ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e24	The called alternate of the Uppland County, Synnøve Branden Klemetrud, has taken the seat. The representative, Mr S. Woldseth, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e32	I would like to promote, on behalf of Mrs Knudsen, and myself, a proposal for a representative on the reorganisation of the Norwegian National Broadcasting and the winding-up of the television licence system. [[NRC]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e37	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e61	On Monday, the Storting received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following government councils will meet for oral Question Time: State Council Helen Bjørnø State Council Erik SolheimState Council Helga Pedersen The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, would like to ask questions of substance. – We then start with the first main questions, from the representative Erna Solberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e80	I would like to ask the Minister for Fisheries a question. In the Fisheries Bulletin, the fishing industry is characterised by the state budget presented as a disaster budget for the fishing industry. It comes at the top of a number of other proposals and regulations that have been put in place by the Minister for Fisheries and which have been tried at speed. At present, the description of the work of the Minister for Fisheries is a Minister for Fisheries who is currently in conflict with all parts of the fishing industry. We have a fishing industry all over the coast and far up in North Norway that has met where the prices of the previous fisheries minister's fisheries policy are significantly better than that of today's fisheries minister, despite the fact that they have been sceptical about it in the past. These are regulations that are out of delivery obligations that will help fishermen to get worse terms and less paid, and that even the industry that is to receive these deliveries does not want. There are proposals in the State budget for a NOx tax that will result in the fact that the part of the fleet that does not have delivery obligations in Norway will find it more profitable to deliver abroad rather than deliver in Norway. There are structural proposals that are both proposed retrospectively and will turn parts of the Norwegian fishing industry, which are currently profitable, into a subsidy industry again. In the election campaign, the Minister for Fisheries claimed that she was to provide more light in the houses along the coast. Now an overall fishing industry says that the Minister for Fisheries is turning off more lights in the houses. What does the Minister for Fisheries intend to do with this?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e92	Under the previous government, the coast experienced a wave of bankruptcy in large areas. The result was unemployment and depopulation in many fisheries-dependent communities. The three parties currently in government therefore announced a new fisheries policy to reverse this trend. We announced in the election campaign last year and in the Soria Moria declaration that we wanted a fisheries policy with a stronger social perspective where we are to take care of both the fleet, the rural industry and, in particular, the others living in local communities along the coast, which are totally dependent on fish. The previous government had no influence on the situation that arose on the coast. This government has started work on, among other things: district allowances and the tightening of the universal service regime. We have also carried out a review of structural policies to address the situation facing the coast to meet both challenges and opportunities. As far as structural policy is concerned, I would like to point out that the structural measures implemented in the Norwegian fisheries policy have been a broad cross-policy consensus until the previous government. Then there was a division in that area. So it wasn't this government that made a conflict about it. The fisheries organisations have also said that they want a structural policy with broad legitimacy. It does not have the structural policy that the previous government put forward. In addition to the fisheries policy measures notified and launched by the Government, we also have, among other things, nearly doubled the marine value creation programme. It's an important tool to get more money out per. kilos of fish and thus also safe value creation and employment along the coast. In the case of the NOx tax, the previous government also assessed its implementation. So it was not this government that signed the Gothenburg Protocol that we are now going to follow up.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e108	The previous government did not promote a NOx fee. The Minister should take that on board. Thus, the Minister cannot claim that the previous government has proposed anything. It didn't promote it. But then I want to say that the interesting question is: how was the situation in the fishing industry when this Minister for Fisheries took over? There was a surplus fishing industry, and it was reconstruction in Finland after the bankruptcy in 2002, which was primarily a result of the policies of former governments. We were back in a situation where the industry was satisfied, and where the agriculture was satisfied, where it was rebuilt, and where, among other things. Aker Seafood clearly said that it was because of the policy of the previous government that they returned to Finnmark. Last Tuesday I was in Henningsvær on fisheries policy debate. There the former Minister for Fisheries from the Central Party rises and says that this is the policy we are in line with the Labour Party and the Central Party in government, that it is the fisheries policy that actually contributes to profitability, and that is the fisheries policy that should be pursued. That is the attitude of the entire fishing industry along the coast. Will the Council of State review its actions? Or is she locked up in her own old rhetoric that doesn't match reality?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e120	Thus, with regard to the follow-up to Norway’s commitments under the Gothenburg Protocol, the Bondevik I Government signed that Protocol in 1999. The size decided unanimously to ratify the protocol in 2000. It is quite right, as the representative Solberg said, that the previous government did nothing to follow up those commitments. But the previous government said that, among other things, would consider a NOx fee in order to follow up the protocol. Its longer period of time, the more urgent it is to have measures put in place to ensure that our commitments come into effect. That is why we are introducing a NOx tax. But when that is said, the final design of the charging scheme is not yet determined. The Minister of Finance has said that she wants a dialogue with the industry to put it into practice. We've totaled 275 million. kr to NOx mitigation measures. That means the fleet can get up to 100 pst. grants for measures to reduce NOx emissions. It is measures that benefit the fishing industry in the long term because the whole fishing industry is served with a good marine environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e139	The President will ask you to respect the speaking time. It's cracked at almost all of the articles here now. There will be follow-up questions – first Ivar Kristiansen.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e144	It's a very hard piece to blame for the previous government. When it is permitted to present a NOx bill for the Norwegian fishing industry of about 400 million. kr, you know that those who are best placed to write applications can at best get a refund of 75 million. kr. There is a direct call from today's government to the Norwegian fishing industry to land their catches abroad. And when the fishing industry confirms that as much as 1 million. tonnes of fish from Norway can be delivered abroad as a result of the Government’s proposal, i.e. 1 million. tonne, worth DKK 4 billion – is there any reason to ask someone who was supposed to be the light changer in the election campaign: how is it possible in one year to become known as probably the largest light switch that has ever visited the Ministry of Fisheries?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e154	I just want to repeat that we have set of 275 million. kr for grants, where the fleet may receive up to 100 pst. in support of the introduction of NOx mitigation measures. In the case of a landing abroad, it will depend on how the charging scheme is designed. That proposal by the Ministry of Finance will soon be put to the hearing, and everyone in the industry will have the opportunity to make their views known. So I just want to encourage everyone who has opinions about it to make their input. I must also say that I am not familiar with the description given by the representatives from the Right of the situation in the Norwegian fishing industry today. It's good profitability in large parts of the fleet. We have had high salmon prices for a long time now, and we are setting a new export record this year as well. In many of the communities that have worn off in recent years, there is now a growing optimism, not least in the context of the new fisheries policy measures announced by the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e167	Øyvind Korsberg – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e170	Norwegian fishing industry is exposed to competition, encounters barriers to trade and experiences large illegal fishing. Other industries in Norway, such as the petroleum industry, receive tax incentives for development. For example, the shipping industry has: net wages and salaries scheme, power-intensive industry has power agreements. The Norwegian fishing industry is faced with demands, charges, impositions, regulation, tightening, universality, etc. My question to the Council of State is this: Will the Council of State provide Norwegian fishing industry with better framework conditions in line with what the industry itself wants and has asked for a long time? Or is the Soria Moria Declaration the main tool of the Government in the area of Norwegian fisheries policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e177	With regard to the discussion on net wages and salaries, I consider it too little topical that the fishing fleet should be included in a net pay scheme, because Norwegian fishing fleets do not compete with other countries in terms of recruiting crews. One fishes on an exclusive resource, so that Norwegian fishing industry is in a different situation from Norwegian shipping. That being said, I recognise that the fishing fleet has problems recruiting crews in the situation we have in many industries today. That is why I have asked the Fiskerlage to make representations to the Government as to what measures they see can be implemented in addition to a net pay scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e184	Sigmund Kroslid – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e187	The council claimed that she did not recognize herself in the reality description given by this pulpit. In the Agder regional newspaper on 18 October, it is a big announcement that the ‘Monsun’ shrimp trawler must be sold in frustration and protest in connection with the fees. I quote what the owner says: ‘There is frustration behind the decision on the sale of the vessel. The authorities make it too difficult for us fishermen. They're skinning us with their fees." Furthermore, I can stress that, for example: in Denmark, the fees for ship control, radio control and the trade mark register are zero, while in Norway there is NOK 50000 for such a ship. Won't the Council of State take reality on board?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e199	Again, I would like to show that the design of the NOx charging scheme is to be sent to the hearing. There is no indication at all that it will have the dramatic consequences for individual vessels that the representative here suggests.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e207	Leif Helge Kongshaug – last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e210	The profitability, stability, predictability and development of a modern, forward-looking fleet that attracts young people are key fisheries policy objectives. As late as spring 2003, there was a broad majority in this structural policy room in the fishing fleet – including the Workers' Party. The Council of State says that Norwegian fishing industry is doing well. Yes, it does, precisely because it is the old fisheries policy that is still in force. But it spreads uncertainty. Only in the last two months or three months, there have been three out-of-court hearings. In the case of district quotas, in the case of universal service obligations, and in the case of structural instruments. It is important that there is no uncertainty about the framework conditions. An increasing level of detail management of the instruments will reduce the value creation of the fishing industry. Does the Council share the concern that ever more detailed regulations and changes in framework conditions can reduce value creation in such an important industry as the fishing industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e219	Firstly, I would like to refute the fact that there was a broad majority behind the structural policy adopted in 2003. In fact, both the SV and the Senterpartie voted against the structural quota system for the coastal fleet. The Labour Party voted in favour, but then assuming that there was a time limit of ten years. This means that the broad consensus on structural policy up to 2003 disappeared that year. Since then, there has been concern and debate on structural policy in Norway. This is why the Government has said that it wants a broad review of structural policy. We have now had this through the Structural Committee and through a broad consultation round that we are now going through. This should be considered very carefully before we conclude on how the structural policy of the future should be. It was not just joy and fun when the previous Minister for Fisheries traveled around and presented the government's fisheries policy either. There was a great debate and many protests from local communities around Norway against the fisheries policy that was then being pursued.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e228	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e231	In the last year, we've seen the greatest political slide in a government ever. From requiring full cleaning of all new gas power plants from day one, the Government has set itself on a line where it will build gas power plants now and clean in the future. This is undoubtedly a solid achievement for the Council of State, but it is a very sensible solution for Mongstad. It delights a progressive party heart when, in fact, the Government eventually falls to the position that the Progress Party has taken up in this Chamber during this year. Now we get state responsibility for the CO2 value chain. Mongstad is being built, and a cleaner when the technology is available and profitable. If it had been adopted when the Progress Party promoted it in the Stortinge in ours, we would have avoided the debate and uncertainty that now exists. The critical thing is that the government has spent a year figuring out what they really think about gas power plants. It has created uncertainty and unforeseeability for the energy industry, which means that a number of projects are not being implemented today, because they do not know what framework conditions they have to deal with. Particularly serious is the case in More and Romesdal — the state of Norway that is at risk of entering a power crisis first. There they have a number of projects that can help solve this and prevent the crisis from being long-term. The problem for these projects is that the largest ones are based on gas. One has gas power plants on Fräna, and one has gas power plants on the Tent Goods. Those who work with the Tent Credit project, which is to realize a gas power plant with CO2 cleaning and a value chain by 2012 – i.e. two years before Mongstad – are now uncertain about the government's boast that Mongstad will be the first, in 2014, means that the Tent Credit will be down-prioritized. That is why I am asking the Minister for the Environment to confirm that the "Tjeldbergod" will have the same framework conditions as a sheep in Mongstad?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e247	At first, I would like to express my joy at the fact that the Progress Party agrees with the Government's CO2 management arrangements at Mongstad. It also means that I expect the Progress Party to fully conclude the agreement that is now in place, that we will have a full scale CO2 treatment plant in place in 2014. In the debate that has taken place, I think it may seem that there have been some other tones from the Progress Party in that area. With regard to the Teldembergodden, the Soria Moria Government has established that it will contribute through economic instruments and through the deployment of new technologies to ensure that we have clean-up and CO2 management in place. Then we're working on putting in place the whole power production plan in Central Norway, and some of what the government is doing is just working on framework conditions for different types of power generation. When one looks at the entire package, the Government will state which requirements and framework conditions will be used for the different projects. In the case of the Mongstad gas power plant, Statoil and Shell have been working on it and given some signals that they want a slightly changed arrangement. What is my responsibility is emissions permit, and I will come back to that when Statoil and Shell have submitted their final application. It is too early to say anything about the conclusions before a final application is made.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e267	It should be the Progress Party which congratulated the SV on finally falling to a reasonable position, in line with the proposals made by the Progress Party on the Stortinget, and which the SV in this Chamber then voted against. But we can share the joy of it. The Progress Party will respect the agreement that has been concluded, but I also record that the Government itself has filed a back door, where they can waive the agreement before an investment decision is concluded in 2012. We respect the agreement that is in place. But I'm still asking the Council of State to answer the question, and it's going on with the principal approaches to other projects in Norway. Will other gas power plant projects in Norway have the same basic framework conditions as those in Mongstad, or does the Government actually propose to discriminate against the same type of industry in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e274	First, I want to strengthen what the Progress Party now says they will respect the agreement. It's sensational very important. It is a very binding agreement that we have now reached, which means that Norway can become historic by giving us CO2 management. We got the agreement where we decided that clean-up will take place from 2014. Until then, there are many stop points in the agreement, which also means that it will reach the Stortinget. I now expect the Progress Party to take advantage of the opportunity to highlight its support in Stortinget when the agreement arrives. I'm very happy about that. As regards the Tent Credit, all these different gas power stations have different arrangements, different systems, and therefore different responses are required from the specific applications that will be available. That's why I can't say anything more than what I said today.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e284	There will be follow-up questions – first Tord Lien.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e287	I hear the Council of State says the Government is working on measures. Then it is worth pointing out that there is massive resistance to wind power expansion in both the Moors and the Romsdals as well as in the tround layers. Most of the rivers in the area are protected, and gas power is the only solution. The Minister for the Environment stated to NTB on 18 July 2006 that climate challenges overshadow the energy crisis in Central Norway. She also states that polluting gas power plants are completely out of date as a solution to the problem. I do not feel that the Council of State is clear enough in its answers to the questions. I once again affirm that gas power is the only solution to the power crisis in Central Norway in the next three to four years. I ask again: will the Council of State ensure that conditions are given to the Tent Goods, which enable you to build a gas power plant in central Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e296	I would like to reiterate that the further treatment of the Tent Credits and applications for emission permits, which are my responsibility, and the other areas that lie under other governments, must be seen in the light of the fact that the Government has established that, through economic instruments and investment in new technologies, we will ensure that new gas power plant concessions involve CO2 clean-up. With regard to concrete applications for the specific projects, we must therefore come back to this when the final plans are available. Just in the case of the Celestial Goods, we have to get back to it when Statoil and Shell have concluded what kind of value chain they want to provide.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e306	Ivar Kristiansen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e309	Of course, when the Council of State gives different answers, you can wonder whether SV has different environmental principles in its policies, depending on where you are in the country. When you clearly say no to a solution to the Celestial Goods, you also clearly say no to solve the power crisis in that part of the country where the crisis is actually the largest. When the Council of State here determines that the Department is working on the matter to resolve the crisis, the Council of State must be able to provide at least a useful response to what kind of backup you actually have in the department. Then the natural question is: is there any backup at all that can make consumers and businesses in central Norway breathe something easier than what they are doing today?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e316	As regards the power situation in central Norway, the government is working hard on this matter. My main concern in terms of future energy supply and use of energy in the future is to ensure the environmental aspect through integrated development, and to focus on both energy efficiency improvement, new renewable energy and gas power with CO2 management. It is the prime responsibility of the Minister for the Environment and the Minister for the Environment. We're working on this, we're doing well, and I have to say that I think we've done a lot. It is particularly sensational that we have reached this agreement with Statoil linked to Mongstad, which will have a major impact on future production in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e324	Line Henriette Holten Heimdal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e327	I have listened to what has been said, and we have witnessed a touching embrace between the SV and the Progress Party. But what is alarming is that the Council of State cannot confirm that there should be cleaning from day one on the Tent Goods. The Soria Moria statement states that new concessions should be based on CO2 cleaning and SV has sold this as a clean-up from day one. But if you look a little bit at what's going on, we'll get a clean-up at Kårstø from year two and at Mongstad cleaning from year four, and the council has not today been able to confirm that there will be a clean-up from day one in terms of the Tent Credit. What confidence should we have that it is the Soria Moria declaration that applies, what is written, and not what we see through real decisions?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e338	I can assure the representative of the Christian People's Party that the Soria Moria Declaration applies. The Soria Moria Declaration states that new concessions should be based on CO2 management. Then we and I have said many times – and I am absolutely sure that the whole Storting is behind – that we want CO2 management as early as possible. No one here wants it to take a long time. We have reached an agreement with Mongstad that is as early as possible. I am absolutely sure that when we look afterwards at what this government is delivering on CO2 management, we will see that it is forward-looking, it is environmentally friendly, and so we are taking some steps that no other government has ever dared – from great words and piety wants us to reach a policy that is practical, that is concrete and that meets our visions and wishes.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e354	Gunnar Kvassheim – to the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e357	The Minister for the Environment says today that one has achieved sensational results in energy policy. The most sensational thing is that today an SV State Council stands here and is excited to be praised by the Progress Party, especially on the basis that the Progress Party has stood firm all the way, while SV has turned its back on this policy. The government gives a wide range of signals as to what it will do in relation to the various gas power projects currently involved. On Kårstø it is to be cleaned in 2009, the Tent Goods possibly in 2012, while one is wildly excited that one might be able to clean Mongstad in 2014. There are so different signals from the Government in relation to the different projects that there could be reason to ask the Government to present a big message coordinating the Government's policy in terms of gas power, CO2 cleaning and CO2 management, so that one could see the projects as a whole and get a picture of how the Government thinks about this area. Does the Council of State think it is a good idea to present such a big message?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e372	It is quite right, as the representative Kvassheim says, that there are different plans for the different gas power plants – Kårstø in 2009, Mongstad in 2014 and the Tjeldbergodden, where Statoil and Shell have made their plans. That's absolutely right, because here we're talking about different technologies, and we're talking about different assumptions when we're going to apply the technology. It would be directly naive to think that one in different places with different technologies, different sizes, should arrive at exactly the same month and year. It's precisely because we're going from the airy vision to doing what the majority of Stortinget wants and what the Soria Moria statement says we're going to get to CO2 management. It is because we go from the big words of the air to the concrete actions, that the conclusions are different.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e382	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e385	My question goes to the Minister for Fisheries. The red-green government has benefited from some of the revenue from the budget cut in higher education, research efforts, TaxFUNN and individual pension savings to increase the level of net pay. And we are glad that the framework conditions are better for Hurtigruta. However, the Minister of Fisheries has already confirmed that for the whole of the fishing industry, and especially for the sea-going fishing fleet, it is creating ever more extensive net pay arrangements, which create unfair competition conditions in the fight for labour. This is not a new situation. In the last year, the birth rate of fishing industries has been clear and clear. They say that they are constantly moving backwards in the competition for labour. It'll be harder and harder to keep good fish. The industry feels forgotten by the Government. This applies to one of Norway's most important industries, both in value creation and in coastal employment. The government's greeting to this industry in the present budget proposal is increasing taxes and taxes, defined as more taxes on those who already have the most. Both growth and government demand responses to the question of whether this government actually has a fisheries policy. What time will the Minister for Fisheries open the package of wonder and show his fisheries policy? Fishing industry has not asked for additional transfers, but they have been, and they are, clearly that the increasingly worsening competitive situation makes it harder and harder to hold good fishermen. In a short time, this can actually have major, serious consequences for an important industry. The Minister of Fisheries said earlier today that she has asked the Fisheries Team for advice. That's okay enough, but not very offensive. So my specific question to the Minister for Fisheries is: What does the Council of State intend to do with this situation and with this negative development?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e400	I would like to stress that there are several ways of improving the recruitment of the fishing industry rather than introducing a net pay scheme. There I have asked that the industry itself make their contributions to the Government. Among other things, we have has had a sample of work that has looked at concrete measures to improve recruitment and which the Ministry is now looking at. Then I would like to reject the fact that the Government does not have an active fisheries policy. We have that to the greatest extent, and it also bears the mark of the 2007 government budget proposal. I would like, among other things: refer to the strong strengthening we have of the marine value creation programme, which will help us to get more out of the resources we have, and not least that for the second consecutive year, we are strengthening the effort against illegal fishing in the Barents Sea – where I must be allowed to say that the previous government might have a lower profile than you could expect. The illegal fishing in the Barents Sea represents a loss of approx. NOK 1.5 billion for the Norwegian and Russian fishing industries. If we can't deal with it, in one way all the other fisheries policy debates are a little subordinated, to take care of and ensure sustainable management is the foundation of everything we do.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e407	I would first like to thank you for your answer. But I'm not entirely satisfied with it, because I haven't yet completely caught up with the Government's fisheries policy – it can be my fault, of course, but I believe the same liability for the fishing industry – because what is described by the industry itself is that there is a completely impossible competitive situation. The fishing industry has at least one hand at the bottom of its back. They are not asking for new transfers, but they are asking for a level playing field, for if developments continue, there may be serious consequences with a strong reduction in a competent and highly emerging fishing fleet. It's a development that I don't really want. As this is not a new situation, I repeat the question: does the Council of State see the seriousness of this situation, and does it intend to do something about it on her own and not just wait for advice from the Fiskers team?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e414	I do not share the representative's basis for the question, because the fact is that Norwegian fishing industry is doing very well today. It's not a crisis-related industry. That being said, we know that very many communities along the coast are struggling and have been doing it for many years. That is why this government will implement a fisheries policy which will also safeguard coastal fishing-dependent communities. We're going to provide a profitable fleet and a profitable industry, but in addition, we're going to have a social perspective.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e419	There will be follow-up questions – first Bjørg Tørersdal.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e422	I fear that there are few fishing industries that have been directly reassured by the Minister for Fisheries' response, because Norway has a problem that there are other parts of industrial policy and tax policy that help to create recruitment problems for the fishing industry. Even earlier this year — and she has repeated it today — the Council of State has said that the Department will do an investigative work in the field of recruitment. I do not know how far this work has come, but I will challenge the Council of State for exactly this with recruitment. Is it so that the Council of State agrees that discrimination between the different marine industries is a possible source of loss of the fishing industry in the competition for stable labour? And: What concrete measures to strengthen the recruitment of the fishing industry have this investigation in the department led to so far?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e430	Firstly, I would like to show that the previous government increased a number of charges for our fleet. The previous government and the Bondevik I government must also take responsibility for the fact that we now have a NOx fee, because it was actually the Bondevik I government that signed the Gothenburg Protocol, where we assumed the obligations we are now to comply with. In the case of recruitment, we need to look at several measures, including: education and the measures that we have asked the industry to take, and not least, it is important that everyone contributes to creating a positive picture of the fishing industry and of being a fisherman. It's actually the fact that today's fleet is going well, and we have to be good at stressing it, so it'll be tempting for young people to apply to this industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e440	Øyvind Korsberg – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e443	On my question rather than on the general framework conditions for the fishing industry, the Council of State replied that it was not appropriate to introduce a net pay scheme. That is also an answer. A year ago – at this time – I asked the same question about the net pay scheme for Hurtigruta. We repeated that in the revision, and so it was not appropriate to introduce a net pay scheme. Fortunately, the Government has now followed the Progress Party in that area and partially introduced the Net Pay Scheme for Hurtigruta. We think that's good. But the Council of State also said in her reply to me that she wanted input from the industry to improve the framework conditions. I must say that I am amazed that the Council of State has not received the recordings that have been made, because the Norwegian Fisheries Team has reported that the fishing deduction is increased to NOK 150 000. So it's been a long time before the state budget was presented. My question to the Council of State: is it such that one excludes doing anything about the framework conditions out of this enlargement period, or comes back in the context of the revised budget to next year?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e452	With regard to the proposal we have received from the Fiskarlage – and we will probably also have more proposals – there is something we will consider in the Ministry and in the Government and possibly come back to. But I cannot go into measures here and now that may be relevant to the budgets in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e457	Torbjørn Hansen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e460	I would like to ask the Minister for Fisheries follow-up questions. In fact, I find it disappointing and quite serious that the Minister for Fisheries does not have any relevant answers or measures in relation to the situation of the recruitment of the fishing fleet. The pressure from shipping, which has almost NOK 170 000 in net pay arrangements per year. employed and significant profitability is a policy-driven issue, and the Government reinforces the problem by providing the Net Pay Scheme for Hurtigruta now in the budget. At the same time, the Ship Register Code requires the offshore industry to recruit only Norwegian crew. This is an industry that will acquire 70–80 new vessels and recruit several thousand employees in the next few years. So this problem will increase sharply in the future. Is it not then possible to look at the possibility of opening up to the offshore fleet to also be able to use competent foreign labour by changing the operating range restriction in the NIS register? This will, of course, ease the pressure on the fishing industry. At the same time, growth in this industry is so high that anyone qualified for it will have a job in the offshore industry in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e469	It is now the case that the net pay system for shipping is in place to ensure that part of the economy has a level playing field with the rest of the world. The fishing industry is not in the same situation, for the Norwegian fishing fleet has an exclusive right to fish on our fishing resources. Therefore, we need to look at measures other than a net pay scheme. In the case of the offshore fleet, the Government has no plans to modify its terms.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e476	Leif Helge Kongshaug – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e479	I record that the Council of State repeats that it is very good in the Norwegian fishing industry, and I share that view. This is because there are many skilled people in the industry, but it is also due to the optimism that the fisheries policy of the Bondevik Government has led to. However, parts of the fishing industry are under severe pressure. The coastal fishing fleet in particular has suffered from poor profitability, bankruptcy, flight and recruitment. And as we have heard here, the struggle for the labour force is hard in the industry. My claim is that the industry must be able to meet the challenges and have as much equal competitive conditions as possible with others. The supply industry, the oil industry and now also the fast-track companies have a net wage system. This is very confusing with regard to recruitment. What is now also being introduced is a NOx tax, which leads to costs for some fishing boat owners of up to 5 million. kr. Can the Council of State assess whether any introduction of the NOx tax and the country concerned can go back to the fishing industry unabated, possibly through a fund, in order to strengthen various measures for recruitment to the industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e494	With regard to the NOx tax and the proposal for a fund, it is that if we set up a fund, it will not give more money back. We've spent 75 million. DKK in the 2007 state budget for the grant of NOx reduction measures. So in addition, we have commitment powers of 200 million. kr. That is what we have seen that the fleet needs subsidies for NOx mitigation measures. If there is a need for more money, we should of course assess it, but if the money comes through the state budget in that way or through a fund, I cannot quite see the big difference. Anyway, the point is that the fleet gets up to 100 pst. in grants to reduce their NOx emissions. It serves both the fleet and the environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e513	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e517	I have a question for the Minister for the Environment. The government is favored with record revenue. That means you can spend more money for a lot of good purposes, and that's good. This also means that many of the trade budgets in this year’s government budget are significantly strengthened. The Ministry of the Environment's budget is in stark contrast to this, where it is cut in line with the level of the year. This means that there will be less environmental work, and I can't see how this harmonizes with the government's stated objective of Norway being a leading country in environmental policy. Collective action in other budgets is important, but much of the environmental work depends on the Ministry of the Environment's budget being in such a constitution that it can increase its commitment. Instead of increasing bets, the appropriations for forest protection — one of the main measures to save endangered species of animals and plants — cut. fjords and harbour areas throughout the country are contaminated by environmental pollutants. The government has announced an offensive. Instead, you cut one in the appropriations. There has been a stepping-up of money support for cultural memory. The escalation that has created optimism ends with the year's budget. As regards the follow-up to environmental work related to the management plan, no increased effort is being made to obtain an image of environmental interests in the areas on which we are to discuss whether to use for petroleum activity or to be protected. Once again, the oil has won over the environment in the budget. My question to the Minister for the Environment is: What is the reason why the Government's ambition to be an environmental priority is not traceable in the Ministry of the Environment's budget? Does the Council share the strong desire of many environmental organisations to increase the budget of the Ministry of the Environment in the course of the Stortinge?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e530	The budget that has been presented is the most ambitious environmental budget that some government has ever presented. What we've managed to achieve, and what I'm most proud of, is that in the field of field, we see that the environment is being raised high. The environment and assistance has increased by 350 million. kr. We have between 700 million. And 800 million. kr for CO2 handling. We have a huge commitment on the railways, and we have a shift in tax policy in a more environmentally friendly direction, to mention some of these areas. I am quite sure that we are going to raise Norway as an environmental nation, and if we are going to return to Norway as an environmental nation, we need to put in place a policy that will allow the environmental perspective to permeate all sectors of society. There we have managed to do the first step in this budget. So it's absolutely right that if a reader is 100%, the Ministry of the Environment's budget goes down a few percent. But those who are aware of reading the budget, those who can and understand the budget layout, will just see that the reduction is largely due to technical changes. There are three main reasons for this: one is that the environmental measures at the Nickle plant in Kola are at risk. Therefore, the appropriations for the 2006 budget have not been continued in 2007. The other one is that the wreckage of cars has gone over to the industry itself. And the third is that the rewards of new fund capital in the cultural memory fund are reduced. These three areas are the main reason why the percentage goes down. But if you take away these technical changes, there's an actual increase of 6 pst. in the budget of the year.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e546	Thanks for the answer. If we peel off all the techniques, we are left with the harsh realities, and they are that the Ministry of the Environment has got a weak budget – so weak that Nature and Youth sent out a press release with the headline: Bjørnøy became a budget loser. It is related to what I said in my question: It is cut on forest protection, and it is cut on measures for toxin cleaning, etc. It is an eye-catching idea that the Minister for the Environment has come to mind, that if one increases public transport efforts or takes the climate challenges seriously and does something about CO2 clean-up, then one must expect the Ministry of the Environment to be cut off. Does this mean that if the efforts of public transport and CO2 treatment in Mongstad are to be stepped up further, it is to be expected that the Ministry of the Environment's budget will be further reduced, with the consequences it has for classical environmental work, which I have pointed out?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e561	Now we're not going to have a big budget debate here today, but I would like to say that the presentation made by the representative Kvassheim is wrong. The Ministry of the Environment’s budget — removing the technical adjustment, which I tried to explain — represents an increase of 6 pst. So that means that we have an increase in the central parts of the activity. It's about forest protection, it's about conservation of the protected area, it's about strengthening biodiversity, and it's about increasing environmental exposure. So, of course, I'm the first to want even more money and an even bigger bet in many of our areas. What the government has done is take the first step in a new direction, for a new environmental policy. So then we have years ahead of us where we're going to reinforce this direction. We're going to take clearer steps, and we're going to go back to Norway, because the environment has been a neglected area of the Bondevik II government.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e566	There will be follow-up questions – first Odd Einar Dørum.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e569	Governments are enthusiastic about aspects of the Government's environmental policy. This was also the case in Stortinget a year and a half ago when the cultural memory message was processed. Then it was a thrill that this part of our identity should now be given a chance. One was happy to have a escalation, and there was optimism among all the firemen involved, when the Bondevik II government introduced it into the budget for the current year – and was followed up by the government in which the council of Bjørnøy sits – to strengthen it by 35 million. kr. It was perceived that you were well on the way, and the fires in the field began to rejoice. They've been used to curfews to take care of some of the things that give us our identity: cultural memories. Then came the budget of the year, and they experience a cold shower when they see it, because the escalation is at 5 million. kr – very little in substance – and they then ask themselves the question, to which I would like to join clearly: Is this lack of money due to the Ministry of the Environment's budget, or is it simply because it was not worth prioritizing within the broad environmental effort that the Council of State has been talking about to the representative of Kvassheim?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e576	The escalating plan of the Cultural Memory Fund shall be maintained and implemented by the Government. So in our 2007 budget proposal, we have set at 200 million. kr to that fund. It is true that it is weaker than many would have liked, but I am going to assure the representative Dørum that the objective is firm and the escalation will happen.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e581	Børge Brende – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e584	In many of our fjords, there's a lot of pollution. It's ancient PCBs that lead to dietary restrictions. In other words, people cannot eat fish and shellfish caught there. Over the course of many years, we have had a good cooperation in Stortinget to step up the efforts to clean up these fjords. In 2001, we spent 22 million. NOK 64 million was spent in 2005. kr – a triple. There was also good cooperation between SV and Right for four years to step up the efforts to clean up old environmental sins. That's why I was very surprised when I saw this year's environmental budget, where the Environment Minister cuts $6 million. kr this year in relation to last year's bet on cleaning up old environmental sins in the fjords. I wonder if the Council of State can give us an answer as to what is the technical reason why this year you choose to spend $6 million. kr less for cleaning than the previous year.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e591	I'm glad we get a little focus on environmental toxins and the need to clean up both in fjords and in land. It's a huge challenge we have, and we follow very closely both in the evolution of many of the fjords and basically. As I have also said in Stortinget before, we will be delivering a big message on pollutants this fall, where we are just focusing on these areas. With regard to the technical justification requested by the representative, there are several reasons why we are following this plan. One is that we need to do a good job in order to take the necessary action. The second is that in some fjords there is simply uncertainty about how the poison comes from, and it is difficult to start cleaning up before localising the sources of emissions. There has to be consistency in the work you're actually doing, so that we can get a good result.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e600	Ketil Solvik-Olsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e604	Today we experience the government of the great words. The answers show that the Environment Minister is still in the fog shelter at Soria Moria. Had there been fog power plants in this country, the power crisis would have been solved. But it's not that easy. What you observe is that we have a messy and unpredictable environmental policy. We have heard today that we are talking about Mongstad in 2014 as the major breakthrough, although everyone knows that the Tent Credit has visions and plans for 2012, and there are no technology differences. There is not one penny to Mongstad in the state budget for this year, although the government has promised to start immediately. In the case of NOX, it can be seen that the Government will destroy the fishing fleet in order to reduce NOX emissions. At the same time, they come up with a policy that means we get more diesel cars and more bioenergy that increases NOX emissions. I ask the Council of State to try to be concrete in one area, and it goes on wind power. Several municipalities in Norway have had a referendum on wind power, and several municipalities have said no to wind power for environmental reasons. Now we see in the evening post that the government at the NVE wants to review these referendums because of other things. Can the Council of State assure that referendums on wind power will be observed and respected in the Government?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e624	I don't think there's any fog house that characterizes me, but it's a little bit of happiness right now, because something new has happened in Stortinget. The Progress Party has said loud and clear that they will respect the agreement concluded between the State and Statoil linked to Mongstad. This means that the Progress Party, like the last party, recognises that climate is an important and difficult environmental challenge. Then I want to comment on wind power. What we have done is that we have now sent out to consult guidelines on regional wind energy plans. It is very important that we now get up the good projects for wind power, and that we can put aside those projects that create major conflicts or have devastating effects on the environment, travel life or anything else. We have said that we should invest in wind power, and we are now in the process of developing principles for regional plans.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e631	Line Henriette Holten Heimdal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e634	I record that there is still an embrace from SV in the relationship to the Progress Party. It may be necessary for the SV and the Minister for the Environment to do so. My impression is that there are many hard fights about the environment in the government. That might not be so strange, because there are different forces that need to be combined. But the result of all these struggles is that all disappoint their voters, and all break election vows. In the last few days, we have also had a clear example of that, where representatives from the government parties want to draw the Trillemark into this hall and away from their own government. So it's the new fight for protection I want to focus on. The Christian People's Party believes that we need good coniferous protection. We need a continued offensive protection policy, and we are proud of the work we did in the Bondevik II government. Can the Council of State confirm that the protection plans are coming quickly, that there will be no break, and that this is the new direction, the new grips, that the Council of State has previously talked about in this Chamber?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e643	I can assure you that the security plans are coming as planned. We have protected many areas. During the autumn, the envisaged cases relate to the national park protection. I also want to comment on something that the representative said. These are the discussions within the Government on environmental issues. Of course, there are strong discussions. Of course, there's disagreement in the first place. But the strength of the government is that through discussions and through tough debates, we are able to achieve good results that make an offensive and ambitious environmental policy visible. This is probably not unknown to the Christian People's Party either, which has probably also discussed with its party traps and government traps in the Bondevik II government. The difference between these two governments is that we deliver results.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e650	We're going to go to the next main question. The President will use the specific opportunity he now has to recall one of the prerequisites of the oral questioning, namely that the President should as far as possible ensure that all the Councils are asked. That is why the President will now, as announced, release to Morten Höglund, who is supposed to ask the Minister for Development a question, instead of following the priorities of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e655	Then I will be allowed to ask a question to the Minister for Development. How the world's society deals with humanitarian disasters may be one of the great tests for us. On this basis, the UN has an important and significant role to play. It has recently, and not least through important articles, among other things. Mr. Morten Rostrup, former president of the Army Without Borders, has been addressed in the context of the UN's role. Conflict areas such as Angola and Niger have been mentioned, where the role of the United Nations may not have been the best, but has actually contributed to the non-reduction of human suffering. The UN will continue to strengthen its role in such disasters, coordination and governance. Does not the Council of State not see that there are also some problems involved and that other free agents are almost stopped or prevented from doing important work in the field? Share the Council of States the description of reality that I refer to, and that has also been experienced by, among other things. Doctor Without Borders, and which I also know that other help organizations have experienced?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e662	Morten Höglund is travelling a very important debate. What Rostrup of Doctors Without Borders brought up today is very central, namely that there must exist some organisations, such as Doctor Without Borders or Red Cross, which have access to both sides in a conflict situation, are neutral in relation to opposing parties and are entitled to the humanitarian mandate to help those in need. Even in such a crazy situation as World War II, it was of course helpful that Red Cross also had access to the Hitler side of the conflict. The UN has a different role in many of the most complex situations, such as in Congo, which Morten Höglund drew out, because it is about building a state. There is no real existing state in Congo today. It's a central government, and there's a lot of different kingdoms for different militias. Getting a state out of this requires a very complicated mission, with a mix of military, economic, political and social resources. Only at the sum of these can you succeed. It is incredibly complicated and poses very many difficult questions on the agenda, including: those mentioned by Morten Höglund. If the President allows that, I would also like to say that there is actually a political sensation in these days. Yesterday we heard from the representative, Höglund, that the Progress Party will now review the aid budget. It is incredibly positive and important, because it can contribute to a larger collection of something that is incredibly central to Norwegian policy. Today we were told that the Progress Party is also starting to take the second major international problem seriously. The two major problems we have are poverty and climate. Now when the Progress Party for the first time says that the party is willing to spend hundreds of millions of dollars on taking the climate noise seriously, because it makes no sense to spend hundreds of millions of dollars on cleaning in Mongstad if you don't believe in the climate noise, we're inside the big shift in Norwegian politics, which I'm looking at with considerable joy.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e671	I choose to go back anyway. I thank you for the answer that was given, but as I may not have quite met the challenge with the UN and the more comprehensive role of the United Nations in any disaster. The role of the United Nations and its important role is undisputed, but in many areas the presence of the United Nations is politically sensitive and difficult, and the coordination and governance of the United Nations can actually prevent other organisations from escaping. Will the Government, in its reform work in the United Nations, now ensure that the United Nations, when imposed, withdraws, has a slightly more open approach and accepts that others might be better able to do the humanitarian aid work that the United Nations could otherwise have done, given a different situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e680	I believe the answer to this question is that here you have to have country-specific solutions. There is not one international template that can be put down on any conflict. In some international conflicts, the UN will have to take the overall, governing role, manage its own many organisations – but it is often a difficult task – and then, within that framework, create an overall plan where different non-governmental organisations can also play a role. In other conflicts, the UN is just one of many actors. If you take Darfur as an example, the UN plays a major, overall role there, but Doctors Without Borders are much bigger than most of the UN organizations in Darfur, have a strong, central role and of course must coordinate with the UN. Then there are conflicts like in Sri Lanka, where the UN has no overall role in conflict resolution at all, because the parties have so far not wanted it. So when it comes to the debate on what the United Nations is going to do: they have to manage their special organisations and coordinate them much more than they have now – that is, among other things. One of the things Jens Stoltenberg has addressed in his panel — but elsewhere the UN has to accept being one of many coordinating actors.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e693	There will be follow-up questions – Øyvind Waksdal.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e697	In a policy statement in ours, a number of positive signals came from the Council of State in terms of assistance. He wanted to review Norwegian aid policy, focus on areas where we had competence, and to a greater extent make demands on recipients. It was almost as if the Council of State had read the Progress Party program. Therefore, there was great disappointment when the budget was presented and most of it was the same as before, except for some increase to the UN. Has the Minister for Development now changed his position in the aid policy, or has he not been put through to the Government for his new ideas and ideas?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e704	There I must recommend the Progress Party to read the development budget. All — absolutely all — increases in this development budget go into four and a half main areas. There is a commitment to women, to the environment, to oil and energy, and to what I would call state and peace building. That's the four areas. In addition, we have a special commitment to the vaccine programme, and this is because the Prime Minister has taken on his own, in particular the responsibility to bring this idea out internationally as part of a health effort. So the things I've notified in the Storting, and the things that come into the budget, aren't just almost equal, it's completely identical. There is no one millimetre difference between the size notified and the budget submitted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e711	Erna Solberg – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e714	There are many conflicts and difficult areas where there are also questions about the extent to which international society can participate, because, for example, the UN. is not an organisation that can enter, because it simply does not have a mandate — because of a political situation in the Security Council, for example. There is growing concern that when our emphasis is very strong on the United Nations, we will have less opportunity to deal with some of the conflicts in which the United Nations simply will not give a mandate, and where the United Nations will not coordinate operations because many countries within the United Nations will simply define the situations of internal and internal affairs. Then is my question to the Council of State: As far as work on UN reform is concerned, what is the Government’s strategy in relation to areas where the situation is defined as internal affairs? Some of the greatest humanitarian disasters we see are defined as internal affairs by many countries in the United Nations.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e723	This is a very, very good – and difficult – question. I think there are two important answers to that. One is that a conflict resolution in almost every country is much, much stronger if it is initially based on the actors in the country itself. Nearly never is the good example — perhaps except Bosnia — of the fact that the international community, and the UN, can impose a solution on a country, unless it grows out of historical experience and traditions in society itself. So it's positive if the actors in a country themselves really take responsibility for it. In addition, the UN must coordinate and give mandate and international legitimacy. When we participate in the ISAF force in Afghanistan, that is, among other things. because the UN has legitimised this force and thus granted it the unquestionable international legitimacy that such a force must have. And if I can just mention an emergency in the last few days, the Government of Sudan has said that the UN mission to Sudan, Jan Pronk, is no longer wanted in the country. We, together with the international community, have reacted very strongly to this, because we see it as a response of Sudan's reluctance to the international community's attempt to find a real solution in Darfur and to other difficult problems in Sudan.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e732	Dagfinn Højbråten – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e735	I don't think I'm very wrong when I say that when the minutes from this questionnaire are going to be written, it's most noticeable that the two SV councils present – each in its own way – have embraced the Progress Party. There is a sort of ‘socialist progress party’ alliance that emerges from this questioning. It's a little surprising in the area of aid, but now let it go. I think the Council of State has put forward an offensive aid budget, and has commended it. What I am a little more surprised about is that he is so offensive that he believes that Norwegian standards and values should govern the UN and the UN's efforts in the area of aid. Has he taken a little bit of Møller's tran, like his party leader at a former crossroads, or is it such that he actually believes that small Norway should set the standard for all other contributors to the World Organisation UN?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e742	First of all, a comment on the Advancement Party: it is a fantastic thing, which should delight the Christian People's Party just as much as it enjoys SV, when the Foreign Policy Spokesman of the Advancement Party yesterday tells us that the Advancement Party may have been too little concerned about assistance, had too little policy on it, and now will take some form of self-criticism and look at it again and come out with something new and more constructive. That's really nice. I thought the Christian People's Party was just as happy as we were for it, and also when the Progress Party today announces for the first time – I've never heard it before – that the climate turmoil is a real threat to humanity. If there was no real threat, why should you spend hundreds of millions of dollars on a sewage treatment plant in Mongstad? Then it's throwing the money out of the window. This is a real shift from the Progress Party in the direction of the Christian People's Party and the SV. We should be glad about that! With regard to the latter, I can use abortion as an example of what I mean by Norwegian values and attitudes. Of course, we cannot force any other country to adopt Norwegian attitudes on abortion, but we can address the problem that thousands of women in Africa die every year because of illegal and hopeless abortions, tens of thousands — perhaps hundreds of thousands — are mutilated for life. Then you must not sweep abortion under the carpet, but go into it as a real problem that the UN must work with.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e749	Odd Einar Dørum – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e752	I would like to take this opportunity to continue where the representative Höglund started, and address real dilemmas. He addressed one type of dilemma, the relationship between the United Nations and other relief organizations, where there are difficult conditions. I want to bring up another one, and that's the development I've found and followed with increasing anxiety, that aid work internationally and also UN aid work brings with it such a large and heavy apparatus when you move into a poor country, that you actually almost make a local inflation and cost development that makes – to put it that way – you set a standard that creates a strong distinction between them, you have a chance to manage locally, and those who are going to help them. I am aware that this does not have a simple answer, but I feel there is a need to address it. I feel that the Council of State is curious, so my question goes on: in a situation where we, for example. in Afghanistan, experiencing that the auxiliaries are moving into Kabul, and setting a standard of living that makes it quite difficult to give hope for a good life, I would like to hear the strategy of the Council of State. I think this is an essential question to ask, and this was an invitation to such an occasion.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e759	This is a very important question. In many countries, it is a huge problem that the best cancers are recruited into the UN system and into relief organisations. It's not wrong in itself, but it can take away the local structures from the best people they should have. You set a standard for what's acceptable living standards, where the whites, to call it what's coming in, often have a standard of living that's sky-high above the local middle class, and so you set a crazy standard, and resources are being used incorrectly. A small part of the answer is that the UN must coordinate its resources much more. In many African countries, there are 15–20 – up to 25 – different UN organisations, each with its leader, its budget, its fleet. The more you could get it coordinated, the easier it would be to answer some of these questions. I think we just have to admit that this is a constant dilemma in aid. Therefore, our main concern is to strengthen local structures through local voluntary organisations, not just bringing in Norwegians, and to contribute to strengthening local state formation. It is easiest in countries with limited corruption and with a reasonable degree of democracy, such as Tanzania and Mozambique. We need to do what we can to strengthen local structures rather than overwhelm foreign efforts.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e769	The oral question procedure is now over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e775	There will be a number of changes in the list of questions set out, and the President refers to the overview distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments are proposed for approval. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 4, from the representative Siri A. Meling to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, is postponed until the next Question Time, when the Minister for Foreign Affairs has left. Question 5, from the representative Tord Lien to the Minister for the Environment, is transferred to the Minister for Finance who is directing him. Questions 15, 16 and 20, from Odd Einar Dørum, Jan Arild Ellingsen and Hans Olav Syversen respectively to the Minister of Justice, are postponed to the next Question Time when the Council of State has departed. Question 17, from the representative of Mr Dahl to the Minister for Justice, will be answered by the Minister for Renewal and Administration who will direct him. At the request of the Minister for Renewal and Administration, this question is moved and answered in response to question 28, i.e. at the end of the Questionnaire. Questions 18 and 19, from the representatives of Kari Lise Holmberg and Thore A. Nistad respectively to the Minister of Justice, will be answered by the Minister of Labour and Inclusion on behalf of the Minister of Justice, who has been removed. Questions 21 and 22, from the representatives of Ola T. Lånke and Ivar Kristiansen, respectively, to the Minister for Culture and the Church, are postponed to the next Question Time when the Council of State has departed. Question 27, from the representative Bent Höie to the Minister for Renewal and Administration, has been transferred to the Minister for Labour and Inclusion, who is directly responsible. At the request of the Minister for Labour and Inclusion, this question was moved and answered in response to question 14, to be answered by the same Council of State.In addition, Question 26, from the representative Jan-Henrik Fredriksen to the Minister for Health and Welfare, was raised by the representative Vigdis Giltun.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e802	‘The recent judgment of the European Court of Justice in the Cadbury Schweppes case limits the possibilities of national, divergent tax legislation for foreign-based Norwegian-owned companies, the so-called ‘NOKUS’ rules. The judgment regulates the relationship with EU/EEA legislation. What does the Council of State think this judgment will have in relation to our current NOCUS rules, and what will the Council of State do, if any, to bring the Norwegian legislation into line with the EEA rules?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e809	In order to combat tax avoidance, the United Kingdom has rules on ‘Controlled Foreign Companies’, so-called CFC rules. Under these rules, profits of a foreign subsidiary controlled by the United Kingdom are to be included under certain conditions in the tax base of the parent company resident in the United Kingdom. This applies even if the profits are not transferred as dividends or similar to the parent company. Many EEA countries have similar legislation. One variant is the Norwegian rules on the taxation of Norwegian owners of Norwegian controlled companies, etc. resident in low tax countries, the NOKUS Code. In the Cadbury Schweppes judgment of 12 September 2006, the EC Court of Justice concluded that the UK CFC rules can only be applied if some of the specified conditions are met. It is now necessary for the authorities of all EU/EEA countries with CFC legislation to assess the implications of this case-law for the national CFC rules. The Ministry is in the start-up phase of a broad review of the Norwegian NOCUS rules, where the assessment of the impact of the European Court of Justice’s ruling in this particular case has been given priority. If, after such an assessment, there is a need to amend the applicable law in order to continue to discharge our EEA obligations in this field, the Ministry will return to the Stortinget as soon as possible with proposals for necessary legislative changes.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e820	I thank you for the answer, which shows that the Council of State and the Department are following this up. There are some complications about these things – I shouldn't go too far into the technical things here. Historically, the NOCUS rules have their origins, not in the EU/EEA legislation, but in the tax agreements with the various countries. So here we want -- and we actually have at the moment -- two different sets of rules to deal with. It can't be the case in the future that we have to have one regulation in relation to the United States, maybe another in relation to the EU/EEA. A lot of industries have businesses out there, not least shipping, but also other industries, so the drive on this from the department is probably very, very important for Norwegian business. I want to emphasize, as the Council of State has also said, that it is important that this goes as quickly as possible, even though it is quite complicated.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e829	The representative Fleet is right that this is complicated matters, but I really just want to refer to the answer that I have already given, that we look closely at this judgment, which is the starting point of the representative's question, and will come back to Stortinget as soon as possible with what we think is any necessary changes to the Norwegian law and regulation. For this of course is important for many reasons, but I also see that Norwegian business needs clarification and to know what to do. So I am glad that the representative has addressed this question, and we should have clicked on the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e834	Thank you for your answer!
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e843	‘The operating rule states that the use of oil and gas revenues over time shall correspond to the real return of the State pension fund — Foreign, estimated at 4 pst. The state of Alaska in the United States also has an oil fund. The average real return on Alaska's fund has been 8 pst. Does the Council of State believe that if the average real return on the State pension fund had been higher, would the rule of action be equivalent to higher, or does the real return have nothing to do with the rule of action?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e850	The principle of action is that there is a plan for a steady and gradual increase in the use of oil revenues from the State budget. When the government of Stoltenberg I presented the budgetary guidelines in St.meld. No 29 for 2000-2001, it underlined that the assessment of the speed with which petroleum revenues are to be incorporated into the Norwegian economy must be based on a multi-stakeholder approach. I thought I'd go through what was the starting point of making these rules. 1st@item: inlistbox The fact that public services are developing smoothly suggests, in isolation, that the use of oil revenues has been stalled for the next two decades. The savings in oil revenues can then be used to cover increased future costs arising from an ageing population. This is a challenge facing all Western countries both in the pension rights that an ageing population will have, and also in the service provision that will become necessary as the population grows older.2. The aim of achieving a stable economic development over time is to move towards a relatively even phase-in of oil revenues. The more the use of petroleum revenues increases in the next decade, the greater the need for action to be taken at a later stage to strengthen public budgets in order to achieve a smooth development in the provision of services. This is related to the first consideration.3. Considerable emphasis must be placed on the competitive sector. Increased use of oil revenues could increase activity in the economy. In a situation of high capacity utilisation, which we now have, this could lead to a weakening of the competitive economy. After all, we experienced this precisely in the period 2002–2003, because the krone price increased so clearly.4. The uncertainty about future oil revenues — we see that oil revenues are changing and vary widely. There is no guarantee that they will keep the same high level in the future, which means that a high level of caution is required in use.5. One should not base economic policy on an ever higher level of taxation. The rule of action says that we should use the expected real return on the capital of the State pension fund – abroad. So it's estimated at 4 pst, which Tybring-Gjedde is involved in his question. The actual annual real return on the capital of the State pension fund – abroad has varied significantly over time, from minus 6.6 pst. in 2002 to plus 11 pst. in 2003. For the period from the first quarter of 1997 to the second quarter of 2006, overall, Norway’s Bank has calculated the average annual real return on the State pension fund – Foreign to 4.1 pst. The return is measured in foreign currency, which is the relevant measure of return when measuring the development of the fund’s international purchasing power. For the past five years, Alaska’s Permanent Fund has had a higher return on capital than the State pension fund – Foreign. The difference is due to different asset class and regional compositions, i.e. currency exposure. Among other things, Alaska’s Permanent Fund has a higher share exposure than the Norwegian pension fund has. The fund is also invested in property. In the last five years, this has given a good count. If we had compared other periods of time, the picture could look different. The governance of the Alaska Permanent Fund is itself based on a significantly lower rate of return in the years ahead than has been achieved in the last five years. The significant uncertainty associated with the return on international financial markets suggests that, over the years to come, we also have to rely on large variations in annual fund yields. This uncertainty means that the fund return could deviate from 4 pst. over several years without itself suggesting that the estimate should be amended. The estimate of expected returns must be based on sound assessments of normal return over a longer period of time in the asset classes in which the fund is invested.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e883	I thank the Council of State for the answer, and have been confirmed that the rule of action has nothing to do with real returns, but it's the estimate, and the estimate has nothing to do with real returns either, because it varies from minus to plus, a lot of percent. So it's a word game. Last year, the Government, not least the Minister of Finance, strongly argued that we could not spend more on the current year’s budget — that is, the 2006 budget — than exactly the amount proposed by the Government itself. The background for this was that further use of oil money would lead to increased inflation, higher interest rates, price pressure and closure of competitive enterprises. In the 2007 budget, the Government proposes to spend far more billions than in the 2006 budget. So the question is, what are the pressure-reducing circumstances that have occurred in 2006? Or in other words, why not increase in the use of oil money in 2007 have consequences for inflation, interest rates and interest rates similar to what the Government itself considered to be the consequences of increased oil money consumption in the current year? I'm looking for the pressure-reducing circumstances that have occurred in 2006.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e890	First, the government has never hidden that 4 pst. is the expected return, i.e. an estimate. It's not a game of numbers or word games that's behind it, but it's an expected real return over time, and it's obviously closely related to the kind of risk exposure you have in relation to how the fund is invested. This is also the theme of the national budget, for example: the share that the State pension fund – Foreign may invest in shares. Then the representative Tybring-Gjedde believes that there is no exact science just what level of oil money you spend on. But what you have to take into account is the real economy. Tybring-Gjedde describes a reality that is not correct, when he says that the government proposes to spend significantly more oil money in 2007 compared to 2006. The amount is approximately NOK 6 billion, and that's about 4 pst. So that means that we're phased in towards 4 pst, and we're also saying that for the next few years it could be that we have to be under 4 pst. But it's the real economy plus these other considerations of the rule of action that ultimately determine what is the recommended level.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e897	It was good to confirm that Halvorsen believes that the rule of action, or use of the state budget, is not an exact science. That's the first time that confession comes. I appreciate that very much, because I've been running around and claiming it for years. I want to talk a little bit about how the budget has been set up for 2007. Does the Minister of Finance realize that the way oil money is spent has different effects on the Norwegian domestic economy? And if she does so against assumption, why is consumption, investment, tax relief, acquisition abroad or within Norway treated in exactly the same way in the budget? And since it is done in this way, what economic theory is the Council of State building on in the framework of the annual presentation of the budget for the Storting? I assume that the Council of State understands the question, namely that investment abroad and in Norway is budgeted in the same way, tax relief is budgeted in the same way as consumption, investment in the same way as consumption, etc. Will the Council of State take a look at this and propose changes to the budget for the Storting?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e904	When the Ministry of Finance calculates the extent to which a budget is expansive, Tybring-Gjedde's question is precisely highlighted, that different areas of the economy or different areas of the state budget have a different impact on it. For example, significant efforts in the local government sector would appear to be different from a large increase in the aid budget – not in that the aid budget does not have an impact on the domestic economy and as such also contributes to demand, for Norwegian organisations, suppliers of goods, etc. Although Norway also contributes in the form of work done abroad, it is clear that the aid budget is more effective than the municipal budget – let us say that – abroad, and has less domestic demand effect. All these elements are involved in assessing the overall impact of demand in the budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e913	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs: «The flood in Trøndelag in February this year caused significant damage to the flooded municipalities. The compensation model used by the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs covers between 50 and 97 pst. of the additional costs incurred by the municipalities as a result of the flooding. In addition, there's a municipal allowance of 20 pst. to flood protection NVE. Does the Council of State consider that the compensation provided by the State is in accordance with the expectations it created after its visit to the exposed municipalities?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e922	First of all, let me say that the trip to the flooded areas of Trøndelag earlier this year made a very strong impression. I want to repeat what I said during my visit, namely that a very good job was done by local authorities and volunteers in the very difficult situation that you experienced. The Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs has granted 34.2 million. kr in exceptional discretionary funds for municipalities and county councils which have incurred additional expenditure as a result of the flood in Trøndelag in February. This is a significant contribution, which shows that the Government is following up the promise that the big community will be involved and contribute to the reconstruction and preservation of the affected communities. This was also supported by the compensation model that has been chosen. The model benefits the most affected municipalities – such as Flatanger, who received a coverage contribution of 97 p.m. and Åfjord, who received a coverage contribution of 61 p.m. Municipalities with high expenditure achieve the highest level of coverage, by spending more than NOK 250 per year. the population is fully covered. Municipalities and county councils that have had expenses less than NOK 250 per year. the resident, is compensated for 50 pst. of its additional costs. The funds have been used to cover the additional costs incurred by municipalities for the repair and construction of damaged infrastructure. The funds have also been used to cover direct additional costs incurred by municipalities during the flooding. On this basis, there can be no doubt that I live up to my promises to these areas during my visit. In the case of the district share related to flood protection, I refer to the Council of State of Enoxen's answer in the Questionnaire on 11 October this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e935	I thank the Council of State for the answer. That municipalities affected by unforeseen natural disasters have to bear debt to the state is almost incredible, but that is actually the case for some per. today. I get confirmation today that this is the case. Most of the municipalities I have been in contact with have had great faith that the bill after the flood in winter would be compensated. When we see that some municipalities in the Nord-Trøndelag now have 4-5 million. kr in additional expenditure, it is clear that this would injure financially and lead to cuts in other municipal services. The compensation model has proved to be very good for the small municipalities, which were also in the Council of State, but for the slightly larger ones it is not as appropriate. Can the Council of State imagine looking at the compensation model, which, to some extent, is very unfortunate for the slightly larger municipalities? Flatanger is a municipality with 1,750 inhabitants. Both Flatanger and the Highlands of the North-Trundellag came out well, but the other municipalities definitely did not.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e944	There should never be any doubt that the big community will be set up when smaller communities are exposed, for example. floods or other natural disasters. We have done so to a considerable extent in this context. I find it quite natural that the municipalities that have had the largest expenditure are compensated to a greater extent than the municipalities that have had less expenditure. Now we have set a distinction at NOK 250. It might well be possible to imagine that this was done differently. It would be a rational judgement, but we have found that this is reasonable. In the case of the 20 pst district share. for the protection measures in rivers and water, the usual practice has been based on the fact that the State has set up a total of 20 pst.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e951	The oil and energy minister said 14 days ago when I asked questions about this, that he wanted to look at a depreciation plan for municipalities with large costs related to flood protection, i.e. what goes on at the NVE. Is the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs willing to review what is going on in the compensation scheme? I think I have numbers here. I have received a lot of e-mails from the relevant municipalities, and it is clear that they have a slightly different assessment of what the Council of State said during their visit. The speech of the figures is also reasonably clear afterwards: this entails considerable additional costs. Is the Council willing to look at this and make a new assessment of the municipalities that are now coming out very badly?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e956	There is no doubt that the municipalities that have had the biggest expenses will also get the most in compensation. That's quite reasonable. It is then also the case that the rapporteurs, who were the ones who had the largest expenses, have expressed their satisfaction with the scheme that is established. Then it is that some of the municipalities that have not received such a large share in reimbursement as the namdal municipalities are less satisfied. But it's also the municipalities that had the least expenditure per person. the population. So this is a reasonable arrangement, and the state has put a lot of money on the table to help clean up.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e970	This question has been postponed to the next Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e977	This question, from the representative Tord Lien to the Minister for the Environment, has been transferred to the Minister for Finance who is directing him.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e980	‘The government has previously stated that new fiscal charges should not be imposed.’ in the debate between the Council of State and the representative Sanner in the last Question Time. – ‘The government is now proposing to introduce a NOx tax where only part of the amount will be used to reduce NOx emissions. How does this relate to the fact that all new charges are due to defined purposes?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e993	First of all, what is the starting point for the question of the representative Lien. What the Government announced in the Soria Moria Declaration is that we should continue the overall level of taxation from 2004. At the same time, we announced that we would review the tax and tax system with a view to making changes that would promote environmentally friendly behaviour. The government has never announced that new fiscal charges should not be imposed. Nor has the government ever announced that all new charges will be due to defined purposes. The State budget for 2007 brings the level of taxation back to the level of 2004. The Government also proposes to impose a charge on NOx emissions. The main objective of the levy is to contribute, together with other instruments, to the fulfilment of the NOx obligations of the Gothenburg Protocol. In the 2007 national budget, the NOx emissions in 2010 are estimated at 203 600 tonnes. Under the Gothenburg Protocol, Norway is obliged to reduce the annual emissions of NOx to 156 000 tonnes. This has been a long time for both government and business, but there has been no intervention by previous governments to ensure that we meet these targets. Now we really just have the time and the way again to get this to. The NOx tax is an environmental tax and not a fiscal tax. The purpose of the charge is to provide the polluter with an incentive to reduce NOx emissions. The use of the levy as an instrument contributes to the adaptation of actors in order to minimise emissions. Like the income from the other excise duties, the proceeds, i.e. the income of the State, from the NOx tax, excluding the petroleum sector, go to the State Treasury. There is therefore no form of designation, either of the NOx fee or of any other excise duty. The NOx tax from the petroleum sector is part of the cash flow of the State pension fund — Foreign. The government attaches great importance to the reduction of NOx emissions without the unnecessary economic burden on industries. Substantial compensation for the industries concerned is therefore proposed. We like to engage in dialogue with the industries to find good solutions to NOx emissions, but it is not appropriate to remove the proposal that the levy should be introduced from 1 January 2007.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e1043	I thank you for that. I find that on the one hand it is said that this is an environmental tax, and on the other hand it says that it is also a fiscal tax. Then we point out to the Council of Finance Ministers that the marginal cost of action to reduce NOx emissions is between 50 and 60 kroner per year. kilos, so the 15 kilos will not in themselves lead to the necessary investments. The scheme amounts to DKK 1.6 billion in fees and SEK 400 million. for measures. This will result in the relocation of competitive Norwegian industry to countries with lower environmental requirements than Norway. The fishing fleet will be hit very hard. It will deliver the fish to ports outside Norway. The Pedersen Council of State, the Minister for Fisheries, has today said that the investment needs in the fishing fleet are between 75 and 275 million. kr. Then I don't understand why you need to take 400 million. kr from the fishing industry. I would like to ask you, how does the environment improve when you charge 1.2 billion kroner, which will paralyze these industries very hard?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e1057	First, I guess I don't think I should understand the representative Lien there asking for a higher fee, even though certain background calculations for the calculation of this fee would suggest that if we just took environmental considerations quickly, quickly and brutally, the fee would have been higher. But we've tried to find a system for this, where we start with the largest fishing boats and the largest units and the largest boilers, and with a relatively low fee to get to the conversion that we want in place. For the fishing industry, compensation schemes amount to more than 90 million. kr, as proposed in the budget. But I understand that the industries are busy getting to this in such a way that they suffer as much as possible. I'm really sorry that the previous government wasn't much earlier on with this, because I think in a long-term dialogue with the industries you could get to something different than this. I like to cooperate with the industries in the future on how this can be done, but the fee has to be introduced from 1 January 2007, because we have no time to lose. So there's a question of whether we can adapt it a little bit differently in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e1064	The Progress Party has been produced several times in this debate as the new environmental party in Norway, and of course we want to continue to do so. We can then confirm that we do not want a higher NOx tax, rather a lower NOx tax, in line with the Progress Party's proposal in the revised national budget, namely a lower tax, but a charge that goes to environmental measures in full, in dialogue with industry. Then I must say that I agree with the Council of State when she points out that this could have been done by previous governments. But it hasn't been done, and then you have to do something in common, but then in dialogue with the industry. Then I wonder if the Government can confirm that the Government will follow the Environmental Party Progress Party and introduce a fund as an alternative to taxes in the State budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e1077	I think it is both enjoyable and costly that the Progress Party now declares itself to be Norway's environmental party. At the same time, it's my belief that people get better if they get praise than if they just shut up. So when the Progress Party as the last party in Norway discovers that there is something called climate problems, that it is real, that the snow melts in the north and in the poles – yes at all – then we are on the track and say it is very nice that the Progress Party has discovered this. It should not be misunderstood that we believe that the Progress Party is an environmental party. I just want to say the following about the NOx fee: We have submitted a proposal for Stortinget. We notified it in the revised national budget. This meant that the industries involved started work, because they realized that this was serious. We want to introduce the fee from 1 January 2007, but we want to have dialogue with the industry, so that we get to the conversion that we want. For the whole point of the NOx tax, it's not basically heads of state, it's getting a shift in an environmentally friendly direction, so that we meet the commitments we have in the Kyoto Protocol. So for everyone who initially doesn't understand what NOx is, it's about acid precipitation. And it hits us all, both progress players, SVs and everyone else.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e1099	It is a question from the environmental party Progress Party, which, after all, plays its part when the other environmental party has disappeared. The question to the Minister for Oil and Energy is as follows: ‘In March of this year, Statoil and Shell submitted plans to establish a CO2 value chain on the Tjeldbergodden by 2012. The government looked at the plans as a breakthrough, and thought the project would be realized. Now CO2 cleaning is being prepared in Mongstad as a breakthrough, despite the fact that this is being realized two years later [[!]] Will other gas power projects receive conditions and political/economic support in line with Mongstad?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e1116	Since its accession, the government has given high priority to reducing the vulnerability of the power supply, and we are also particularly concerned about the situation in Central Norway. At the same time, the Government, through the Soria Moria Declaration, has determined that it will, through economic instruments and the deployment of new technologies, ensure that new gas power plant concessions will be based on CO2 removal. Mongstad is the first possibility for this government to ensure CO2 management at gas power plants through new permits. The government has shown that it is serious about the terms and conditions laid down by the authorities and Statoil in the implementation agreement and in the Mongstad emissions permit. Statoil applied for a concession and emission permit for a gas power plant on the Tjeldbergodden on 30 June 2004. Norway’s watercourse and energy directorate granted energy concessions in January 2006. In line with the Government’s guidelines on State pollution control concerning the processing of applications for emission permits for gas power plants, the SFT submitted a closure to the Ministry of the Environment on 18 January 2006. The SFT recommends in its setting that CO2 management be required from the start-up of the installation. The application for an emission permit is pending in the Ministry of the Environment. After receiving SFT’s suspension, the Ministry of the Environment launched in March 2006 Statoil and Shell plans to establish a value chain for CO2 between Statoil’s planned gas power plant on the Tjeldbergodden and the kerosene field at Haltenbanken. According to the plans submitted, the value chain will consist of an 860 MW gas power plant, where CO2 is used for increased oil extraction in the Draugen and possibly the Heidrun field later. Parts of the power generation shall be used to supply electricity to the Worm Lange, to the methanol factory on the Tjeldbergodden and to the Romsdals region. Statoil and Shell are now investigating the commercial and technological aspects of such a value chain for CO2. The project consists of many sub-elements: power plants, capture installations, CO2 pipeline, power cable and modifications on one or more platforms. Several of these sub-elements have not yet been designed. It is also not clear whether concessions that have already been granted need to be amended, in the light of the new plans for the Tent Goods. The government is also actively promoting new power generation in central Norway, where clarification of the framework conditions for different types of new power generation is central. It is therefore premature to say something about the requirements and framework conditions that it is appropriate to relate to this project and other future projects. Finally, in the case of the project on the Tent Credits, there is no reason for it to be delayed, as long as Statoil and Shell, which are the project holders, are able to keep their progress plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e1152	I thank you for your answer. But I think the Council of State should draw up a calendar, because it is quite obvious that the project on the Tent Credits is also a new project for which you have applied for a concession during this large-scale period. It's not a project that got a concession from the Bondevik government. Ergo: The tabernacle delicacy is just as new as Mongstad. The tent credit has the same ambitions for CO2 cleaning as Mongstad. We're planning to clean up 2.1 million tonnes of CO2. It is more than the 930000 tonnes that one has to clean net in Mongstad. In addition, one will have a CO2 value chain on the Tent Goods, so anyone who wants to realize CO2 cleaning and the value chain should say that the Tent Goods would be the big breakthrough that would get the great support from the Government. It's a little worrying when the government can't guarantee it's going to have the same principleal approach to the framework conditions for the Tent Goods it's had for Mongstad. I would like to ask the Council of State to elaborate on its answer a little bit.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e1175	I think that's good reason to lubricate with a little bit of patience. Statoil and Shell will make an investment decision in 2008 on their value chain project on the Tjeldbergodden. That means that it's a good deal ahead of us before we're even able to engage in dialogue with Statoil and Shell about what the state contributions are going to be. That government, however, already signaled when Statoil and Shell launched their value chain project on the Tjeldbergodden, was that this is an interesting project. This is an option to establish a value chain. This is an opportunity to get an electrification of platforms, and this is also an opportunity to bring power into an area that needs it. So we're positive about this project, and of course, as fast as Statoil and Shell are ready for it, we'll talk to them about the project. We haven't gotten there yet. It's not on the government, but it says this is a big and complex project, where Statoil and Shell are now in an investigation phase.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e1182	I still record that the calendar is not related to what is really happening, because in Mongstad, after all, a final investment decision will not be taken until 2012 to complete a CO2 clean-up plant in 2014. Instead of saying that Statoil and Shell should hold on – without the Government giving a clear signal now, because it should not do so until 2008 – it should be a much better policy to go in now and ask Shell and Statoil what to do to realize this project, with both gas power plants, CO2 management and CO2 value chains. I register that the government does not add up to that race, and I find that very regrettable. It shows that you have an approach to Mongstad that is different from the one you have to the Tjeldbergodden. I also record that when the Prime Minister spoke to NTB about the project on the Tjeldbergodden in March of this year, his signal was: Hurrah, this is joyous. This looks like you can do without the State contributing. It's a completely different signal from what's been given to Mongstad, where the country goes in and takes all the costs of the CO2 cleaning plant after 2014, in addition to what's the quota costs. Will the Council of State take the initiative to work with Shell and Statoil from today, and not from 2008, to realize this?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e1203	What is the significant difference between these projects is that in Mongstad, Statoil has been investigating a thermal power plant for several years. It had now come so far that it was ready to make an investment decision and to conclude binding contracts for the supply of the thermal power plant. Therefore, this agreement is now concluded, so that we can run a race forward in Mongstad. A new project has therefore been outlined on Teldbergodden, where the necessary decisions will be taken in 2008 on the implementation of this project. We have plenty of time. We will enter into dialogue with Statoil and Shell on the realization of the project on the Tent Goods when they are ready to enter into such discussions. We had come to Mongstad that the company was ready to have these discussions, and we could carry them out and get a good result. We have not yet come there with regard to the Tent Goods. Then I register that the Progress Party is also ready in this case to print out a blank cheque without going through what the real costs on the state's hand will be, because that's where we have to get first. We need to see what is necessary to use public funds for this project before we go into discussions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e1218	‘Representatives from the Government have expressed concerns about the upcoming CO2 emissions from the Snow White plant on Melkøya. The emissions permit to Snow White states, inter alia: technological developments and changes in climate policy can provide the basis for assessing new requirements related to greenhouse gas emissions. The permit requires the installation to be arranged for the capture, transport and deposit of CO2. Will the Government contribute to cooperation with Statoil that could result in CO2 clean-up of the power plant at Snow White?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e1234	The government has recently presented plans for a historic effort to develop CO2 management technology in gas power plants. Through the cooperation agreement with Statoil on Mongstad, we aim to develop world-leading environmental technologies that can contribute to tackling global climate problems. The Snow White energy plant is equipped for CO2 management, and Statoil as a company is involved both in Snow White and in Mongstad. It is very central to the Government that the technological investment now to take place in Mongstad results in solutions that are also applicable elsewhere in Norway and abroad. At the same time, Statoil plans to develop a new production line on Snow White, a so-called train 2. Statoil has recently presented these plans to the Ministry of Oil and Energy. The plans for the power supply are either to take power from the grid or to establish a new energy plant with CO2 management. When setting up a new energy plant with CO2 management on Snow White, there will be good opportunities for CO2 management also on the existing energy plant. As a result of the government's technological and economic efforts in Mongstad, it is therefore well suited for the fact that also the snow-white energy plant will not get CO2 management too far into the future. It is a pleasure for me to be able to correct some of the failure sins of the previous government.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e1265	Yes, the fine thing the government had against the previous government is a blow in the middle of the stomach of this government's largest party, the Workers' Party, which had the direction and was the driver to get the Snow White plant realized along the lines that are now. But there'll be a settlement on the chamber. When it came to the answer to my question about Snow White, it was positive in the sense that one considers the possibility of cleaning. What I had hoped for was that one had got more offensive progress in this work, in the light of what is going to happen on Kårstø, and in the light of what is going to happen on the Tent Devotion. My question is whether a look at the possibilities for this to be done far earlier than waiting for the results of a sewage treatment plant to be ready at Mongstad in 2014.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e1274	Regardless of what the representative Kvassheim says, it was the previous government that granted a concession for the construction of power plants on Snow White without CO2 handling. I am recording that the representative Kvassheim is now very offensive in relation to running several sewage treatment plants as soon as possible. It is positive that the Left supports the important work done by this government in this area. Of course, it is an ambition for us to get CO2 management ready as soon as practicable. There is still a great and demanding work to be done before the Snow White plant on Melkøya is up and running and in production. And, as I said, the plans for a train II have already been launched that will facilitate CO2 management on both of these power plants on Melkøya. Then we'll have to take things in order. What we've already gone into is demanding projects at Kårstø and Mongstad, which will be launched, where step 1 will be in progress in 2010. So the government has high ambitions in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e1292	I am pointing out that representatives of Statoil have said that the Snow White plant is equipped for the cleaning of CO2. It should be possible to run a parallel race with what you have on Kårstø, which is due in 2009. An additional emission permit has now been applied for for the Melkoya plant, with up to 200000 tonnes of CO2 for several years. I hope that's a moment the government is using to speed up the work of cleaning up Melkøya. But my final question to the Council of State is, in the light of the debate we have had today, in the light of the fact that there are different gas power projects, different progress in clean-up, and different signals in terms of the Government's involvement in each plant: does the Council of State see that it could have been of value to the Stortinge to have received a breakdown message, where one sees the whole between the different installations, the different possibilities for CO2 clean-up and management, and a description of the Government's ambitions in relation to the whole and in relation to each project?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e1310	The government's position on this is set out in the Soria Moria Declaration. The concessions granted by previous governments are at stake. The government will help to facilitate CO2 management on these concessions, as we are now doing at Kårstø, as the first project we have started. In the case of new concessions, they shall be based on CO2 management. In my opinion, presenting a big message that deals with this in general has unfortunately little value, because there is no facility here that will be the same. The government's policy is firm. It's more about having discussions with the different actors to get a sensible way of implementing the projects that now had to come. It will be the government's approach to this. The store will be presented with this, case by case.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e1327	‘The government has long proclaimed that Årdal is in crisis. The solution to this would be several tens of millions in public support for the start-up of a door factory in the municipality. Now it turns out that there are not enough unemployed to fill the new factory with labour. Does the Council of State consider it sensible to provide business support to a door factory in a municipality, almost without unemployment, where it can compete with other door factories in other municipalities with much higher unemployment?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e1334	It's going well in Årdal. We succeed in the conversion work. Those who get overwhelming when Hydro downgrades seem to find new work. I think we should all be happy about that. There is a political consensus that it is important to support the necessary transformation in the Årdal region. The Stortinget has joined in. It has joined the current government, and it joined the previous government. Public funds have been the trigger for a lot of activity in the municipality of Årdal. It has helped to create optimism in the countryside, and more companies now dare to invest in the municipality. And that's exactly how it should be. The public funds shall contribute to the raising of private capital. Door factory Dooria applied for funds from Innovation Norway in an entirely ordinary way. It's something that all companies have occasion to do. All enterprises are required to be assessed against the legislation and guidelines of the aid schemes. Dooria is thus not specifically treated by Innovation Norway. The majority carried out a thorough review of the proceedings in June this year. All support to individual enterprises improves the ability of the enterprise to compete. Therefore, State aid is initially prohibited by the EEA Agreement. However, the EEA legislation provides for aid to be granted in some cases. These derogations are strictly regulated. The schemes under Innovation Norway are designed in line with EEA legislation. It also applies to the schemes supported by Dooria.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e1347	I'm left with two questions to the Council of State. The first is: is a society, like what you see in the Valley of the Year, in crisis if it is estimated to be twelve unemployed and imported into the labour market? I believe that today's situation would mean that we are now reviewing some of the support that is promised, but not yet paid. Question no. 2, which I want answers to by the Council of State, is it a good idea, seen afterwards, to spend an estimated $70 million on reaching what today turns out to be twelve unemployed, of which a few will actually get a job in the new door factory?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e1354	It is possible that there is something that the representative of Skovholt Gitmark has not received, and it is that the downpour in Hydro is mainly in front of us. There's 134 more that's going to lose work. That's why there was a need for conversion in Årdal. That's why the state has set up, that Hydro has set up, and that the county has set up. That need for conversion was and is quite real. It seems then that a person is able to make that transition in such a way that it does not become a crisis, which the Government has not claimed to be. But both the previous and the current government claimed that there was a need for conversion assistance. Now that gives good results, I can't help but realize that it has to be fun over it. With regard to the assessments relating to the appropriations made by Innovation Norway, and insofar as those made by SIVA, but in particular Innovation Norway, in relation to the hearings, there are assessments that have been thoroughly reviewed by the Stortinget and everything is in its best order. The results will be fine. This is what I think we're going to enjoy.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e1361	I think there is reason to rejoice over all the municipalities that are able to reduce unemployment and keep low unemployment. What is not a cause for rejoicing is excessive use of taxpayers' money to start new businesses that will outrun others. Is the Council of State really comfortable using public funds on an enterprise in one part of the country which, according to the industry itself, is going to compete with other enterprises in another part of the country that have significantly higher unemployment rates? That's the real question here. When you have a crisis in Årdal now, it's not because of the number of unemployed, but it's because of the lack of labour. Because you start a door factory, you depend on having a competent workforce. The competent labour force to fill the first 60 jobs required by Dooria in its enterprise can be found per year. today not in Årdal.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e1368	Thus, the assessments related to the appropriations have been made by Innovation Norway. The Stortinget has had its own hearing on this, a hearing that made it clear that everything was all right here. So the kind of rematch from the representative of Skovholt Gitmark about the assessments at that time there's no reason for me to go into it. As regards the question of competing others, this issue was also highlighted in this context. But what's a known reality is that Dooria, as a company, would establish itself with the type of business in the Nordic region, and in any case be a competitor on the Nordic market. That they then chose Årdal as a location, with the good competence that Årdal has on industrial labor, was their assessment. Innovation Norway considered supporting them. But it is not that that competition would not be present if there had not been any conversion funds in Årdal. That competition would only have come from elsewhere. In addition, all enterprises in Lvgal and in other municipalities in Norway have the opportunity to apply for aid from Innovation Norway and will be subject to an as tidy and objective assessment as received by Dooria in Årdal. They will receive the aid they are entitled to if the conditions exist.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e1380	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘According to estimates, it will cost 575 million. kr in one-off sum to repair the highways in Hedmark. For the county roads, the amount is 940 million. kr. How long will the Council of State take to achieve this goal, so that it is both safe and reasonable to live in and live by, and with, the districts?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e1389	I have submitted the cost speech with which the representative Bredvold operates, in front of the State Road Administration. It expects this to be an estimate of the costs of taking the maintenance run on the national and county road network and not the total amount of investment to improve the whole national and county road network in Hedmark to a good standard. An increase in the maintenance delay is now required. By 25 pst. increase in operation and maintenance in the 2007 state budget, we will be doing well. In the national transport plan for the period 2006 to 2015, maintenance on the national road network is a priority task. This was followed up by the Government both in 2006 and in the 2007 draft budget. For the first time in the 2007 budget, sufficient funds have been put in place to maintain the gap in order to stop the increasing lag. Means to reduce the backlog shall be taken over the investment budget. For investments on the rest of the national road network, the municipality’s priorities shall be given decisive weight. It is therefore up to Hedmark County if they will prioritize this both on large parts of the national road network in the county and on the county road network. The government facilitates the upgrading of the county road network through a substantial strengthening of the municipal economy. Work on the National Transport Plan for the period 2010–2019 has begun. In the guidelines for transport operations, the Ministry has highlighted the importance of operation and maintenance in the Soria Moria Declaration. It is very important that the etats in their planning work provide an adequate basis for the long-term follow-up to the declaration. The government will return to follow-up, in the National Transport Plan Annual Report 2010–2019, to be submitted on a planned basis in December 2008.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e1398	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It was an answer that sums up what can and should be done, maybe. But it doesn't say anything about the time perspective, and it doesn't say much about big changes in relation to what happened back in time, no matter what governments have been sitting here. In the newspaper Østlandingen 10 October d.o.b. can we read the following: ‘With today’s investment level, it will take 50 years to upgrade the entire main road network in Norway to a good standard.’ I mean, 50 years. It's clear that it's quite a long time, and I guess neither I nor the Council of State will experience a proper tribal path, if we have that perspective. When, for example, talks about rv. 3 in Hedmark, it'll cost, if I remember correctly, $2.8 billion, and there's a lot of roads that are equal to rv. 3rd@item: inlistbox That's why I now want something a little more concrete. For one thing is investment, another thing is maintenance, and maintenance we have to have. But big investments are needed to upgrade the road network. That's what I really want an answer to.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e1410	The answer I gave is the answer I can give at this point in time. For what we are doing now is to follow up the Storting's decision in the current national transport plan. Unlike previous governments, also supported by the Progress Party through budgetary conciliation and its like, there is no such follow-up that we now propose and that we implement in the 2007 budget. So we're going to follow up what the Biggest has agreed. So we're going to put forward a new NTP in 2008, and the question that the representative Bredvold is raising today is at best home there, when we're going to look at how we're going to facilitate a satisfactory standard in the future. Then, rightly, with a smile, I have to say that when I looked at the basic material for the previous NTP, I found that the perspective was 60 years old. At least then, it goes in the right direction when it comes to getting a satisfactory standard on the main road network.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e1419	Once again, I thank the Council of State for the answer. I find it strange that the Council of State does not take the question more seriously — to say it this way — when she says that the question ‘at best’ should be addressed in 2008. We live in today's world. I thought that the Council of State – which comes from a party called the Center Party – was concerned, among other things. districts. That's why I've formulated the question like this. A good rural policy is not useful if we do not have a good transport policy, including: so that people can live along rv. 3 in Hedmark. There are, as I said, many roads corresponding to rv. 3 in Hedmark. I had hoped that the Council of State would not look back on what the other governments have done – governments that have also been in the Central Party – but in the future. I had hoped that we could get a real lift in this area, so that we could cut down not only from 60 years to 50 years, but maybe to, for example. 20 years -- here I just mention a number. To wait 50 years with today's level, doesn't count. If we are to have living districts, transportation must be one of the important areas in which we need to bet.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e1428	The centre party is, has ours and will be occupied by transport policy, which I will claim is one of the most important areas when it comes to getting viable and viable districts. It is also a good industrial policy. So there are quite a few of us. My answer went to what is the real situation. The size has taken a decision in which the three government parties – with subsidiary support from the Progress Party – just got to raise the level, to $2 billion more a year than the previous government could be. We must not forget that. I said 'at best'. I can take that back, because it is of course in connection with the discussions on the next NTP that a framework for the extent to which the Storing's licenses for transportation will be held in the next period. And that's where the time perspective comes in – how quickly you can improve the roads. I'm going to do my job so it won't take me 60 years or 50 years.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e1441	The question is as follows: ‘A 2009 agreement with the EU on satellite equipment in new cars allows, together with the EFC Directive, for the total monitoring of all vehicle movements. This is a strong privacy intervention. The retention of data protection has been entrusted to each Member State. The Data Protection Authority has extensive comments on the implications for the privacy of contract and directive. How will the Council of State ensure that the Stortinge receives good information and wide-ranging discussion of data protection issues concerning the use of new technologies in road traffic?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e1450	The European Commission has agreed with the automotive industry that from 1 September 2009, all cars will have equipment that automatically alerts an alarm centre if a vehicle has been involved in an accident. In order to participate in the development of this system and to assess the possible effects of such a system in Norway, the Ministry of Transport has signed a so-called ‘Memorandum of Understanding’, MoU. The signature does not involve any financial or other obligations and, in the context of a future decision to introduce such a system in Norway, of course, privacy considerations will also be carefully assessed, as well as road safety and economic considerations. The EFC Directive establishes the necessary framework conditions to ensure the proliferation and compatibility of electronic payment systems across the EEA, EFTA and EU territory. In short, the service shall ensure that the systems are able to ‘speech’. At the centre of the service is a measure that road users should be able to use the same electronic payment chip in all payment stations. The Directive covers both systems based on microwave technology and systems based on satellite and mobile technology. With some exceptions, the service shall apply to the whole road network. This Directive is a framework directive. The specific content of the Directive shall be developed through specific legislative work under the direction of the European Commission. Norway participates actively in this work. The legislation will be adopted as separate legal acts by Commission Decision. Those acts will normally need to be assessed with a view to possible inclusion in the EEA Agreement. The Directive was incorporated into the EEA Agreement by decision of the EEA Joint Committee on 7 July 2006, with the agreement of the EEA Joint Committee. A consent proposal will be submitted to the Storting in the autumn session. I would like to emphasise that I believe that the Storting in the consent proposal is giving a satisfactory mention of relevant data protection issues. Taking into account that the Directive provides a framework for future road payment collection systems, this is both natural and important. The scope and arrangements of this review are now assessed by the Ministry of Transport in consultation with the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Renewal and Administration. In its answer to question 17, the Minister for Renewal, Mr. André Oktay Dahl, will address how the Government will more generally address future privacy challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e1465	I thank you for your answer. The Council of State now confirms that when new technologies are put into use in road traffic, the data protection and privacy interference will be dealt with piecewise and split. I understand that it's the government's policy, so you're not very concerned about subsidizing privacy. Does the Government have no opinion on privacy — at a time when the ability to monitor and control is strongly increasing and the use of new technologies in several separate parts overall involves an attack on and a reduction of just privacy?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e1474	The government is busy with privacy and privacy issues. Among other things, it is therefore that, after a previous question, I said that I wanted to start my dialogue with the Swedish Data Protection Agency to ensure a good dialogue and a proper and good management of the case, after that I have got a system of what works well. And that is very important. In the Storing relationship, the Government has not concluded whether or not to submit a message at a later date. It's not for the Minister of Transport. Of course, the Minister for Transport is responsible for the issues relating to trade in particular, but it is the Minister of Justice and the Minister of Renewal and Administration who, with other important questions, is linked to the overall issue of privacy. So I have to ask for one to come back to at a later date, and then from the government councils that are the right one.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e1484	In the road sector, I thought that the Council of State, the Minister for Transport, was right in assessing the technological changes that are being carried out in stages in road traffic and which affect data protection in part and in part. I am familiar with the answer given to a written question from another representative earlier. I am also familiar with the letter that was sent to the Ministry of Transport from the Swedish Data Protection Agency as late as October 10th, which is quite extensive. I assume that the Council of State is also familiar with this. I shall quote briefly from the letter: ‘Unless restrictions on monitoring possibilities are also adopted, implementation will involve one of the most privacy-friendly measures placed on the political agenda of the 26 years of existence of the Data Protection Authority.’ Only there should be sufficient reason why the Council of Transport States, which is responsible for the department recommending the introduction of new technology measures in road traffic, also comes to the Stortinget with a communication on privacy related to technology use and privacy in the transport sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e1494	First of all, the consent proposition comes to address these issues in a thorough way. Secondly, data protection issues cover a much wider field than just traffic. That's why I want a discussion within the government about how a broad-based person should discuss privacy issues, and how to have that discussion in the Storting, in what form this is going to come to Stortinget. Traffic is an important part of this, but there are also other important pieces, as also the Data Protection Authority points out in other contexts, which in that case should be highlighted in order to have a broad and good discussion on this issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e1503	I have a question for the Minister for Transport: ‘When the state built the Ashøy bridge between Bergen and Ashkoy in its time, it was stressed that the bridge constituted a central landscape element in the Bergen entrance. The state road service therefore provided the bridge with lighting on the vehicle cables, the ‘peripheral lighting’, which has enjoyed the population and travellers in the area for many years. In recent times the lighting has not been operational due to. lack of maintenance, which is a State responsibility. Will the Council of State take an initiative to ensure that the lighting can again become intact and help the lights to light up again?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e1512	The so-called pearl chain on Askøybrua was closed due to the technical condition of the luminaire, which specifically required high operating and maintenance costs. The state road authority has not found it right to invest in a new ‘pearl chain’ because of investment costs and future operating costs. On this basis, Askøybrua AS has taken the initiative to re-establish the ‘Pearl Chain’. They turned to a local electricity company, Bergenshalvøens Kommunal Kraftselskap, in the autumn of 2005 and asked for an offer for the establishment and operation of a light range. The toll company received an investment and operating offer that was financed without the use of tolls or State resources. The offer was submitted to the State Road Administration, which made the company aware that re-establishment is covered by the Public Procurement Act, with the consequence that re-establishment of the so-called pearl chain must be illuminated on offer. There is currently a work under the direction of Askøybrua AS to develop a competitive basis for the re-establishment and operation of the ‘pearl chain’ at Askøybrua, and this work will be completed by the end of October this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e1521	I thank you for your answer. The case raises several questions of principle, namely the responsibility of the State to follow up its own investments with means of maintenance and the ability to cover operating and maintenance costs with tolls at the request of the finance company. The ashtray was for the rest almost 100 pst. user-funded project initially. As the Council of State says, the toll company – and the public – has been very concerned about the matter and has been in a dialogue with the State Road Service for a long time. It is precisely because this constitutes such a beautiful landmark that it seems that this deserves to be restored. Does the Council of State see that we are facing a dilemma here, that in a user-funded project, where one has the same desire to use funds for this type of maintenance too, does not give rise to this?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e1532	With respect to the fact that both the decision to establish the pearl lighting and the decision made earlier that one has not found it right to invest again has been made before my time as the Council of State, I will probably agree with the representative Halleraker that it is a dilemma, but a dilemma in a slightly different way, perhaps, than Halleraker thinks. The dilemma is how much to invest in aesthetics. The cost of Community funds for aesthetics, when we know that it is for bridges, tunnels or roads in general, there is a alarming need for maintenance, which has not least much to say for road safety, for the number of people killed and injured on our roads. That's the dilemma I understand that the State Road Service has taken over, and that's why one has not found to be able to allow more resources for this than one has ever done.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e1542	I thank you again for the answer. I am aware that there has been work on constructive proposals, including: by local electricity suppliers, in order to help this happen again, but my impression is that the matter has been handled a little. With the involvement of the Council of State in a similar matter, namely national tourist roads and the importance that road facilities also represent positive travel experiences, I will again ask whether the Council of State would like to take the initiative to resolve the matter, so that this landmark could once again be enjoyed both by road users and by seafarers.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e1549	On the question of what the Council of State will do, I will answer that the work is in progress. It's not that it's stopped. The dilemma is that the law we have for public procurement does not make it possible to enter into a direct agreement between the BKK and the toll company. One may regret that, but I know that the representative Halleraker belongs to a party that is absolutely concerned that we should also use the offer for public procurement. It is also necessary for the Council of State to align itself accordingly. I also hope that one will get ahead of that work, and at least it has told me that one should have the competition basis completed now this month. Then you get a hope that the local forces are eager when it comes to being in that supply, and that one gets a good solution. I fully agree with the Halleraker representative that the aesthetic experience along our roads is also important. Here he heals some of us.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e1558	I have the following questions for the Minister of Knowledge: ‘200 students are now at risk of dropping out of high school in East Agder. This gives cause for great concern. From the student team, it is an explanation that the advice on career choices is completely miserable. The school is unable to qualify students to take the right professional choices. Too much theory also makes many school trips. Providing better information on job opportunities and the labour market needs to be a much better priority for students. What will the Council of State do to avoid many high school dropouts?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e1567	Let me first of all stress that in Norwegian school there is a lot that works well. Of course, we have some challenges, and one of these is that too many students opt out of high school. It is therefore a very important question for the representative to raise. From the state point of view, we have focused attention both on the problem of the implementation of secondary education and on education and vocational guidance, and are concerned with a coordinated and comprehensive effort. Unfortunately, there are as many people as between 20 and 25 pst. by those who undertake a post-secondary course, who do not complete it. Implementation is particularly low in the pre-vocational directions. In January this year, on the basis of the problem of substitution in secondary education, I set up a working group to carry out a thorough review of the reasons why pupils and apprentices do not complete their education courses, and to assess concrete and targeted actions that can help improve their implementation. I wanted a broad approach to the issues and a special focus on vulnerable groups. The group's report was delivered to me on 30 August. In particular, the measures proposed in this report have been widely discussed in the field of education and training guidance. The Ministry of Knowledge is currently working on a major education message as a tool for social cohesion. The proposed measures in the report will be seen in the context of this reporting work. Furthermore, I would like to mention the elements of the new curriculum, the promise of knowledge, which I believe can help meet the challenges of renunciation of higher education. In the early stages, the selection programme is introduced for all pupils, and in secondary education, deeper education projects are introduced for pupils in the vocational training programme. Both aim to give students better choice and more adapted training in relation to their needs and needs. This may help to increase the motivation of pupils to complete secondary education. The courses of choice shall provide students with tastes of educational programmes they will meet in higher education. The profession will thus help to link youth and secondary school more closely, thus also making the transition more flexible. Project for immersion will provide students in a vocational preparatory study programme with the opportunity to deepen themselves in areas of special interest. The Training Act lays down the right of students to the necessary counselling on education, vocational training and professional choice and on social issues. The regulation states that this is the responsibility of the school owner. The law says little with intent about how the school owners will organise their work in order to get a good job done. The strength of this is that each school knows best where the shoe prints, the weakness is that it is up to each school to prioritize this work. Therefore, the Government is working to make education and vocational guidance more holistic and systematic. In order to strengthen coordination, quality and access to guidance, three countries are now experimenting with the Partnership for Career Guidance. Partnerships are committed cooperation between school owners, NAV, adult education, working life, colleges and universities. The experience of these partnerships will provide us with important information in relation to the way forward. Very many of today’s young people use the Internet as a main source of information. The web site willbli.no is an information service developed jointly by the municipalities and the Education Directorate. We want to strengthen the quality of this service. Today, the service provides information to all those who are applying for secondary education and who are in the forefront of professional and educational choices. In short, the service will now be developed to provide more educational and professional information and to provide better guidance for advisers, students, teachers and parents. In the context of the implementation of the Knowledge Promise, significant means of enhancing competences have been put in place. It is stated in the Strategy for the Development of Competence in Initial Training 2005-2008 that the advisory service is a national priority area for the development of competences. Proposals for 2007 for the State budget continue to place considerable emphasis on raising competences. Increased appropriations for measures to improve the implementation of secondary education have also been proposed. An overall effort in this area is therefore being made through the Knowledge promise, through the follow-up to the measures proposed in the previous report, through the priorities we are making in the budget, and further in the context of the forthcoming call for proposals. This has a high priority in our department.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e1588	I would like to thank the Council of State for a thorough answer, which I of course noticed. But I've been sent a letter with eleven points from the Student Organization in East Agder and would like to get a quote from one of the points there, and I ask the Council of State to listen and comment: ‘The secondary education advisory service must function in such a way that it does not ‘press’ the student to choose a line that does not correspond to the student’s own wish. Although such advice is well intended by both advisers and teachers, it may lead to the student becoming a student of the wrong choice of studies, and thus fall away.’ Then my question becomes: Shouldn't education and vocational guidance be strengthened and improved considerably in primary school, so that students get a better basis for choosing the right education for the first time?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e1600	I fully agree with that. I have also had the pleasure of meeting representatives from Aust-Agder, who have presented this to me. I have to say it was a useful meeting. It gave me useful information about the way on. The counselling service is very important to give young people the opportunity to make wise and right choices. Therefore, we use considerable resources to enhance the quality of the counselling service. I will also come back to Stortinget with new measures in the big message that I referred to. It's quite right, as the representative says, like the youth in East Agder and across the country says, that the counselling service is a very important arena, not just to give advice, but to give wise advice, qualified advice, not least an indication of the way forward. Pressing young people to make choices they don't want to make, of course, I strongly advise against, because motivation is very important to succeed in a professional career. So if advisers give advice that is contrary to what the student wants, I would say that it is of course the student's choice that is crucial.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e1609	I would like to thank the Council of State for a good answer, in fact. I believe, however, that I will point out another point and ask the Council of State to listen to this letter I have received from the Student Organisation in East Agder. It says: ‘The student organisation considers that students who need more practical training must be given the opportunity to start vocational training in a company, in order to take the theory section later, or to complete the entire vocational training as an apprentice.’ Then my question is quite brief: what are the views of the Council of State regarding this point in the letter from the Student Organisation in Aust-Agder?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e1621	This possibility already exists today. So you have the opportunity to learn straight and take the theory later. But it's clear that for a high school or for a county municipality, it's easiest for everyone to go one run, which means that you get a volume on the students, that they go to high school for one to two years and look like they're learning. But for many school trips and theories, starting at a construction site or in a workshop and then gradually being motivated to take more knowledge a way to do what's right there today, and which I of course encourage both high school and county municipalities that school owners make up for. Fortunately, we have many different projects, also under the direction of Norwegian business, which show that starting at a construction site motivates. You'll eventually get a little more untraditional skilled worker. So there are no restrictions in the law on this, and it is quite up to the county itself to facilitate it. I very much agree with what is the starting point for the question: One person who drops out of high school is one too many, so we have to make sure that each youth finds a career path that they succeed in.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e1634	I would like to ask the Minister of Knowledge the following questions: ‘Relevance of teachers is very central to the Knowledge Lift. There's a lot of resources allocated to this. However, there are clear signals from several teams that the intentions have been followed up to varying degrees by the municipalities. What measures have the Council of State taken to verify that the funds have been used for the enhancement of competence provided for, and what action will be taken against municipalities that have not followed up their responsibilities as school owners?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e1643	From the state level, considerable resources are being used to enhance the competence of teachers in the implementation of the Knowledge Promise — more than in any previous school reform. It is important, then, to ensure that the funds are used in the best possible way to give teachers, instructors and school leaders high-quality skills. In order to monitor the use of the funds according to their intentions, a comprehensive and ongoing reporting and evaluation has been provided. The first activity report for 2005 from the Swedish Research Foundation Fafo points out that the main picture is that the funds have created a great deal of activity in terms of empowerment. In addition to the state funds, municipalities have increased the use of their own resources by about 50 %. 10 pst. from 2004 to 2005. National priority areas are also given local priority, and both school management and 2nd foreign languages have been central in 2005. There's also a lot of post-secondary education in Norwegian and mathematics in primary school. I will follow up on the design of the upcoming reports to ensure optimal use of the funds. The research foundation of Fafo has also been tasked with evaluating the work on strategy throughout the period and delivered its first interim report in May. This shows that it is a challenge for school owners to anchor the development of their skills in schools and to enter into early dialogue with the supply side, so that the development of skills corresponds to the needs associated with the implementation of the knowledge promise. The Education Association has also presented its own reports, which show that there is a lot of activity in the field, but many teachers have not yet received an offer of training. According to the first partial evaluation by Fafo, the strategy is well placed to create real changes. This presupposes that the development of competences is rooted in the needs and challenges of each school and educational enterprise. The evaluation indicates that this has not been sufficiently done. In several places, the individual teacher/instructor has not been involved to a large extent. School owners must therefore ensure local participation and anchoring in the individual classroom. This is followed by asking the county council to ensure that local participation and anchoring are visible in the annual plans of the school owners. The draft budget underlines that this assumption is to be met by the allocation of funds and that the State is to follow up on this. Another important instrument is good dialogue with the partners in the strategy, which are the Municipal Council of the Municipalities, the Association of Education, the Norwegian Lektorlag, the National Association of Schools and the Norwegian School Leaders Association and the Central Education Administration. I will help ensure that ongoing contact continues to ensure that the objectives of the strategy are achieved. I will also provide ongoing information to the school owners on the use of the means of competence. It is important for me to continue to follow up on the use of resources for developing skills, so that each school is best placed to implement the Knowledge promise.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e1656	After all, each school was mentioned at the end. I believe that the Norwegian school system may suffer significantly from continuous averages, and that you do not go down to single schools when you have to follow up. The Council of State's answer was a good review of what we know. I can in and of myself split up my follow-up. The same Fafo report to which the Minister of Knowledge refers also states: ‘The school owners place more emphasis on the goal of developing the school as a learning organisation than the school leaders do, and the teachers who have been interviewed so far pay little attention to this objective in the strategy.’ Is there something Stortinget talks about all the time – we did that last night through several debates – is developing the school as a learning organisation. It must be a major challenge for the Minister of Knowledge to build up methods to follow up on how to actually get through to each school. That's what was the question: What is the Minister of Knowledge thinking about this?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e1668	It is very positive that there is a great deal of interest in the use of skills development resources in schools. It is used in 375 million years. kr of the State's funds. We have proposed for Stortinget a continuation of this. It's good to see that the school owner adds his own resources to the pot, which now leads us to have the greatest level of competence for the teachers ever, but it will always be critical. Let me say that I'm concerned about the individual school. That's where the teachers work. It is clear that each school needs to find out how the teacher's body needs competence and knowledge. That is why, through the county, we have also made sure that the school owner is obliged to make this visible, and in this way ensure that it is taken care of. I think the questioner will immediately understand that it is impossible for me, for the directorate, or for that matter a state authority, to direct funds down to the individual school. It must be the school owner, together with the management of the school and the teachers, who will find out how the means of continuing training can best be used in individual activities. This is also in line with what the previous government did in terms of these means. Here we continue the same system that my predecessor, Kristin Clement, established.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e1675	That is where I agree with the Minister of Knowledge. I don't think we can direct this down to every single school, but there's something quite different about following up on the extent to which each school and every school owner uses the funds as intended. I find that the Minister of Knowledge has really not answered what was initially the question. It is: to what extent can you begin to control down to each school, and to what extent is the enhancement of competence and the promise of knowledge followed up as foreseen? Nor has he responded to the extent to which the responsibility of each school owner is followed up. I've been in businesses and run businesses, and I've also run the family as a business, and considering all of this from average considerations, is one of the most dangerous things you can do. Action should be taken. You don't conduct what's going on, but you follow up and you know what's going on in the units around. I also think the Minister of Knowledge should have that ambition.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e1684	We have a close cooperation with both the KS, the Education Association and all the actors in the school about this. In addition, we have the county as the main State actor, who is responsible for monitoring this against the school owner. Of course, the school owner must follow this up with the individual enterprise, for which the municipality, or for which the county municipality, has the ownership responsibility. This means that we are now following up on a comprehensive evaluation through Fafo. They have provided interim reports to us and will also provide a final report at the end of this entire course. As the representative said, this was also a theme in Stortinget yesterday evening, when this was debated with competence and the importance of the development of competences. My impression is that these means are well used. It may be teachers or organizations that have not received enough of what they need, and that is, of course, a challenge all the time. But it has to be the school owner, along with local authorities, who have to figure out what this is like, evaluate it and go into every business and say that here we need more competence in that or that field. It will be very demanding for us as state authority to have some sort of overall responsibility for it. We put the framework for this, and then it has to be followed up locally.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e1695	I would like to ask the Minister for Labour and Inclusion the following questions: ‘The example of Lysaker station underlines the importance of stronger instruments in universal design work in transport. In a press release, the Council of State warns that the Government will promote its own law of discrimination and accessibility during the autumn of 2007. The government also notes that accessibility in transport and ICT will be dealt with in the law. Will the Government then promote the proposal for the minority in the Syse Committee on universal design requirements with concrete deadlines also in transport and ICT?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e1704	The Government aims to promote a proposition for a separate disability-related discrimination and accessibility law during the autumn of 2007. It is important to put in place a protection against discrimination against people with disabilities. It also applies to accessibility and universal design requirements in transport and ICT. The SYSE Committee's minority proposal on universal design requirements with concrete deadlines also in transport and ICT, as the representative Tenden asks, has not been identified by the sample. Thus, neither the majority nor the minority have provided any material that highlights benefits and costs, nor have the hearing bodies been able to deal with any impact assessment. I will assume that, among other things, This is part of the background of the fact that the Bondevik government did not follow this up when it submitted St.meld. No 40 for 2002–2003, Disability reduction. How we can best promote accessibility and universal design in transport and ICT, we are now assessing in cooperation with other relevant departments. Of course, the question of how far we should go in setting deadlines is central to the work we are now going to do. Therefore, I cannot start to answer the questions we are going to find during this assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e1713	I thank the Council of State for the answer. With pleasure I noticed that he mentioned St.meld. No 40 for 2002–2003, Disability reduction. In that case, the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV were very offensive, and they promoted, among others. a joint proposal proposing to ensure that the granting of concessions in the transport sector requires accessibility for disabled persons. Is this any government council going to follow up now when he's in position?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e1722	Yes, this is something we're going to follow up now. It's a red thread in everything we do, and we mean the same thing now that we meant before. This is why we are now working on a separate action plan, which will include a plan for implementing different measures relating to accessibility. So it's important for me to say that when we're going to work with our own anti-discrimination law for people with disabilities, my ambition and my goal are exactly the same as before, that we're going to come out with a very offensive, courageous policy on this with accessibility, not only in transport and ICT, but also in relation to buildings, where we're going to dry down to set deadlines, and we're going to dry out saying that that law is to represent a big distinction in Norwegian policy in relation to disability measures. But we have to do the job first, and then we're going to take the debate on this when we come up with a proposal for such a law in the autumn of 2007.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e1729	Once again, I thank the Council of State for the answer. It was good he brought the answer to this with buildings. The government announced that they would take this into the Law on Planning and Building. This is something that Norway’s Handicap Federation fears, because there has been a long time, and there has been little commitment in this area. It's been there for 25 years, and there's been very little commitment. Then I ask, how can the disabled make sure that this gets better now, when this is put back there?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e1738	I am pleased with that question, because there have been some misunderstandings about this after we said we should make our own anti-discrimination law. All types of availability are to be covered by the Anti-Discrimination Act, including the availability of buildings and facilities. But then, of course, the general provisions contained in the Anti-Discrimination Act must be followed up by the specific laws, both on the transport side, on the construction side, etc. Our advantage then is to review the Planning and Building Act in parallel with the creation of the Anti-Discrimination Act, the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs. It shall be presented at the same time as the Anti-Discrimination Act. The first special law we have the opportunity to tighten up is the Law on Planning and Building. The new anti-discrimination law will take effect immediately because it will have to be carried out in parallel.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e1743	We're moving on to question 27.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e1750	This question, from the representative Bent Höie to the Minister for Renewal and Administration, will be answered by the Minister for Labour and Inclusion as appropriate.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e1753	‘Construction firms experience difficulties in different authorities having different time-limits for their opinions/decisions in construction matters. Will the Council of State take the initiative to ensure that the Labour Inspectorate is given the same time limit as the municipal authorities to give their opinion on construction which is intended to function as jobs?’ [[four weeks]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e1760	As the president pointed out, the question was addressed to the Minister of Renewal and Administration, but was answered by me, as the work of the Labour Inspectorate is under my responsibility. I assume that the background to the question is the provision of the Planning and Building Act that regulates the obligation of the municipal building authorities – in their proceedings – to present a construction case to other authorities. Those authorities shall have a period of four weeks within which to deliver an opinion. The Planning and Building Act is within the remit of the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs, but I have been confirmed by the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs that the four-week period applies in principle to the Labour Inspectorate. However, the deadline is not so relevant in relation to the Labour Inspectorate, because in practice the Labour Inspectorate is presented relatively few cases from the municipal construction authorities. However, the Labour Inspectorate has its own construction treatment, which is therefore on its own, and is therefore in principle carried out independently of the municipal treatment. The fact that the person responsible for setting up a professional building must also apply to the Labour Inspectorate for a building permit is governed by the Working Environment Act. The purpose of a separate work permit from the Labour Inspectorate is to ensure that the working environment of the future jobs to be built can be in line with the requirements of the Work Environment Act. The Labour Law Committee, which presented its position in 2004, stated that this two-track system could appear unnecessary bureaucratic, and a comprehensive selection therefore considered that the Work Inspectorate's special work-case treatment should be included in the ordinary municipal construction procedure, provided that the ordinary construction procedure is or is capable of caring for the working environment. I can inform you that my department, in cooperation with the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs, which is responsible for the Planning and Building Act, is monitoring this. In other words, we examine whether it would be appropriate to abolish the system of a special building permit from the Labour Inspectorate, by including work environment issues in the municipal construction process. The aim is to achieve a more efficient construction process by removing unnecessary duplication of work. However, as the Labour Law Committee pointed out, there is a clear pre-requisite that the work environment concerns must be adequately addressed in such a scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e1775	I would like to thank you for your answer. I understand that the departments are working on this. The confusion about who should answer the question may well also reveal the confusion that construction companies experience in practice when they are to have answers from two authorities, and, as the Council of State was concerned, they deal with the matter in parallel with different deadlines. Thus, municipal approval will often be available after four weeks, while one will have to wait a longer time for the approval of the Labour Inspectorate. This is also reinforced by what the Council of State had to say, namely that the municipality essentially assesses the same conditions as the Labour Inspectorate. There is therefore a good basis for coordination, so that there is one authority that assesses the same situation and that any additional aspects that need to be assessed by the Labour Inspectorate should be considered separately, but within the same time limit. Can the Council say something about when this work may be completed and when it may be in place?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e1782	Yes, let me just say that I agree with the descriptions from Bent Höie. It is such that the municipality can present the case in turn to the Labour Inspectorate together with health authorities, etc. in its building proceedings It is relatively small and, to the extent that it does, the Labour Inspectorate is bound by the same four-week period. But then in the second track we have an assessment of the construction, cf. the environmental protection law. The two-track system cannot be said to be necessary if one is to ensure that the municipal construction process is of sufficient quality. There are lighting conditions, ventilation, etc. assessed both by the Labour Inspectorate and partly in the municipality. I can't operate here today with any deadline, but there is a work going on. I think I'm just as interested in getting ahead of everybody else, so that getting a solution to this as quickly as possible will be prioritised from our side.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e1789	Thank you. Then I have no further questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e1816	These questions have been postponed until the next question time. Question 17 will be answered after question 28.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e1825	This question, from the representative Kari Lise Holmberg to the Minister for Justice, will be answered by the Minister for Labour and Inclusion on behalf of the Minister for Justice.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e1828	I will be asked the following questions to the Council of State: ‘In 2005, the conditions for obtaining cheap substitutes for, inter alia, the tattoos were adorned. I have been contacted by the main character in the film ‘Tradra – Yesterday I was tattooed’. He has been working on his case since 1997 and sent a new application for the Stortinges decision in 2005. He could tell a story about a long trial period and a lot of bureaucracy. How long is the duration of proceedings for this group, and what measures have been taken to reduce the length of proceedings?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e1837	Let me just start by saying that this is a question to which I too, as Minister of Labour and Inclusion, have an commitment, related to my responsibility for national minorities. There has been broad cooperation in the Government, in particular between the Ministry of Labour and Inclusion, the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Knowledge, on these issues. In this way, it is also possible to answer the question on behalf of the Minister of Justice. Then I'll say that St.meld. No 44 for 2003-2004 and St.meld. No 24 for 2004-2005 deals with specific and more streamlined rules on low-cost compensation for war children, romanians/taters, elderly educationally-injured menses and women and orphans. Applications for cheap substitutes are submitted to the Justice Secretariat, which is the secretariat of the Grand Duchy’s lavish substitutes committee. The cases are then prepared by various professional bodies on the basis of which compensation is claimed in the individual case. For this group on which the questioner is currently involved, there may be several grounds for substitution. Depending on the grounds on which the claim for cheap substitutes is based, the case may be prepared in the Directorate for Social and Health, the Directorate for Children, Youth and Family Affairs and/or the Directorate for Education. Some cases may also be prepared in several trades where the applicant may be covered by several grounds for compensation. The lavish substitute committee of the stockbrokers first deals with the matter after all the grounds have been satisfactorily established. Such an investigation is carried out in parallel in the various disciplines involved. The government wants to ensure that the period of proceedings in the case of cheap substitutes is as short as possible, but it is also important that the case be treated in a good and reassuring manner, so that the applicant can obtain the compensation he receives in relation to the grounds that may be present. The length of the case-handling time for the lavishness claims has been unsatisfactory. Against this background, an official group was set up in April this year, which was mandated to review the length of proceedings in the various departments involved in the handling of cases. The Group of Officials has proposed several measures to reduce it. At the same time, increased resources have been allocated and resources are re-prioritized in the individual disciplines. Once the proposed measures have been implemented, inter alia: through training, etc. by the case handlers, it is an objective to reduce the period of proceedings to 14 months in the cases prepared by one or more professional establishments. The government will deploy additional resources if we see that there is a need for it. I am very concerned that these matters find their solution. However, I see that it takes some time for the cases to be satisfactorily prepared, so that the applicants get the compensation they are entitled to.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e1852	I am pleased that the Council of State signals that he will follow the matter positively and also put in additional resources if necessary. So this thing that we're talking about here is going back as far as ten years. It has to appear unintelligible to someone and everyone, and really unworthy of the human being. I have a feeling that when we talk about bureaucracy, it's often about papers going back and forth. Those who are in the group applying for cheap pay have different backgrounds, and they often need to adapt to guidance in the application process, a process that I suspect may be too complicated and too difficult in some cases, but many times I think it is unnecessary to use legal assistance in these cases. The question is, how is the obligation to provide guidance followed up?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e1861	Of course, it is difficult for me to go into the individual matter which is the starting point for the question, but I see that he has been working on the matter since 1997. As the question also states, he sent a new application for the Storting decision in 2005. As a result, this case has not been so long in the treatment system, and with a processing ambition of 14 months, it will be possible to get far in this matter as well. I fully agree that there must be no demanding procedures related to the entrance to search. There are different instances that help applicants, if any. Among other things, we have often used justice for the Tapers. It is an organisation that has received extra funding from both the Ministry of Labour and the Ministry of Inclusion and the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality, precisely in order to be a low-level sport to promote applications.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e1868	This case has had documents 10 years ago, so I think this gives a picture that things could probably have gone faster in our system. I am pleased that the Council of State has briefed on resources and measures, and is looking forward to continuing to work in this area, the national minorities. I think I know what the Council of State will answer when I ask whether he will continue to follow up positively with the Minister of Justice, so that there may be progress and swift decisions in matters that have such a long history.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e1875	Yes, of course I will. I also experience the Minister of Justice that he really doesn't need me to do a lot on him. He has a strong commitment to the matter himself. Before I went down to Stortinget, I heard that in the case of one of the other groups that – and rightly – have also been very impatient, the same as those who are educationally ill, the first cases are now finished. The procedure is starting to end, so that we can get into a pay-out position with respect to them, but it's taken a long time. It's important to make sure that it doesn't slip out again. There are positive things happening.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e1886	This question, too, from the representative of Thore A. Nistad to the Minister of Justice, will be answered by the Minister of Labour and Inclusion on behalf of the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e1889	I will be allowed to ask the Council of State the following questions: ‘Oslo police districts have been more visible and present in parts of Oslo centre during the summer, which has been appreciated by both the public, business and politicians. Now, however, the tourist season is over, and back in the cityscape in the lower part of Karl Johan's street are drug users, beggars, etc. What will the Council of State do to ensure a more visible police force in the centre of Oslo?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e1898	It is important that both the residents and the permanent residents of Oslo can travel in the outside of the city without experiencing offensive behaviour and insecurity. Conditions related to drug settings have changed little in the last year, and the number of people in the environment seems to have stabilised. I understand that the sole proprietor in the area can experience this as very stressful. However, the spring and summer months of 2006 showed an increased influx of beggars and prostitutes into the areas in – and related to – Karl Johan’s Gate. The Oslo police district therefore took targeted action in the most vulnerable areas. The Oslo police district has, ever since the heavy drug environment settled in the area in and around the Skippergate in Oslo Centre, had ear-marked crews in this area. In addition, the Oslo police district has in recent years had its own budget chapter in St.prp. No 1, i.e. the budget proposal, precisely because the Storting will have the opportunity to assess the budget framework for the Capital Police. The government is concerned that the police will further develop local cooperation on crime prevention. In this perspective, Oslo police districts cooperate closely and continuously with the Rusmitteletaten in Oslo Municipality on these issues, and have a good dialogue with, among others. staff at the injection room and in the Church’s Bymission’s café and meeting place for addicts, as well as the PRO Centre. In this context, the police’s main strategy to prevent new recruitment to the drug environment, as well as to secure the area for the public through visible and accessible police, is of increased importance.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e1907	I thank you for your answer. I am aware that there has been a lot of good work during the summer. This has been a project that was actually decided on 15 September and was then extended until 15 October. In an interview, the Vice-President of Oslo said that it was very good in Sommer-Oslo because of this project. But now it's over. What I wanted, was to hear if the Council of State perhaps intended to extend the project, so that there was an enterprise that could last the whole year, that it was not just a short project that was started because there were many tourists and summers in Oslo.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e1914	It is not the case that it is the Ministry of Justice or the Government that always assesses what kind of operational measures the police should or should not take. Clearly, there is always a dialogue between the ministry, the political authorities and the police. But within the overall budgetary framework of the Oslo police force, which the Stortinget is constantly given the opportunity to assess, Oslo police must, of course, make operational assessments. As I said, in relation to the drug environment in the Skippergate, there is a fixed route that is not linked to special measures in the summer months. People have continually dedicated that environment. Then you've had a big action in a period now in the summer months, which has been successful and positive, and which many boasts of. Of course, the Oslo Police need to assess on an ongoing basis whether setbacks are being made in relation to the targets achieved in the summer and the need for new interventions in this way.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e1921	That's right, that state council points out, that everyone's been very happy this summer. It also tells the police officer in this interview in the police newspaper that it has been a success this summer. But he's a little worried that this will end now in October. He says he hopes that this will continue beyond this date, which has now been extended until 15 October. We already see a lot coming back to the old gang in the lower parts of Karl Johan, and my question was whether there is a possibility that the Oslo Police might get funds or help from the Department to continue this good project, which they have been running for quite a long time this summer.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e1928	I feel very convinced that the right way to deal with the Oslo police is for the Storting to decide on the overall resources of the Oslo police in the context of the budgetary procedure. Then we need to have confidence in the political assessments they are making on an ongoing basis in terms of the challenges they face in the capital, and the resources they have. That's why it would be strange, I think, if the government had overruled the assessments they've made in the Oslo Police Department, to conclude this project now for the benefit of other tasks. I also think that we are going to have a very difficult situation if, every time we see some successful police operation case, we have to grant additional funding for it to go further if it is the Oslo police assessments within the overall budget framework that we should now use the resources for something else.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e1969	These questions have been postponed.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e1976	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘The government is now in charge of the financing of the logoped and audiopedagogical services. These today have the opportunity to write a bill on the public interest in the investigation and treatment of people with language and speech problems. Will the Council of State initiate an impact assessment on cochlea implants and impact on language problems that a transfer of this data responsibility to the municipalities will have?’ Will the Council of State take the initiative to provide a better overview of the needs and offers of audio-pedagogic and logo-pedagogic services before promoting a change in the law repealing the Law on Social Security § 5-10? The last paragraph was not included in the pre-submitted question.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e1989	Under the Training Act Chapter 4A and Chapter 5, municipalities and county councils are responsible for providing special education, including logo-pedagogical and audio-pedagogical services. This implies that the municipalities are already responsible for this service, so that any change does not involve the transfer of responsibility. The responsibilities of the municipalities include: to provide an overview of needs and current help measures in the field of hearing. As is known, 401 logo horses and 29 audio educators have a direct social security settlement agreement in 2006. Based on the cost, it can be estimated that there are about 120 annual works. On the other hand, the majority of logo horses and audio-pedagogues are employed in public activities, in specialised centres of competence, in municipalities and in county municipalities. Any change in the financial instrument which today gives private-practitioners and audio-pedagogues the opportunity to write their bills to the public, will support the responsibilities that municipalities and county councils already have for providing special educational services. Private-practitioners and audio-pedagogues have not been part of the municipal and county services offer, but have operated on the side of this. Municipalities and county councils therefore do not enter into agreements with private-service logo horses and audio-pedagogues. Any change in the way in which it is financed will make the liability situation clearer. The bodies responsible for the service will thus also have full financial responsibility. I'm sure the questioner hears that I have a very open attitude about what we're going to conclude with. Persons receiving cochlea implants have different training and follow-up needs. The main responsibility is also with the pedagogical-psychological service in each municipality. Many municipalities seek advice and guidance from government hearing centres. Competence centres have acute competence and can provide guidance. Each centre has its own CI team or professionals competent in the field. Some auditory centres in hospitals have audio-pedagogues that can contribute to the follow-up of people who have received cochlea implants. As you know, the proposal is described in St. pp. No 61 for 2005-2006 On local democracy, welfare and the economy in the municipal sector 2007 – i.e. the municipal proposition. The Ministry of Health and Health will now assess the input we have received in the consultation round before we finalise our position on what will happen next.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e2002	I thank the Council of State for the answer, and I am very pleased that the decision is not finally taken. I understand that there has been a delay in relation to the progress you had. Now audio-pedagogical and logo-pedical treatment is part of the post-treatment for hearing-impaired people, among others. in the case of cochlea implants, but also in the case of other groups with language defects, such as aphasia. So at least I want to define it today, there will be a kind of medically initiated medically initiated medical treatment and a second-line service. I can't see that this is a teaching task, because the aftertreatment these patients are going to have is so special. Does the Council of State believe that this should no longer be a type of post-treatment? I would also like to remind you that both audio-pedagogues and logo pedagogues have actually applied for an authorisation scheme under the Health Care Act because in this case they consider themselves to be part of the specialist healthcare service that provides a further treatment that patients actually need.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e2011	I fully agree with the representative, Mr Davøy, that post-treatment is very important, especially for some of the groups we are talking about here. There may be different needs for each individual, but the point is that this must be ensured, whether it is the municipalities or the state that is responsible or that there is an interaction between them. With regard to the specific issue of financial responsibility, I have listened to the many critical objections raised in the proposal. I'm serious about that. So I don't want to rush up anything in this area, but use the time that is necessary. As I said, I have a very open attitude to what is going to happen. That's not sure it'll be the way it was in the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e2018	I think these are positive signals. I almost want to interpret it much longer than the Council of State says. There are 22 out of 26 hearings that have gone against this. An audio teacher, with 23 patients in treatment, recently sent a letter to the knowledge minister asking how this would be organised and managed in the municipalities if all responsibility was to be placed there. The answer was that they really could not answer. They referred back to the Ministry of Health and Welfare, and this audio-pedagologist saw it as if the department had taken a position. I'm very pleased with the signals from the Council of State. I am going to follow closely, and hope that the Council of State will reach a different conclusion from that contained in the consultation note.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e2027	I listen and have big ears in this matter as well. We'll come back with the conclusion a little bit later.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e2036	I will be allowed to ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘The daily newspaper of 18 October 2006 says that the number of deaf people who have surgeryd in cochlea implants this year is going to be approx. 67, despite the fact that the Minister of Health has promised to double the figure from last year, 89. The Health Minister says to the newspaper that the numbers surprise her. "The mission was that they would operate more, and this is a trend in the wrong direction this year," she says. It is a fact that hospitals cannot cover the costs of such operations. How will the Council of State ensure that the promises are kept?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e2045	Let me immediately say that I am not satisfied with the situation in this area per. today. In general, as the chairman of the Committee is well aware, those who are qualified under the law we have shall be granted their rights. So there shouldn't be any kind of doubt. This also applies to patients who need cochlea implants, which are rights spaces. As you know, the Rikshospitalet has a national function for cochlea implants in children. I can inform you that all the kids who need it are now offered cochlea implants on both ears. It's per. October only five kids on the waiting list. They will get an offer in a very short time. For adults who need cochlea implants, the questioner is aware that they are operated at both the Rikshospitalet, Haukeland and St. Olavs Hospital. A review of the situation shows — that’s right — that 70 adult patients will be offered cochlea implants this year. The right to necessary health care shall be granted within the time limit for patients who have been given a period of time. For adults who are defined as rights replacements and where the deadline is broken, these patients will be able to receive an offer in another hospital, either in Norway or abroad. In particular, there has been a focus on the situation related to Health Mid-Norway and St. Olav's Hospital. Ten patients who are not treated at St. Olav's Hospital this year will be rights spaces. Health Mid-Norway RHF has a responsibility to ensure that they receive treatment within the prescribed period. If this is not the case, the patient will be assisted by the NAV Patient Service to find another hospital for surgery. I have also asked the Health Authority to review these matters in Health Mid-Norway. The operational capacity of adults will be expanded to a professional need estimate of approximately. 200 operations per year. This applies to both investigative, operational and follow-up capacity. The Ministry of Health and Welfare has also asked Health Mid-Norway RHF and Health Nord RHF to reach an agreement, so that patients from Health Nord can also be operated at St. Olav's Hospital. I have also commissioned the National Health Knowledge Centre to assess the treatment effect of cochlea implants and to make a diet/benefit assessment in relation to the priority regulation, including the assessment of a bilateral operation for adults. I'm sure the questioner and I agree that the follow-up is as important as the CI operation itself. The Social and Health Directorate has therefore been given the task of finding solutions for the follow-up of people with cochlea implants in the future. This is done in cooperation with the Education Directorate and the State Educational Support System. I do not share the presentation in Dagbladet that hospitals are losing money on CI operations. I would like to point out that from this year on, changes have been made to the DRG system for the financing of implants. The additional refund has lapsed and a separate DRG has been established for the insertion of cochlea implants. The activity-based reimbursement in 2006 is NOK 147 000. 100 pst. DRG funding thus amounts to NOK 370000, where EUR 200000 must be covered by the basic appropriations of the health business. But also in this area, I have an open position. If it turns out that this isn't enough, we're going to have to go through it one more time. In the 2007 mission document – the one already called the order document – to regional health companies, I would like to ask that the operational capacity be stepped up sharply, to the need that has been estimated from a professional perspective, i.e. up to 200 operations per year. years. This is the responsibility of the undertakings together to provide for it. Hand in hand with an increase in the number of operations, both the investigation and follow-up capacity of these patients must be increased accordingly.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e2068	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I'm also well aware that the Council of State is very concerned about this area. The problem is that there will be an ever-increasing debate, because signals coming from outside, that is from the health care system, are just not taking the number of operations to take place seriously enough. The Council of State answered in part a question that I had considered asking. It goes on the follow-up, which is extremely important if this is to be successful. It's also claimed that it's only in Health Middle Norway that cochlea patients are rights spaces, while they, among other things, are. in the Health West it is not. I would ask the Council of State in the 2007 order document, and not least from this interlocutory, to clarify that precisely these patients are to be treated as rights-barriers in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e2077	First of all, I just want to stress again that I am not satisfied with the situation – that operations are going so slowly – because it was clear that there was going to be much more surgery than what seems to be going on this year. It's also true, as the questioner says, that more of the patients we're talking about here are rights spaces. For Health Mid-Norway we're talking about ten. When they are not treated within the time limit, it is the responsibility of the health care provider to ensure that they are treated elsewhere — in Norway or abroad. I also like to go in and explore whether there may be differences in the definition of different health regions, for example. Middle and west. I will check it and make sure that everything is clarified as clearly as possible in the mission document that we will give to healthcare companies in January next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e2086	Once again, I thank the Council of State for the answer, and believe that it may be a good review and a good signal to send out to health companies. But I also hope that the Council of State will go thoroughly into what has to do with the economic aspect of – I kept saying – both the DRG bit related to cochlea and the funding of the training afterwards, because as I've been in the past, you should actually learn in many ways to use the hearing that you get back, or get for the first time. These things are extremely important and should in fact be seen as part of the specialist health service related to rehabilitation, and not as a teaching matter in the same way as others that should be under the Ministry of Knowledge. So I hope that the Council of State will intervene. I also hope that the Council of State will be able to inform you that this is a work that will be carried out in advance, and that no more time will have to be wasted on this now. I fear that if this takes much longer now, there are more and more people who both lose the opportunity and not least – I kept saying – have problems that they are not sure if they have surgery or not. I hope the Council of State can continue this work.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e2093	Yes, I promise. This is an area I have a lot of attention around, and I'm going to do what I can to ensure that we actually get a significant increase in the number of operations, and also ensure follow-up afterwards. I very much agree with the questioner that it does not help to operate if you do not make sure that it is good enough follow-up afterwards. There I recognise that there are very different needs, and therefore we need an offer that is adapted to the individual needs.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e2102	I have allowed myself to ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘Styret i Healthen Nord has decided that the daily surgical emergency response at the Hospital of the Mos Sea shall be suspended on 1 November. The entire political environment in Northern Ireland and the primary doctors in Wefsn, Grane and Hattfjelldal have asked that the implementation of the decision be postponed for a few months pending, among other things, the implementation of the decision. the treatment of the national health plan. Furthermore, the Minister of Health has set up a sample to assess the future of emergency services in local hospitals. Why cannot the closure be delayed pending those investigations?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e2111	Initially and in general, I would like to say that the development and conversion of hospital services is a necessary part of a modern healthcare service. Hospital operations are highly skilled, where professional and technological innovations are constantly taking place. In addition, we know that the incidence of diseases changes somewhat in the population and therefore also the need for different services for the population. We have determined that we should have a decentralised hospital service in Norway. It should just be missing, as our country looks. I have also underlined that in my governance towards regional health companies. According to Health Nord, in the case of the hospital in the Mosjøen, a complete conversion work has been started, including: to establish new offers to patient groups where there was a previous undercapacity or lack of offer. According to Health Nord, this investment is about 40 million. kr, e.g. to a joint emergency department, a relief unit, rehabilitation services, geriatrics and a centre for learning and mastering chronically ill patients. It's, as I'm familiar with it, completed a considerable effort to develop services to priority groups. In addition, I am aware that the hospital is paying for advanced treatment within day surgery. The changes in emergency response are one element of overall development and conversion at the hospital. In this case there has been a development work, which the representative Sahl is certainly familiar with. A decision on the conversion dates back to 2003, when there was another government at the rudder. However, I have been informed that there are now differing views on how many patients are affected by the transformations adopted in the sea. On that basis, I have asked Health North to engage in dialogue with those who have other numbers, so that I can get a statement on what is the actual situation. In general, I have to say that there will always be ongoing development processes and investigations in different areas of the hospital sector. As I said at the outset, it is necessary to develop the offer in line with the needs of the population. It's on that basis and what I know today – I stress ‘what I know today’ – that I don't see it as right to change the decision that dates back to 2003, sail if I'm going to set up a group to go through the emergency functions of the local hospitals. At the same time, I will not rule out future changes affecting the emergency functions, both at this hospital and at other hospitals, either as a result of the work of the group or for other reasons. I would like to stress that I am now following developments very closely, and I welcome a clarification regarding the number of patients affected by the hospital in question.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e2126	I thank you for your answer. I thank the Minister for being willing to go into the problem and look at the figures. It is quite right that there has been a development since 2003, but the realities of what was adopted in 2003 were, of course, deferred. They have been put off waiting for us to get better transport conditions. The starting point for my question is that we've been informed that one to four patients per month arrive at night, i.e. the emergency, must be forwarded. We've gone closer to the numbers and what's now on the table, and we see that bed rooms are being closed. This means that ordinary surgery that has otherwise been performed, but which requires that someone stay there, is not performed, and then the number is extended to three to four per. day(s) Once it's up, it's about a 1,600 patients a month that's going to be forwarded. After I have been told, this will result in extra expenses of between 5 million and 8 million. kr for the hospital. I want to ask if there are these numbers the minister is now investigating.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e2135	I can confirm that. I don't think it's lucky in a case anyway, when we talk about patients, that there are different numbers. Then I think everyone's earned that a person is trying to agree on what's really real. That's also the background, as I said before, that I've asked Health North for an explanation. They have notified me today that they are going to start immediately and sit down with those who have other opinions on this matter, so that one gets this up on the table as soon as possible. And then we just get to take it from there.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e2140	I would like to thank you for the opportunity now that we get the right numbers on the table. I can show that the director of Health North said when he was met with these numbers, that he didn't know about them, so he couldn't comment on them. In meetings that the Northern Bench has had with Health Nord, we have only been given one-four patients per month. It is clear that this leads to a completely different conclusion from what we are now seeing, compared to how this affects the hospital. In addition, we know there's a reinforced feeding room there today. In the future, there will only be a midwife's birthplace, without the possibility of emergency Caesarean cuts, which means a lot to the female population. My question to the Minister finally goes on the date, which is approaching very quickly: if the figures that are now on the table are correct, and it is right that it has such a negative impact on the population in the vicinity of the sea, can the Minister be willing to wait for the emergency investigation and then take a position, like for other hospitals?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e2149	I don't want to speculate now, until I have the numbers on the table. For the time being, the decisions taken have been taken. But it's important to get the right numbers on the table, and I'm, as I said, concerned that we're going to get it as fast as possible. And then we have to take it from there. In general, I have to say that now we're putting down a completely necessary sample, I mean, to go through the local hospitals and what they're going to contain, can't block what may be necessary changes along the way, because this work needs to take some time. It won't take very long, but it has to take some time. But it's in general. In this case, I am following developments closely and attending to an early clarification of the figures.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e2160	This question, from the representative Jan-Henrik Fredriksen to the Minister of Health and Welfare, will be raised by the representative Vigdis Giltun.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e2163	We will continue in the same area, and I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Health: ‘Avisa Finnmarken refers a note to the management of Health Nord, sent by Director Knut E. Schrøder at the University Hospital of North Norway. Schrøder calls for the settlement of local hospitals in Kirkenes, Lofoten, Stokmarknes and Narvik. This will mean a drastic reduction in hospital provision for the local population in Northern Norway. Can the Council of State guarantee that these hospitals will have facilities to protect the security and needs of the population and that they will not be closed?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e2172	As you know, there are nine local hospitals in Health Nord, a specialised hospital in Bodø and a university hospital in Tromsø. In a decentralised specialist health service in a country with our demography and geography, it is essential that we have well-functioning local hospitals. The government says in the Soria Moria statement that no local hospital should be closed. This is true, and of course it also applies to the hospitals in Kirkenes, Lofoten, Stokmarknes and Narvik. At the same time, in line with Storting's assumptions, I have made demands for financial balance for businesses, but not for each hospital. In Health North, there is no doubt that one is facing quite enormous challenges to meet these requirements. I'm aware that Health North is now working to stop the negative results. I am also aware that the Health Nord Board has asked the directors to propose measures that can help improve the economy. The note from Director Schrøder at the University Hospital in North Norway is an internal note to the board, where Schrøder talks about possible measures that can help improve the economy of the health region. I would also say that there is usually a great distance between an internal note and actual decision. Nor do I know that the proposals to which the representative refers are being further worked on in this note. They are clearly contrary to my clear governance messages to regional health businesses. As I set out in the National Health Plan for the period 2007-2010, the professional content of local hospitals should be adapted to local conditions and the needs of the population. We stand, among others. to a significant increase in the number of elderly and more suffering from chronic conditions of disease. These are patients who need hospitals close to where they live, and the services of local hospitals need to be more targeted at patient groups such as those in treatment. sick elderly and chronically ill. The services of local hospitals must be integrated into one whole, both against the other specialist health services and against the community health service. In addition, medical and technological changes will result in changes in the division of tasks between the different levels of service over time. Local hospitals, together with the other services, must take care of the security and needs of the population. In local hospital conversion processes, we have experience that discussions have occurred in particular in connection with changes in emergency functions. Against this background, I will set up in a short time a working group to examine how the tasks of local hospitals, in particular those related to emergency functions, can be clarified in an even better way. I'm going to pay a lot of attention to how to secure and develop modern local hospitals in the future, local hospitals that can play a central role in our decentralised healthcare.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e2185	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer, but I would like to stress that there is a great deal of concern in the population when there is uncertainty about hospital provision. One of the important functions that local hospitals should have, at least according to the Medical Association and very many other professionals, is just the emergency function. It is therefore a little confusing when big city politicians Olav Gunnar Ballo in the paper of 13 October say that one should look at ‘if emergency surgery should take place in the major hospitals’ and that most people want to go to university hospitals. He also believes that the hospital should have a patient base of 30,000 or more, and that in the future, local hospitals should have medical departments that can handle, for example: myocardial infarction and pneumonia. If Ballo's proposal is passed, there will be consequences for Hammerfest Hospital in West Finland, and also for very many other local hospitals. Acute surgery will also be an important part of the function of local hospitals in the future, in order to take into account the needs of patients and not other conditions. [[The President clubs.]] When one of the government parties proposes changes endangering the existence of local hospitals [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e2192	The government has said very clearly in the Soria Moria statement that all local hospitals will pass. No one should be put down. It's stuck, and we're going to keep it. Then, of course, like everyone else, I register that there is considerable concern about some local hospitals around the country, related to changes, to changes and, in particular, to the question of emergency services and, to some extent, to food supplies. That's what I've taken the most seriously, and it's on the background that I, as I said, will, in a very short time, put down a sample that's going to go through this, a wide-ranging selection of professionals, with representatives of employees, of interest organisations and for some of the local communities that are most affected by what's happening now, a selection that's going to give me the position once not too far into next year. And then we're going to have to go through what's the situation. But what's absolutely certain is that we can't have one definition of emergency services that should be at all local hospitals throughout the country, because our country is so different, and the distances are so different. Local hospitals are, for example, also Ullevål University Hospital, and of course it must have a different emergency response than for example. a part of the hospitals in Finnmark or Stensby near Eidsvoll, e.g.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e2199	I thank you for the answer, but I would like to stress that there is no one who expects the local hospitals to have exactly the same function. What you expect is a minimum requirement for what you can find in a local hospital. Similarly, there have also been some concerns about the district medical centre, which is now so barbarian about crews, that they are closed on weekends and at evenings in some places, and there is hardly one medical position. That's what was supposed to be a DMS in Halden. So there is a need to clarify both what the DMS and local hospitals should contain as a minimum, and I hope that we will soon be ready.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e2206	That's also the background for me dropping that sample very quickly, because we need clarification in this area. We need to create a little bit more calm and a little bit more predictability. I have great faith in those I'm now putting into that sample, that they'll be able to come up with something that I think will help create more consensus, more predictability and more calm in the future. So I look forward to that work, and to the setting they're going to come with.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e2211	Question 27 has been dealt with earlier.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e2218	I am delighted to ask the Minister for Agriculture and Food the following questions: ‘New actors in the dairy sector that the Q-meierines and Synnove Find have fought for a number of years to establish themselves as competitors in a market that has been and is dominated by a major player, Tine. The companies experience that they are being countered by Tine and the agricultural authorities and do what they can to avoid increasing competition in this market. What will the Council of State do to ensure that competition in the dairy sector is sufficient?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e2227	Like the opinion of the previous government, it is my opinion that the state-determined framework conditions collectively facilitate competition in the dairy sector under transparent and comparable conditions, as the Stortinget has foreseen. I can categorically reject the fact that there should be some form of systematic counter-working of the Q-Meierienen and Synnovene Find by the agricultural authorities, as the representative Kielland Asmyhr suggests. The activities of the officially established milk market organisation have been constantly targeted at ensuring the interests of operators outside the Tine system, and thus necessarily at the expense of Tine’s interests. As an example, I can mention that there is a very comprehensive system of back-testing of Tine's margins in the industrial processing of dairy products. If the back-testing shows certain deviations in the margins of Tine in relation to the assumptions, duties and subsidies under the so-called milk price equalisation scheme are set off. This means that the charging and subsidy rates are corrected so that operators outside the cooperative are given conditions of competition as provided for. In other words, fees and subsidies are recalculated only to the extent that the back-up shows that the back-up would be favourable to the operators outside the dairy cooperative. Consequently, through the back-up, independent operators obtain a systematic advantage, precisely in order to strengthen their ability to compete with Tine. Within the milk price equalisation scheme, Q-Meieriene is the only major actor other than Tine, which is based on milk produced by its own suppliers. The establishment of viable competition in this market segment has proved to be a response to specific challenges. Therefore, the authorities have provided for two specific grants which in practice are specific to the Q-Meierien. This concerns, respectively, a special capital compensation scheme and an additional distribution grant scheme. In the period 1999–2005, almost 150 million were paid under these schemes. kr in such special grants to the Q-Meieriene. For 2006, it can be expected that such grants will amount to approximately 35 million. kr. In addition to these special arrangements, all actors, including Tine, are faced with the same conditions. In the price equalisation scheme, all dairies are faced with the same levies and subsidies within each area of application of the milk. The scheme is otherwise self-financing and also covers subsidies for the collection of milk and for the distribution of human milk. Furthermore, the very structure of the scheme, which was established under the previous government, is today based on the fact that all actors, including Tine's industry, should be able to purchase milk from Tine Raw materials at one and the same price, under transparent and comparable conditions. This and the previous government have had an assessment of a simplification approach, which would, at the same time, ensure a level playing field in at least as good a way as today. This arrangement would replace today's set-off with a standard capital return claim directed at Tine's industry, and with further penalties if Tine did not meet the conditions. As has been explained in St. Prp. No 1 for 2006-2007, it is in this context that the authorities are now working on a plan for the valuation of Tine. From this, I assume that the current system of back-testing and back-up is being continued until further notice, until one has been found out a system that can replace the control system we have today. The evaluation of Tine may be carried out during 2007 and could be an important contribution to the ongoing efforts to ensure competition in the dairy market. In the question from the representative Kielland Asmyhr, it is implied that he does not share my view or the previous government's view that the collective scheme facilitates competition on equal terms. In this respect, I would like to point out that it will never be such that the State can guarantee the profitability of private companies, even in this area. In addition to the established public framework conditions, the economy of a company is even more dependent on strategic choices and actual adjustments both in terms of prices of raw materials and finished products, arrangements for distribution, technical operations of installations and others.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e2242	I have to say that I am very disappointed with the answer, because in the Council's answer there is nothing to suggest that he is in any way taking criticism of the current system. It is clear that there can be serious questions as to whether there is equal treatment in this market when both the Q-Meierienen and Synnøve Find have found it appropriate to sue the State for justice. It is good that the Council of State wants to maintain the post-control system. We also consider it a very important system to ensure that the private actors here are treated in a non-discriminatory manner. I noticed, however, what the Council of State said to the VG yesterday: ‘The Minister of Agriculture says he sees the economic situation in the Q-Meierien as serious.It is regrettable, but none of the three major actors, Tine, Synnøve Find and Q-Meierien, are satisfied with today’s situation.’ When none of the actors in this market are satisfied with the situation, does the Council of State understand the need for changes and a thorough review of the whole system?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e2258	As I explained in my main post, I have just tried to create a more transparent arrangement that will create the predictability that the actors here are asking for. There has been a demanding process, which has been started before my time, and I have tried to continue it. It seems time-consuming to put in place a system of valuation of Tine and a capital calculation based on it, but I am prepared to contribute to the simplification and predictability of the milk market. I note that the industry in general seems to have low earnings, and that is, of course, a challenge that everyone involved is taking seriously and to which they relate.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e2265	It's important that you get an objective valuation of Tine, so that you can figure out the right milk price, so that those who buy milk from Tine don't have to be in and pay for the capital return in Tine. There has been some controversy about how the department communicates with actors. This famous Forsell offer has caused a lot of unrest. Does the Council agree that the Ministry has communicated too poorly with the Q-Meieriene when one can have such a different reality of what has been said in a meeting about what an offer includes? I now ask the Council of State to take responsibility for this poor communication by the Department, clean up and meet the Q-Meieriene.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e2274	I do not agree that there has been a bad communication from the department in this matter. A major demand from the Q-Meieriene was made to the Ministry on 7 March, which received feedback on 29 March. An oral invitation to the Q-Meierienen to promote an application was given. August 18th – I repeat August 18th – tells the Q-Meierien that they will apply, and October 18th there was a brief application on a page per page. E-mail.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e2279	Then we go back to question 17.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e2286	This question, from the representative of André Oktay Dahl to the Minister for Justice, will be answered by the Minister for Renewal and Administration as appropriate.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e2289	I am glad that we have good privacy practices on Stortinget after the long-term question that I had to get away from here when it comes to storing video surveillance. «In a short time, the size of the EFC Directive will be taken into account [[2004/52/EC]] Will the Government come back to Stortinget with a big message about privacy, so that we get a general discussion of this topic?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e2298	I like the question. Taking care of privacy for individuals is an important challenge in most areas of society, and it is also a challenge in the transport sector. When it comes to the specific handling of the EFC Directive, I will refer to question No. 10, to my colleague Liv Signe Navarsete, whom she responded to today. As her answers show, the consent proposition will give a description of the relevant data protection issues. Of course, data supervision is a central contributor to the preparation of that consent proposal. I very much agree with the representative, Octay Dahl, that it is important to have an overall discussion of the challenges we face in the area of privacy. This view is shared by me and the Government with both the Data Protection Authority and the Privacy Department, and we have specific discussions with colleagues in both the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Transport. But I think it's too early to conclude that we should have a separate message about the case, as the only option. I would like to tell the representative, Oktay Dahl, that in different ways we are going to discuss the privacy issues in Stortinget in time to come. First of all, I'm going to send a big message about IT policy before Christmas. She's going to have an own chapter on privacy, with fundamental discussions where one will weigh different concerns against another. Hopefully, the message is so opportune that Stortinget takes on the challenge and discusses privacy, even if it is related specifically to the IT sector. Then we in the Ministry of Justice now have an ongoing back-testing of personal data laws, where one also discusses data protection issues both in principle and in concrete terms in relation to entirely concrete proposals for changes in promises. So, as late as the last Friday in the State Council, I would like to ask the Annual Communications to the Data Protection Authority and the Privacy Department, which is also an excellent reason for the Stortinget to just take the broad debate on these questions. Then I'd like to challenge Dahl to take that chance, to use the opportunities that Stortinget now has. These are at least two concrete messages that come before Christmas. Now I haven't dated the time the Ministry of Justice comes with that regulation, but here's a lot of possibilities, and then we use them first. And then we'll see if there'll be any further need to present your own messages on the question.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e2315	I thank you for the answer, which I perceive to be partly positive. I have also recorded, as the Council of State points out, that the Ministry of Transport, on its side, has addressed the poor dialogue that has existed between the Data Protection Agency and the Road Directorate on the implementation of the directives on traffic monitoring. Then, like the other cases raised by the Council of State, the issue of privacy will be dealt with. However, as I said, there is more than one good reason to believe that this does not apply specifically to the transport sector or to the IT sector. The government has then refused, but I see the Council of State as a bit more positive now. A short time ago, we dealt with freedom of expression in the recognition that internationalisation, open borders and new technologies face entirely different challenges. I guess the cartoon debate showed that maybe we could go even deeper into it when we first discussed it. I repeat the call: will the Council of State clarify relatively quickly whether, when dealing with the issues referred to, she will take the initiative to present a big message, so that we are clearly anchored here in the Storting at a more comprehensive level?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e2326	I fully agree with the representative Dahl that the privacy issues are cross-sectoral – I think I used my answer to say 100 pst. Agreed with Dahl's representative. He himself refers to a very concrete example of the area of transport, which is handled through a matter that comes to Stortinget. Then I show that there are two issues, the Privacy Policy and the Data Protection Authority's annual reports, which have already been presented to Stortinget. They provide us with a basis for a cross-sectoral debate in the United Kingdom on privacy, which I am absolutely asking the Storting to take. In addition, there may be a sector debate, but at the same time IT intervenes with new technological solutions in as many areas for us as citizens. So I want to say that there will be a cross-sectoral chapter, even if it comes in a big message about IT policy. And then maybe we're going to follow document number. The 8th proposal from the Left on the Privacy Commission. I thought it was very exciting. So here we have all the possibilities to follow the question without submitting a big-time message.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e2335	It's probably possible to do a lot of piecewise and divided. I see it as still being prepared to do it piece by piece and split and leave it to the minority on the Stortinget to make sure to have an overall debate. That challenge is to take the minority of the Storting, and I hope that the government in the separate debates will follow up. How will the Council of State try to coordinate the various issues? It is true that the Department of the Council of State has a clear coordinating responsibility. It's a task that I hope the Council of State is aware of. Today's technology would be a dream for any Stasi or Gestapo agent, but you don't have to go to previous dictatorships to find out about people's urge to sniff and check out each other. I see it as important that the Council of State is busy with the Internet, but what I am asking for is what initiative the Council of State will take to ensure that it becomes an overall review, regardless of whether it becomes in a big message. What concrete initiatives will she take to have a broader debate perhaps in the Government and in consultation and dialogue with the Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e2342	It is a little strange that the representative has decided in advance that the only way we can have a debate on privacy is by the government presenting a case of our own. Now I've made several different offers here. I'm making a point. The Minister of Justice is working on his own law review, and I have also submitted his annual reports to the Data Protection Department and the Data Protection Authority. There are three brilliant possibilities to just discuss privacy in a superior and broad perspective. Let's take that opportunity first, and if the representative Dahl still thinks that we haven't discussed enough about privacy, well, we'll see if we're going to submit our own message. But I really want to encourage the representative Dahl to use the instruments we have. Perhaps these annual messages can be improved, made more active, but make good suggestions and comments to them, and we should discuss it. But having decided in advance that an own big message about privacy is the only possible way to get a debate on this, I would say is a little limited in this very interesting discussion.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-25.ana.ud1587e2347	Then Stortinget has dealt with case No. 1 on the agenda.
