ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12.ana.ud2623e48	Honourable co-representatives! Former Major Astri Sverdrup Rynning is dead, 91 years old. Astri Rynning was born on 10 May 1915 in Sandefjord. She graduated from Artium in 1934 and took a legal examination in 1940. In 1945 she was appointed Secretary of the Ministry of Justice, following the practice of the Attorney General and the Judge-Rapporteur. In the period 1952-1953 she was an established sorenist in Jarlsberg and was then appointed Chief of Bureau of the Ministry of Justice in 1956. In 1963 she became a city court judge in Oslo. Astri Rynning became early political engaged and represented the Right in Oslo City Board for several periods. From 1963 to 1967 she was an alternate member of the Oslo Presidency. In 1965, she was elected the first alternate for the Right in Oslo. When Kåre Willoch entered as a member of the government Borten, Astri Rynning moved in as a permanent meeting representative and met at Stortinget throughout the period until the fall of 1969. At Stortinget, Astri Rynning was a member of the Justice Committee. So she was given ample opportunity to take advantage of her broad competence as a lawyer, as well as as as a magnificence representative. But her field of interest at Stortinget was far from limited to the jessen. In addition to her legal competence, she brought with her a broad commitment to important issues such as women's and gender equality and defence policy. She had experience of important positions, including leadership positions, in organisations such as National Council of Norwegian Women and Voluntary Preparedness of Women. Astri Rynning was not among those who topped the statistics on the number of posts in the Stortinge, but she always made sure to express her opinions in matters that engaged her. In 1969, Astri Rynning chose to return to the judiciary, now as a judge of Eidsivating. In 1978 she became a teamman in the same place, and in the years 1980 to 1985 she was a first - teamman. She retired from her retirement in 1985, but continued as an extraordinary laurel until she was 75 years old. Astri Rynning had a long line of trust, both in public and in a number of organisations. It is not possible to give a comprehensive overview of all her duties. Let it be enough to mention the chairmanship of the Committee on Animal Testing, the management board of the Losing Board, the senior management board of the City 2 of Oslo, and the position as a member of the National Board of Pays as examples of the breadth of her commitment. She was also chairman of the Norwegian Judiciary Association for many years. Astri Rynning was appointed Commander of the Order of St. Olav in 1984. Astri Rynning was able in an excellent way to combine the role of judge and official with a strong social commitment, which she channeled through political work in the city council, in the Stortinget and, until recently, in the Oslo Right. Former Major Sigrid Helen Røed Utkilen is dead, almost 91 years old. Sigrid Utkilen was born on January 15, 1916, in Winnipeg, Canada. After high school and nursing school, she took nursing school. She had completed her education as a Red Cross Sister in 1940, but only came to use this education to a small extent in professional terms. Apart from a period as a school sister from 1959 to 1966, she dedicated herself to the task of mother and vicar. At the same time, she was actively involved in social and humanitarian work, among others. with the chairmanship of the National Association of Public Health, the Red Cross and the Maritime Commission in the 1950s, 1960s and 1970s. Sigrid Utkilen represented the Right in the Fjell municipal government from 1967 to 1971 and was naturally also particularly concerned with social and health issues in this context. In 1969, she was elected the first alternate for the Right in Hordaland. She met several times as an alternate until January 1973, when she moved up as a representative at Kjeld Langeland's death. The Sigrid Utkilen was elected as a major representative in the 1973 elections and re-elected in 1977. At Stortinget, Sigrid Utkilen was first a member of the Church and Education Committee. After the 1973 election, she became a member of the Social Committee, where from 1977 she was also a secretary. From 1977 to 1981 she was also a member of the enlarged Foreign and Constitutional Committee. She was a member of the Nordic Council of 1978, after being an alternate in the previous period. She was delegated to the UN General Assembly in the autumn of 1977. At Stortinget, Sigrid Utkilen was primarily involved in social and health policy. She was particularly concerned with the care of the elderly, and there is no exaggeration to say that she was among the first to stress the need for a stronger commitment to geriatry in the health care system, not least when it came to emphasising geriatrics in the medical study and increasing access to specialists in the field. She was also strongly concerned with ensuring good working conditions for voluntary organisations in the social and health field and stressed the value of not least the diaconal institutions representing society. Sigrid Utkilen continued his commitment even after she left Stortinget. She was a member of the Board of Senior Care until 1984 and then a member of the State's Senior Care Council until 1989. She also had important trust in the National Association for Public Health and was in the board for Tubbrim, while she was active in the Mission behind the Iron Curtain and in the Church's Emergency Aid. She was chairman of the Fjell Right from 1981 and then engaged in the then Right Retirement Association, where she was president from 1983. She was an honorary member of today's Senior Røres Landsförbund. Sigrid Utkilen has been awarded the King's medal in gold for his efforts. Sigrid Utkilen was an unusually accessible person who was pleased with many, both co-representatives and employees in the house. She was not just socially engaged. She also had "social skills" in rich monn. At the same time she could be authoritative enough, with strong opinions about her heart matters and with the ability to fight for them. Nevertheless – the co-humanity and the good smile were never far away. Sigrid Utkilen leaves many good memories of Stortinget. We remember Astri Sverdrup Wrinkling and Sigrid Utkilen for their action on the Stortinget and brighten peace over their memory. The representatives heard the President's commemorative speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12.ana.ud2623e103	At the request of the Committee on Transport and Communications, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 2 hours and 5 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 45 minutes, Progress Party 25 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Center Party 10 minutes and Left 10 minutes. In addition, the President proposes a speaking time of up to 5 minutes to members of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers of each party group and five lines with replies after the contributions of members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12.ana.ud2623e116	First, let me comment generally on jobs and progress in the Committee, which has appeared to be very effective. I can justify that not much work is being done on the committee, simply because we have a majority government that has laid down the framework, which does not open up negotiations beyond what the Government wants, either in the finance committee or in the technical committees. Therefore, the Committee has split into two fractions. It is the government parties on the one hand, which stand firm on the Government’s arrangements without significant changes – if there are any changes at all – and then it is the opposition parties, which have in some areas come together, but the opposition parties have also promoted their own alternatives. I think it's a little sad that we can't take more responsibility for infrastructure and transport in this country, in a committee that should initially have competence in this area. But when it is said: I have registered that we have a sad investigation in the newspaper today. That study shows that six out of ten people are afraid to die or be seriously injured in traffic in Norway. This is a study done by Norsk Response for Vesta Insurance. It also reflects what is Norwegian infrastructural standards, and especially on our roads. So it's just that we're still in the situation that we have a massive backlog -- let me just call it a downfall, as it is, on our roads, which the sitting government doesn't want to deal with, and where there's been a misunderstanding for many, many years. We have a aftermath and a decline of nearly 40-50 billion kroner on our tribal roads. We have no investment needs of nearly NOK 300 billion, and we do not seem to be able to resolve it significantly within next year's budget either. I have recorded that the government and government parties have been very busy calling the budget for 2007 historic. I've tried as best as I can, with positive tranny eyes, to look for the historical in this budget, especially for what would raise the standard of our infrastructure. Unfortunately, there is minimal history on that side, although I must be allowed to say that we are of course satisfied that the Government attaches great importance to increasing the budget on road maintenance. But what's happening there is nothing but stopping further decay on our road network. We're going to stop decay. That in itself can be a comfort to many, because then at least it won't get worse. But in a situation where only 5 pst. at least the Progress Party is not particularly satisfied with the budget, to put it that way. If one is to look for something historical, it must be that this government, with the Senter Party at the head, actually, through tolls in 2007 exceeds the level of its own ordinary national road investment, and has now set up a new practice, with the Senter Party at the head, where you can demand 100 pst. toll financing of national roads. It is historical — historically weak, although it is also followed by a rhetoric that gives the impression that the national transport plan is being followed up. Of course it won't. What the government lacks, and what the Progress Party has, and for which the Progress Party is criticized, is a political will and a desire to build a road network in Norway with state funding in line with the law, instead of doing what previous governments have done, and what the government is doing – it skips responsibility and sends the bill for a total of 4 800 million. kr for the next year to consumers. It's not a bet. It's simply a trick when you don't even have the power to build the road network with government funding. The progress party will be criticised. But we don't have more money than others. We have just as much money to spend as the other parties have. It's just that we have a greater willingness to use these means that everyone has and can dispose of. In addition, the Progress Party has a different approach angle. We're not talking about our money. We're talking about the people's money. At least we're not talking about the politicians' money. Next year, there will be NOK 2 100 billion in the oil fund, and road investments will be documented to be socio-economically profitable. So putting off a small part – for I would say it is – the way the Progress Party does, of the return on real investment in roads rather than today's passive financial positions abroad, we think is quite reasonable. It makes sense, and it's socio-economically profitable. What surprises me the most is that it's the Center Party that is at the head and uses all its resources and all its energy to counter that kind of policy. It surprises me. But fortunately, there are more and more people in the trade unions and economists who now see that the Progress Party is also on the right track in this field. I record that the Central Party is constantly defending itself that all tolls are introduced on the basis of local initiatives. When – if I am allowed to say so – will the Central Party Council take on board what its own local politicians and state politicians say? This is not a real local initiative. It's a direct blackmail from the Central Party that makes the Central Party's local politicians crawl to the cross and accept tolls, even though local politicians from the Central Party admit that this is not the solution they want primarily. It is extortion, because the state violates its responsibilities in the Norwegian Road Code. The party has tried and tried in many ways to find new approaches that can satisfy the government parties and other parties, to look with new eyes and find solutions to get the world's most modern road structure. But nothing is useful. Whatever proposal we had to make, it goes against the two arguments that have gone back in the last few years: lack of capacity and pressure in the economy. We've also figured out the solution. I record that the Central Party and perhaps the Council of State – if I can allow myself to say that, using its Secretary of State to write reading articles in all the localities of this country – has bombed fundamentally. Here, the Council of State and the Secretary of State have pulled too quickly from the hip by claiming that the Progress Party does not have cover to remove the toll. This week we're going to give off the balancing proposition, and here comes the two very well-worked proposals from the Progress Party, to which the Centre Party has the opportunity to join. I cannot interpret the attack from the Center Party on the Advance Party around in the various local ways as anything other than that they are disappointed that the Progress Party has not been given the consent to remove the toll debt. There are possibilities to do that. We can cancel the debts, either above or below the line. That's the discussion they have in this government, as in previous governments, even if one did it in a creative way when it was the Gardermoban. But if it doesn't, at least it can be a solution that the government might take over the debt and pay interest and instalments over 15 to 20 years. At least that would not give it the pressure in the economy, and at least it would not affect the lack of capacity that is claimed to exist. I conclude by saying that it lacks will. I know the Senter Party has a wish, but they lack will. I will challenge the Council of State on this in the further debate today and through the change of line. I would like to promote the proposals that the Progress Party is behind in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12.ana.ud2623e147	The representative Per Sandberg has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12.ana.ud2623e152	Throughout the year, we have witnessed that the members of the Committee on Transport and Communications of the Progress Party have made proposals for representatives and for their own motions for resolutions. These have been grossly financed by the State in full by toll projects and toll cancellations. The proposals of the Progress Party prove to be, unlike the people most could be led to believe, just to be games for the gallery. The representative of Sortevik also admits this when he said to the newspaper on 6 December that the Progress Party has not made enough money to erase all the toll. We have also read from the budget that the Progress Party has not spent enough money on all the projects they have promised over the year. I should like to ask the representative, Mr Sandberg, whether it is true that the Progress Party has not followed up its proposals in the budget? Why doesn't the Progress Party keep what they promise?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12.ana.ud2623e159	In my main post, I pointed to it. The Progress Party has never in any budgetary position proposed to remove the toll, but we have promoted it as a single proposal, in line with and in accordance with the same principle as for the Gardermoban, for example. We're not so concerned about whether we're going to take this over the line or below the line. That is why I now say that both the representative of Wickholm and the Central Party in particular have bombed, because the year is still not over. Now we are dealing with the balancing proposition in Stortinget, which shows that this country is going very well, that we have a solid surplus, and that we have not used up the money granted by the Government in 2006. Here there will be proposals from the Progress Party to either remove the toll debt in its entirety or the Government will come back with proposals that the government can take over the debt without taking the entire sum at once, and only get the cost of interest and deductions for 15 to 20 years.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12.ana.ud2623e164	I had hoped that the Progress Party also had a bit of white measurement in the portfolio in its post, but there was a lot of black paint, once again – despite the fact that the Progress Party has subsidiaryly supported in the previous period what the Government is presenting today. As crazy as it sounds, it can't be anyway. My question is linked to the growing problems that climate creates, among other things. Here in Norway. We see it in the West, where people really get to know what it's like when it rains a lot and the climate is out of balance. The Progress Party is providing a budget that will increase the number of people standing in car queues and pollution, because they cut DKK 1.9 billion to rail – so we're going to get even more greenhouse gas emissions than what we already have. What is the Progress Party's answer to this? Is it still that climate is not a problem, or will the Progress Party actually be involved in supporting the Western Progress Party that wants a high-speed rail?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12.ana.ud2623e173	First, I have to take it with the subsidiary aid. I assume that the representative Langeland is thinking about the national transport plan. One cannot expect the Progress Party alone to follow up the National Transport Plan. When the Government departs from it, it must be acceptable for the Advance Party to do so. The Government does not follow up the national transport plan. They are fundamentally failing in what was important there – investments on the road. The government has now even taken the investment funds contained in the national transport plan and transferred them to maintenance. It was the only white paint I had. I fully agree with that. We agree that maintenance should be lifted. In addition, I think the representative of Langeland should read our budget with more positive eyes. The progress party has moved significantly in relation to the railway. We have about the same budget in 2007 as Langeland had in 2006. What Langeland then says is that the government's budget for the railways in 2006 was a disaster and would lead to a massive increase in queues in the big cities. It will not be in 2006, and we do not think it will be with the budget of the Progress Party in 2007.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12.ana.ud2623e180	The setting shows that the Christian People's Party is together with the Progress Party on some comments and on some suggestions in the vote. But the overall picture is enough that the distance is quite large between the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party in terms of the investment in the transport sector. This is particularly true of the previous replicator, namely the relationship with rail investment and public transport. I want to focus in particular on what is involved in public transport, and reward schemes for the big cities to raise the number of passengers on the collective means of transport that go there today. There, the Progress Party writes in its suspension that the increase in the grant of reward schemes is disproportionate. A case information here is that the Government does not increase, but they cut significantly in this arrangement. There's no increase. The progress party is cutting even more. They're cutting everything and ruining the whole system. What is the attitude of the Progress Party to increase public transport in the major cities of Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12.ana.ud2623e189	Let me first say to the representative Sahl that, with regard to the promotion party's commitment to rail in 2006 and 2007, it is above what the Christian People's Party had in its proposal for a national transport plan. As we made a deal with the red-green parties, we have a significantly larger stake on rail than the Christian People's Party wanted in the Bondevik government. I don't feel that there is such a distance between the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party in the setting. It's just that we have bigger appropriations, and we want a bigger bet and to take it in the right order. First of all, we want to give priority to the thing that's urgent on the road, and next round, we want to take the other initiatives on the railway. In the case of reward schemes, the Progress Party believes that we should look more closely for rewards and positive tools. I ask the representative Sahl to read an excellent article in the Evening Post, where our transport agency in Oslo is proposing to introduce tax relief by making the employer pay more for collective travel for their employees.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12.ana.ud2623e198	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12.ana.ud2623e202	The government has a very high priority for road safety. The transport sector is a major sector and is involved in many sectors. I want to mention health to prevent road accidents and good roads to prevent fatal accidents. The Government of Stoltenberg therefore proposes a historical commitment to trade in this draft budget. The government's proposal represents an increase of DKK 2.5 billion compared to the Bondevik government's 2006 budget proposal. This is the first time that some government has fulfilled the promises and objectives of the National Transport Plan in total for the State Road Service and the Railway Agency. For several years, low appropriations have led to inadequate maintenance of roads and railways. Therefore, the Government proposes to increase the maintenance appropriations. The economy wants safe and efficient transport to reach the markets where products from districts are to be sold. It is important for this government to facilitate a rich business life throughout the country. If there are jobs and good welfare offers, people will choose to live in the districts. But a prerequisite for this to happen is that there are also good transport offers. To underline the business needs for good communications, I can mention an example from a great country called Hedmark. The company Moelven BaudModule AS must apply for a derogation in order to transport its houses out of the county. Without a derogation, Moelven BaudModule would have been forced to bring about an unfortunate reduction in domestic industrial activity. I want to hit a blow for the taxi industry, which is an important part of the transport system in the districts and part of the collective offer. Many counties have an offer with an order drop for those who do not have a bus connection. And all counties have a TT system, where elderly and disabled people are offered a low-proportional taxi service. This works well, it breaks isolation and gives a better social life for many older people. The government places emphasis on road safety, and I am sure that a road standard where there is room for middle parts will reduce the number of road accidents. On all the tribal roads in Hedmark, there is a high proportion of trailer accidents, and even if trucks are involved in many accidents, in most of these cases the trailer driver is not responsible for the accident. Many of these accidents could have been avoided with middle parts. With this budget, the maintenance budget increases so much that road damage stops. Road maintenance is increased by a total of 500 million. kr in 2007, which is 25 pst. up. Evolution's turning upside down. The roads get better, winter and summer. Among other things, the budget for asphaltification has increased by 33 p.m., and is now so large that it will be possible to resegregate 1,500 km of highway in 2007. The Norwegian Freight Car Association is very pleased that the Government has invested in maintenance in this budget, and the truck industry shall listen to it. It is a profession with experience and knowledge. On the accident-affected tribal road rv. 3 has to be corrected. A new asphalt must be added to the sections which should be widened. The road service in Hedmark has been able to widen its width while maintaining the road surface. I will give the Vegvesen in Hedmark praise for thinking new. This project has proved to be very profitable, and I hope the Council of State will contribute to the continuation of this test project in order to reduce the accident rate. Building roads in Norway is both expensive and difficult due to topographical conditions. I want to point out the need to build tunnels where there is a risk of race. Elsewhere it is necessary to take some of the cultivated land. I want to say it this way: in order to make an omelette, one necessarily has to crush some eggs – no one can well think of demanding omelette and yet demand that the eggs be saved. It's actually the same when we're going to build roads. We sometimes have to take some food soil to build safer and more traffic-proof roads. I would also like to stress that traffic flows are good for the environment. When car trains are in line on our roads, it will increase pollution. Of course, transport policy is not just roads, but when you come from home, it is natural to focus on good road standards. But also in the case of the railways, the Government has provided a historically good budget in line with its national transport plan. It is necessary that more of the heavy transport is transferred to sea and rail, and I am very pleased that the transport of goods by road is also included in the system of compensatory measures and agreements on NOx reduction. One freight train can carry as much as 24 fully loaded combinations of vehicles. The government is negotiating the purchase of passenger transport services by train from 2007. I expect the ministry to emphasise the need for improvements in train provision and that this will lead to a strengthening of the offer of sections that have a lack of provision today. Here I want, among other things. mention that the Oslo-Stockholm train offer is being restarted. This route was, as you know, closed in 2005. Railway is the most environmentally friendly travel option. With good train offers and good regularity, more people would like to take trains instead of driving their own car. The train carries 52.5 million people each year. Up to and from Oslo, 730 trains per day. day(s) Imagine if everyone was going to drive their own car! It would mean chaos and additional stress on the road network. 80 pst. of today's trains use electric power. Better organisation can increase passenger traffic and with satisfactory rail access the train can run from Oslo to Fredrikstad, Hamar and Tønsberg in less than one hour. In the magazine Railway No. So four is going to be equal to: ‘We are pleased that the budget is in line with the input we have made in advance, i.e.: increased focus on maintenance and renewal as well as rational progress on ongoing deployments. We are also pleased that the electricity charge will finally be removed and that the train companies will not be discriminated against in relation to the NOx tax on diesel." The government is delivering. Our government is adding up to the biggest broadband investment ever, 122 million. kr is set to bet. The aim is that all should have broadband access during 2007. Broadband is an important prerequisite for scattered housing and district-based business in our long-term country. The government has taken a number of steps in the field of transport to ensure that public resources are used efficiently. The Government has announced that it will submit a strategy plan for Norwegian aviation. Aviation is a central part of the transport service, in particular in parts of District Norway. Both the short-distance network and the main route network are an important part of the infrastructure. The arrangement that airports with profits pay for the unprofitable airports is a carrier in a good nationwide offer. The appropriations proposed by the Government for the purchase of business-unprofitable flights include: spaces to reduce the maximum price of Finnmark and Nord-Troms short-haul routes. I am also very pleased that the Council of State and the Government will strengthen passenger rights, improve safety and reduce aviation irregularities. The main objective of transport policy is to increase road safety, regional development, more environmentally friendly transport and a more efficient and accessible transport system throughout the country. The red-green government believes that transport infrastructure is a public responsibility. Traffic is a fundamental prerequisite for housing, industrial development and resource use. Government parties were united with the Advance Party at the time of the adoption of the National Transport Plan. We're happy with that. The government has now delivered a transport budget that follows up what was promised in the national transport plan. Everything's not good at all. It's a long way to go, but we're on our way. Unlike some other speakers, I have now tried to focus on the government's policy. I would like to take this opportunity to thank the chairman of the Committee for good cooperation in the budget. Good management of the committee!
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12.ana.ud2623e255	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12.ana.ud2623e258	I would like to ask a question about a matter that the representative did not mention, but where the Government also delivers: Where has it been made by the project funding? In February of this year, the head of the Labour Party, the representative of Rudihagen, was on the first page of the Nordic largest trade journal ‘Stopping OPS’ — Public Private Cooperation — was the message. The alternative model mentioned, project financing, was to put money from the state at the disposal of the builders, either as foreclosure or via their own funds. That solution has been effectively buried by the government itself. The necrologist is printed in the Yellow Book. What is the alternative? How is this government supposed to cope with what the OPS model is actually capable of, to help bring forward more new projects? What is the government's delivery here, except to cancel your own solution?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12.ana.ud2623e267	Firstly, this government has invested enormously in transport. In the national transport plan, we promised, and we deliver. It's in itself a significant boost. In the case of the OPS projects, it is for private individuals to raise money for all future purposes. We have another model that we're going to put the search light on, primarily through the annual budgets. But then we think we're going to evaluate, because that's not what the Progress Party wants to stress, that private solutions are the best. Now we're going to evaluate the plan we've had. There are many different signals whether it's profitable or not, but whether it's private or others who go in with money, it's the state that undertakes. And that's what we're going to look at in an evaluation.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12.ana.ud2623e274	The Committee has been on many county trips and received good information from local governments and businesses on important projects. Some of the things that have made an impression are the clear message from the rapporteur in South Odal regarding the postponement of RV. 2, to which this government contributes. Recently, there have been signs that also rv. 4 at Lunner needs to be converted into a giant tunnel. Soil protection shall be the cause of both issues. Eirin Faldet was clearly aware of his priorities. Is there any disagreement between the Workers' Party and the Centre party in this case? And what is the Workers' Party's attitude to the postponement of Rv. Two?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12.ana.ud2623e283	I was about to say with a familiar quote: I am pleased with that question. Do you have any more? But in the case of rv. 2, I just want to underline my agreement with the previous government. The representative Halleraker knows very well about my commitment to Rv. 2nd@item: inlistbox There is no disagreement in the Government or between the Workers' Party and the Centre in this matter. That's where I can calm the questioner. But some of the discussion is about whether we should listen to those who have raised objections, and do a real job on it. Having said that, I would like to say that rapporteur Henning Myrvang has been dealing with this matter for 22 years, so I expect the Government to find a solution to this which is in line with what is needed in the South Odal. Traffic has increased by 30 pst, so that means that this is urgent.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12.ana.ud2623e292	Parliamentary use of the quotation should have been: it was a good question, President, but does Halleraker have more questions? But the President agrees that the quotation is not as good as it is.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12.ana.ud2623e295	We promise, and we deliver – it is like the slogan of the sitting government. And they have been boasted by the Christian People's Party for a good and strong budget. But let me now drag this down a little bit on the ground. Firstly, we are disappointed with the cut of the reward scheme. I assume that we will receive more answers during the debate today. In terms of what has been delivered, there is currently a Northern Region strategy. You have to bet on North Norway and also on infrastructure. But there is a real decline on the investment side of the three Nordic states together. We get 24 miles of extra asphalting in Nordland, Troms and Finnmark. Let me say there's a drop in the ocean! In the case of racial protection, on which the Christian People's Party has been particularly concerned about and challenged the government parties, it is flat for Nordland, halved for Troms and zero to Finnmark, who according to NTP needs 72 million. kr for breed protection. What is the comment from the Workers' Party on this?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12.ana.ud2623e306	The answer from the Workers' Party is that we totally deliver much more than what the previous government did. We've been betting on racial protection. Clearly, according to the Christian People's Party, we should have granted much more, but what I often ask myself about is, why didn't the Christian People's Party come to the idea when they were in government and had the chance? Then it was kind of scarce with funds, I understood. But now they've shown up. We're gonna bet on security. We're going to bet on road safety all over the country. I have to say that if it is calculated that there will be 24 miles more with asphalting, it is better than nothing, because nothing came when the government Bondevik was responsible for the budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12.ana.ud2623e313	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12.ana.ud2623e316	The right is pleased that the debate on transport policy has been raised to a national level in the last year. This is primarily due to the focus on poor road standards, but also the desire to think about new things in relation to the climate challenges facing the globe. The right is concerned that we need to invest in good times to ensure tomorrow's well-being. Good times we have now. Therefore, in its alternative budget, the right rate is in several areas that will yield us in the years to come. We prioritise knowledge, research and innovation, and we focus on more and better ways. I am glad that the opposition is united behind a number of proposals that would contribute to more transportation per person. awarded crown. Many were excited about the government's announced and much-mentioned project funding. Until the submission of the State budget, this was the transitive tone of red-green transport posts. It ended with a mouse beep, where the most mentioned structural grips of the red-greens were hidden on page 102 of the Yellow Book, where the government buried its own banner. This reminds me to set full speed outside the Vickersund hill, fall on the jump edge and tumble down the duck net. It's a little impressive and disappointing to the spectators. That's why I'm glad that a whole non-socialist side so clearly states that you want to think new, get more out of each krona and manage the tax money in an optimal way. We have common proposals to continue the efforts on OPS projects. After the successful launch of the Gjøvik track, we want to move on to the competition to drive the Kongswingerbahn. We want to get a loan scheme with interest compensation according to the school construction model, where you can borrow to remove the delays in maintenance of county roads. This must be done within the framework of the municipal law. We want Avinor to continue with a 90-percent discount scheme at some airports to stimulate a better provision for passengers at just these airports. All these are proposals that will stimulate competition and will provide drivers, professional drivers, train passengers and air passengers with a better offer than the government parties can offer. Roads are important for jobs throughout the country. Until Christmas many trailers with Norwegian salmon will pass Svinesund. Of the 610,000 tons of salmon we produce every year, large parts are to be transported by truck to customers across Europe. Good roads are a prerequisite for profitable businesses. Betting on the road is an investment in our competitiveness that we can't afford not to. We need a road policy that prevents the queues around the towns and cities from getting so long that it's coming out of town to the south because it's queueing into town from the west, as we experience it in Oslo. Too many hours of work are lost due to lack of capacity and poor road maintenance. But better roads are also important for people's security, which Per Sandberg's representative had in mind. We cannot accept that people end up in serious traffic accidents as a direct consequence of poor road maintenance. People who drive their children to kindergarten, school and training should not feel unsafe because of poor road standards. Nor do the thousands of people who depend on the car at work or even from work feel insecure. E16 and Rv. 7 is just two of an innumerable tribal pathways that need a more offensive road policy. I just need to mention the ramsrude slopes on rv. 7 after the exit from E16 outside of Hen Foss as an example of the challenges that should have been addressed but are still not in progress. The main road network is the support of our transport system. Real tribal roads keep social machinery going. A quick look at the central road fact shows that of the whole road network of about 92 000 km in total, the main roads are only about approx. 9 000 km. Of a total national road network of approx. 27 000 km is approx. 30 pst. defined as the route of origin. Nevertheless, the main road network terminates above 55 pst. of traffic. The end is quite simple: Without a proper tribal road network Norway stops. In the Right we often say that the competitiveness of a Norwegian company is weakened for every kilometer it is located from Svinesund. Of course, it's a simplification, but it's like when countries we're going to compete with, they have transport costs of 8 pst. for Norway, between 13 and 20 pst. of the processing value of our main export enterprises. A herd road effort is essential for the mobility of Norwegian businesses, depending on where the farm is located in the country. Large parts of Norwegian industry are struggling to compete for labour. Transport costs and travel time must be reduced – not only in central struts, but throughout the country. It is Right’s ambition to contribute to this, because it is a prerequisite for a forward-looking business that triggers opportunities and creates new jobs across the country. We must have the will to bet on good tribal roads, because it is crucial to our competitiveness. There is a need for greater recognition that it is important for the whole country. The country's main natural resources and export products are located along a long-distance coast. We need to focus on better availability and more efficient transport solutions to bring production companies to the market. The right's alternative budget includes a power cap for more and better roads. It is not an alternative to choose between road maintenance and investment. We have to have room for both. Therefore, the Right is more offensive both in terms of investment and maintenance. Members of the Red-Green Government often say that it complies with the national transport plan. Well, that's not right. The government has the amount for 2007 in its draft budget, but it takes its mouth to the full when it claims to be on the road with the transport plan. The government has a lag in relation to the NTP of well 600 million. kr on the road and over a billion on the rail. The regime of the Government increases the burden on road users and municipalities in terms of more use of tolls and shooting. Only 168 million. kr goes from the state budget to initial investment in the road, the rest of the road users have to pay through increased tolls. With the Right option, this extra revolution would be avoided. Let's add 611 million. more than the Government of Road Investment and Racial Protection. The alternative budget of the right fulfils the action programme of the national transport plan without any advance shooting and more toll. The presence of foreign entrepreneurs has been increasing. It is difficult to see how we would be able to meet today's level in the construction of Norway without it. Despite frequent reports on high capacity utilisation, the construction industry has a lot of available capacity and can be better exploited. With the phasing out of large projects such as Worm Lange and Snow White, additional available capacity is released in the civil engineering sector. It is particularly good maintenance capacity. Therefore, the right rates are not only on an investment promise but also more offensive on road maintenance. We follow up on the government's increase in maintenance, but are not satisfied when you see the needs that lie there. In order to meet the large delay that has been revealed, the Right has proposed a separate road fund of NOK 20 billion. The Fund will provide an annual yield of approximately Eight hundred and eight hundred and eight hundred and eight hundred and eight hundred and eight hundred and eight hundred and eight hundred and eight hundred. kr with We'll try to get even more, but it's an important beginning and a signal that we need an extraordinary lift. Road funds shall be provided in addition to the normal means of maintenance. The right has always been concerned with the efficient and prudent use of taxpayers' money. We always look for solutions that can deliver greater benefits, higher quality and more efficient use of resources. We don't have an ideological chauffeur, but we don't have a private allergy either. This enables us to use Public Private Cooperation as an effective tool. It's been very successful. The government is unfortunately negative. It doesn't matter if you finance the road one way or the other! I have mentioned respect for public funds. However, the choice of road financing is also important for progress and quality. We need better solutions than the traditional one, where we are awarded the annual budgets, and faster progress depends on shooting and tolls. We have received a setback and a double notification when the Government is currently rejecting several OPS projects while at the same time promoting a draft budget with a lag on the investment budget relative to the NTP. It is incomprehensible not to have any more OPS projects when you see the results. Both the E39 Orkdalsvegen and the E39 Lvgal-Flekefjord have been built significantly faster than would have been the case with traditional road construction. I am convinced that OPS is the best of the well-known financing solutions for rational construction. Not least, the security of implementation is good for the country. So a little bit of a different theme. First, I would like to draw attention to page 35 of the setting, where the Right in the event of an incursion has not been included in a note about the Coastal Museum. I just want to stress that the Right also supports the progress of that project. Railways are important in Norway, mainly for passenger traffic in and out of the major cities, especially in the Oslo area, and as freight charterers. There has been a great development in the transport of goods between major cities. By far over half of all containers are currently on Oslo-Trondheim and Oslo-Bergen railways. We want an even greater share to be transferred to the railway. It is therefore important to extend more than 600 metres of crossing tracks so that an even greater proportion can be transported by rail and several freight trains can go between the big cities. Unfortunately, on longer distances the train goes too slowly. I am pleased with the broad support that Right has led to a further investigation of a southern high-speed rail ring. Another infrastructure under development is telecommunications. Broadband development is too full, and demand is increasing rapidly. I am pleased that an overall opposition has set out a common course in several important areas of transport policy. The main line of this is increased competition and a desire to get the money to go further. The government parties had one columbi egg: project financing. But after a certain painful meeting with the Ministry of Finance, this egg was broken, and you stand on a bar hill. It is sad that the concern for ideological cowards and the concern for the LO should prevent a better policy on transport in this country. I am addressing those proposals where the Right is a co-rapporteur.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12.ana.ud2623e376	The representative of Trond Helleland has taken up the proposals he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12.ana.ud2623e381	After all, the Right Party and the Advance Party are working for government cooperation on the next major choice. In the transport sector, both the Advance Party and the Right are committed to prioritizing maintenance and investment on the road, so that cooperation in this field would be well suited. However, the right has this year proposed a high-speed ring in South Norway at a cost of approx. 100 billion dollars, which disturbs the idyll. An assessment of the proposal was opposed to the Progress Party. Does the right-wing priority to extend such a high-speed ring also in any government negotiations with the Progress Party, or is this an airlock falling out in the first round, as it is so expensive that there will be no room for the road effort that the Right and the Progress Party say they will have, without the economy being overrun?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12.ana.ud2623e386	It is possible Irene Johansen knows more than me about government negotiations between the Right and the Advance Party. That we're trying to coordinate our policies, I think is positive. We have also done so with the Christian People's Party and the Left in this budget. As far as the high-speed ring is concerned, I have noticed with pleasure that the chairman of the Progress Party, Siv Jensen, has supported the project and feels it is exciting and that it should be further investigated. I have also noticed with pleasure that the government parties, the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party, think this has been an exciting task to get started. None of us today can say what's going to be the conclusion, but what's nice to know is that the North is flying more than everyone else, we're flying ten times as much as most Europeans, and that's because we have too bad roads, and we have too slow railways. So within that concept, I think it might be possible to get a high-speed ring that really will be a vision when we're going to celebrate the hundredth anniversary of Bergensbanen in three years' time.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12.ana.ud2623e393	The right will now bet on the road. That's something new. But what's a little bit interesting is that while both the holes in the roads and the rich people's tax havens increase in the previous period, a no-shit should at least close the hole in the road, something that one didn't do when a put in position. In addition, Right says that road is one of the most important areas for them – an area that was probably forgotten when they were in cooperation with the Left and Christian People's Party. My question is linked to this roadblock. Right is a responsible party in climate policy. When one knows that transport accounts for as much of the greenhouse gas emission as he does, and right then bets 100 pst. to get even more road development, at the same time as a player with some ideas about railway, what kind of policy is it really right for now? Is it to approach the Progress Party, or is it a responsible party in climate policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12.ana.ud2623e400	It is often the case that the roles are replaced a little, and now Hallgeir Langeland is a road enthusiast without equal. He has gone in for Hardangerbrua and some other projects that no one would think Langeland was a hot follower of. But he actually did, and it's positive. So I actually don't think that's such a big difference. SV wants the railway, and the right wants the railway. But the government is also committed to stressing the need for good and decent roads in this country. Then we'd better work on the technology related to cars. There we know that there's a lot going on around the world. Langeland itself is involved in the hydrogen project. There are many opportunities to improve car technology. But the most important thing is that we need lower transport costs, and we need the cars not to stand in line around the capital. This leads to high emissions. I really think that the best climate policy Norway can have is to have a transport system with flows in, and thus to bet on both rail and road development.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12.ana.ud2623e409	Let me just clear up one thing. When it comes to Hardangerbrua, it was told by SV that it was a camel – it is for information. But what's interesting is the representative of Greece at the end, doing things in the cities. There is a real possibility. That's where I wonder if we have the Right on the right when, for example. is committed to a Stockholm trial in the major cities of Norway. Now we know that it's not possible in Oslopackakt 3, because there's one that's somehow gone. But it's interesting when right-wing spokespersons around the country complain about the traffic problems that the previous government has created, when compared to now trying something new, that's a test that they've had in Stockholm, which reduces traffic by 25 pst. and better space for commercial transport, thereby also reducing greenhouse gas emissions. What does Right mean about this?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12.ana.ud2623e418	First I would like to note that it was a large camel. It's actually longer than the Golden Gate. So it was good that the representative could swallow it. We are focusing on positive instruments in terms of public transport. That is why it is very disappointing that the government, called a red-green government, a climate-absorbed government, reduces the reward scheme for public transport in the big cities, which is a positive scheme that produced good results in the last period, and which then the new government has shrank – uncertainly for what reason. I am not at all concerned about the right-wing rapporteurs' complaint song. It's perfectly justified. There is too little road development and road standard around the major cities in Norway, which is also reflected in the large and wide compromise on Oslopackak 3, of which SV is part. So I'm looking forward to Oslopackack 3 and other important environmental projects going on, because there's also collective action inside these packages, like Oslopack 3. And that's positive.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12.ana.ud2623e427	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12.ana.ud2623e430	We in the red-green government are doing what the Progress Party was doing in the previous period; we are doing what the National Transport Plan has laid down. We're shopping today. I record that the Christian People's Party and others must also be satisfied with this – minus the Progress Party then, who voted for what we are doing today, subsidiaryly. There will now be an offensive effort on the road and road maintenance, as the Right pointed out. There will be a bet on race protection and ferries. There will be a bet on ports and fairways. There will be a very good development on the infrastructure front now with this red-green government. But we have a challenge, and it applies to all of us – I'm not sure if it applies to the Progress Party, but now that there are so bad weather and many flukes in the West, it may be that they are also starting to think about – and that's the climate challenge, because we haven't done enough. We are now starting work in this government, we are doing something about fuel and environmental taxes, we are doing something by getting a completely different investment on the railway. But we don't do enough when we see the growth in air traffic and it increases pollution in the transport sector. The only thing we do is we have a high-speed train, because if we can get a competitive alternative to air traffic between east and west and north and south, we are doing something really big when it comes to greenhouse gas emissions. Right, Left, Christian People's Party and the Advance Party could have done for three to seven years what we do today, but they didn't. The Right and the Bondevik government prioritised increasing the gaps for the rich in the tax system, rather than closing the gap in the roads. That's what was prioritised in the previous government. It wasn't road maintenance, it wasn't iron tracks. It can be read if you are viewing the amounts. But the red-green plural actually follows up what we were some about in the previous period in relation to the national transport plan. We're now getting a historic bet. So we don't just bet in opposition, like now Right, Left, Christian People's Party and the Progress Party do, we actually do something in position, when we have the power to do things. I could have wanted others to do that when they put them in position. That means that what we're doing from the red-green side is we're betting on community solutions. In fact, we are committed to building up the railways, we are committed to doing something about road and road maintenance – things that are important to most people. It didn't happen to the previous government. My red-green bets, for example. 500 million. kr for increased road maintenance, while in the course of three conciliations with the previous government it was possible to add 1 million. kr on road maintenance. They're yelling at how bad the roads are. Why in all their days didn't they do anything about it when they had the power? But they can come back and say that now they have to clean up the red-green. Why don't they clean up themselves? One million. kr for road maintenance, that's fantastic. The party of progress for most people! Jaggu said my butter! When it comes to prioritizing, the red-greens clearly have what matters to most people in practice. It's not just to say how bad the state is and how high the tolls are. Actually, we're doing something concrete, and it's the main point of driving politics. In my building area, in the north of Jären, people are mostly very much in queues. It also does business, and they lose tens of millions of dollars to sit in these queues. Is it the red-green fault, which has had power for over a year, or is it the others who have to share this responsibility? In my opinion, it's clear that we need an extra bet here, and that's what we need. In the 1990s, I myself worked on the city council in Stavanger to set up an urban railway on the North Jären. Even longer, we've been working on the double track. We've listened about that year after year. New governments promised double tracks, double tracks, double tracks. But it never came. So now this government is going to be spending $ 1/2 billion on the North Bank when it comes to double tracks, and we're going to be behind the planning of the North Bank. None of the parties that talk about this today, and that are in opposition, did this. We do this, of course, because we want to reduce the greenhouse gas problem. We do this because we want to reduce the noise in cities. We're doing this because we want to reduce the problems that road traffic creates, that all major city managers are busy with, and that businesses and truck owners are also busy with. By investing in collective solutions, we create a better place for business. The fact that the right-hand side of Norwegian policy, which is constantly talking about the right-hand side of its framework conditions, is not occupied with this is amazing. From the Government's side, we – and we really mean it – invite ourselves to work together to do something about the problems in the metropolitan areas. The Stockholm test was mentioned earlier, in a string shift. The government is now putting up a massive effort on public transport. We add up to e.g. in collaboration with metropolitan areas to create projects similar to the Stockholm model – if one wishes it locally. The problem now is that the spokesmen from the Right and the Advance Party are in their municipality, their big city, and are shouting in more ways, which will create even greater problems for people who live there. At the same time, cuts include: The batch of progress in the railway operation, which will lead to even more in the queue. What we now need – and that is a challenge for the opposition party – is to make sure that their local parties are interested in participating in trials similar to the Stockholm model, so that we really get forward-looking solutions. I don't expect this in Oslo, because Oslo has set his own race. I'm in the Lion Hill MC Club. The MC people in Norway are very happy that we are now getting a stake in road maintenance. We know it means a lot to two-wheelers. A little poor maintenance on the roads can be about life or death for many MC people. Here we take an important step and do something about it. The government has previously agreed to a wireframe work ban. It's in place. That's what MC people have wanted. They thank us for this. I thank the Council of State for her presence and for having this done, because it simply didn't happen to itself. There was a part that didn't want this. Similarly, it is important that we now show political will with regard to the signals that are now being given in this budget by the Stortinge. split up against the national road ferries and against the Tau connection. Now you get a review of this, now you get a fact on the table, and then you have to show the political will that needs to be, like you did in the wired work ban. Here a solution has to be found. From our side, we're happy with the first real red-green budget, although it has some beauty mistakes. Because even if it does, we expect to be able to fix these little things in the next budget. There's a lot of talk about this government being historic, because we're fulfilling the transport plans that the Storting has previously agreed on, and we're fulfilling the choices we've given in this area, including with money, not just with words, like the opposition party now does after they leave the government offices and try to show some action. Let's hope that delivering results means more than ignoring promises that have never been tried, e.g. by the Progress Party when negotiating the budget. Bringing generous and expensive promises is quite possible. But when one in the budget negotiations completely forgets them, and e.g. plus 1 million. Three years of road maintenance, I have to ask myself: is this real policy, or is it an airlock policy that is not rooted in reality? This government began by doing what was necessary for transportation. Today we do what is possible. Maybe we can do it right, left, Christian People's Party and the Progress Party have never made it clear: to keep ours in the government statement, Soria Moria.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12.ana.ud2623e466	'Smear' is a parliamentary expression, but not the word used above.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12.ana.ud2623e469	Okay. That's it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12.ana.ud2623e475	That's it. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12.ana.ud2623e480	First, I have to correct an obvious misunderstanding. The representative of Langeland said that in the 2005 conciliation the Progress Party was able to achieve only 1 million. kr. It was such that the red-greens who made a deal with the Bondevik government in 2004 were able to make a minus 5 million. kr for maintenance. At least we managed to get some money. SV was not able to get anything in that period either. The representative of Langeland was very concerned with climate change and the queues on our roads. At least I can assure the representative of Langeland that the committee leader is currently an active user of the collective offer in Norway! But I actually think it's quite a long way between life and learning. Those who took VG last week could read about the journey of our distinguished Environment Minister and the use of collective means of transport. It was a plane and a car, or limousine, if you could say what was the main means of development for the Environment Minister. Is the representative of Langeland satisfied that one has an environmental protection minister who is perhaps one of the most environmentally hostile in the use of transport?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12.ana.ud2623e489	Of course, Langeland is the most satisfied when one of the reasons is to choose a bike. I have offered myself to the head of the Transport Committee membership of the Cyclistens Landsforening. I had appreciated the fact that several people were involved and promoted the bike's case. When it comes to the way the Minister for the Environment travels, I hope that on many of the good proposals that are now being adopted in the Transport Budget, and on the way forward, which I hope I will use, among other things, for high-speed rails. Vestlands-FrP can be involved in and realised in Norway at some point in time, and we are making FrPs and environmental protection ministers travel more environmentally friendly – if we have alternatives. That's the point. Otherwise, I record that the Progress Party is not very busy with the climate, but I also record that some in the Progress Party seem that climate policy is becoming important, because most people have started to understand that it is important.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12.ana.ud2623e498	Langeland is asking us in the Right to influence our rapporteurs. Langeland has a similar opportunity to raise this matter in Trondheim, where the red-green ones rule, if he is so for road pricing. We're against it. I would like to make that clear from this platform. One of the many success stories of the Bondevik government is the commitment to public transport. Over SEK 1.5 billion more than the ambitions of the Sem statement were the result. A positive measure such as the urban reward scheme to stimulate public transport was one of the solutions. This is a system which is greatly reduced by the current government, under the condition that the electricity charge for public transport falls away. It's just the logical flaw that it's only in Oslo you have electrified public transport to some extent. This is why this collective user affects all other major cities in Norway, including Stavanger. Is Langeland comfortable with this down-priority of public transport, except in Oslo?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12.ana.ud2623e505	No, Langeland is never comfortable with promises that don't go in the favor of public transport. That's why this is one of the points that it's been working on at Stortinget to try to change. We did not get that, but it is clear that the reward scheme will work to get better than it is today. That being said, it is clear that the total investment in public transport is miles further than that Halleraker, Right and Bondevik had ever dreamed of getting. I have a good conscience for this, but I am sorry that what the replicant is now asking about, the reward scheme, is cut. I want to work hard to get it back in place with renewed strength – preferably much bigger than it is today.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12.ana.ud2623e512	The representative of Langeland is very enthusiastic about the transport budget presented. It's good to register. But it has, in my opinion, also led to a negative side, namely that the government parties have not at all been willing to open up on a bit to the nearest half of the Storting, which is the opposition in this matter. I want to point specifically to one matter, which I know SV is very concerned about. Most people in Norway agree that alcohol and car traffic do not belong together. Rus kills in traffic. The Christian People's Party therefore has a long and, in my opinion, good comment on the use of alcohol in car traffic. We have a proposal that is just a call to the Government. But even in this case that SV is very concerned about and agrees with the Christian People's Party, the government parties were willing to participate in such an important area. What's the reason why you're completely putting the opposition on the side line?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12.ana.ud2623e519	As a working fractional leader, I would say that we have treated the opposition party very carefully. We've gone through all the recordings they've made, in a proper way, and spent time on it. But we have experienced that the opposition party has been more concerned with being in opposition than with being in position to create solutions. At least one can read it from the rhetoric used from the opposition part. Having said that, I must say that we have seen this concrete link to the Alkout as a problem which we must discuss beyond what we have now had the opportunity to do in connection with the Minister for Transport's budget. I don't want to reject what a solution the government party can agree to, but we chose to leave that issue in this budget. Then I will finally say that I record that the Christian People's Party is relatively positive to this budget. I think that's why, when you see how far ahead of the government Jan Sahl represented in his time, this government has managed to be on the road.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12.ana.ud2623e528	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12.ana.ud2623e531	Ibsen is celebrating this year, and the Christian People's Party has let itself be inspired. We have actually come so far that some of us read Ibsen quotes on the pavement of Karl Johan. One of these is from 'Brand' and sounds like: ‘Not a thousand Words/sy prints as a Making Track.’ It's so right, but still: the Christian People's Party is in a situation with a majority government. Then our option is to use thousands of words to set tracks. Unfortunately, we don't have the power to trace deeds. I refer to the line change here, where the government has shown no strong interest in showing the opposition parties any goodwill with regard to our words. I think it is remarkable, in relation to many of the good proposals that the opposition has made. The Government shall be commended for increasing overall appropriations for transport purposes for 2007. It does not fill the 2006 budget lag. In addition, the Government has said that the greatest promise for the railway will come in the first part of the National Transport Plan period. That's not happening. In addition, the government chooses to cut the reward scheme for public transport quite drastically. The Christian People's Party would like to see more money spent on racial protection. It is positive that the Government grants exemption from the electricity charge for road transport. The Christian People's Party, together with the Left, proposed this in the revised 2006 budget. It is good that the Government follows this up in the 2007 budget. Four main objectives underpin our priorities in the field of transport: road safety, accessibility, environmental considerations and accessibility. Every human being has an infinite value. We can't afford to lose any lives in traffic. Responsibility for road safety has been shared between the road user and the authorities. It is not just about building motorways across the country, as the Progress Party wants, but the standard on the road network is an important factor in increasing safety. More handrails, more racial protection and more pedestrian and cycle routes are very important measures to increase traffic safety. In addition, the training, information and control of us road users is important. We know speed kills. Lack of knowledge kills. Russ kills. Unresponsive and tired driver kills. And too many people die because they don't use seat belts. We point out that there is a great need for skilled traffic school teachers, and that the Ministry of Knowledge and the Ministry of Transport must work together to develop good training provision for the industry. In line with our focus on safety, we want to strengthen Safe Traffic and the work of the Disaster Commission. We also promote proposals to launch measures to increase the use of alcohol. I must say that it is very surprising that the other members of the Committee are not involved in this comment. More and more tests are still showing positive effects with the use of alcohol locks, and the Vegvesen has even started the installation of alcolocks in their service cars. We know that rush kills in traffic. I expect everyone to agree that alcohol and driving do not belong together. Why is it not then willing to look at concrete measures to prevent drug driving? Here the Christian People's Party had been waiting for membership, especially from the government parties, but so you have chosen to show distance here as well. The Christian People's Party wants a society with space for everyone. All disabled persons shall have opportunities for participation and life development in line with other citizens of society. The need for improved accessibility and increased user involvement is important in this context. That is why we want concrete and binding requirements for the NSB in the new framework agreement. That is why we want to increase the appropriations for the BRA programme. It is also necessary to facilitate the employability of more disabled people. Therefore, we propose making the scheme of grants for work and education trips for disabled people permanent. Managing responsibility is fundamental in Christian People's Party's policy. Our goal is to manage the earth fairly and ensure sustainable development. Transport is one of the greatest challenges for sustainable development in the world today. The environmental impacts of the transport sector contribute to high social costs and the energy consumption of the sector is high and increasing. We have to turn this development around. We have to try to combine the consideration of feasibility with respect to the environment. We have to make it easier for people to travel more environmentally friendly. The government is not offensive enough on the environmental side. The Bondevik Government established a reward scheme for public transport in larger urban areas. It is very disappointing that the Government is now cutting off the reward scheme. The Christian People's Party proposes increased appropriations for the railway and the reward scheme. We want increased grants for research and development of environmentally friendly technologies and climate-neutral solutions. The Christian People's Party will make use of the whole country. We will ensure good conditions for small and medium-sized enterprises, for agriculture and fisheries. We must ensure that the whole population is accessible, both to those living in urban areas and to those living in the districts. We must provide a good framework for business. Then it is very important with good ports, with ferries, with racial protection and with public transport. Today we decide that the state will spend 23 billion kroner on transportation next year. The problem is that the needs are so great that even when we donate $23 billion, that is not enough. The challenges are bigger. We've got to get new grips. We need to find ways of financing that allow the full implementation of large-scale transport projects. That is why the Christian People's Party was disappointed when the government presented its draft budget in the autumn, and we read in the Yellow Book that the Government's promises of project financing had been flinched. The Prime Minister correctly stated that this government is already involved in project financing, ‘by financing projects in the road sector’. With all due respect for the Prime Minister, here he tried to get away with a rhetoric that didn't work. Here is another Ibsen-quote, taken from Peer Gynt: «Yes, think it; wish it; would it; – but do it! No, I don't understand that." This is the background to the opposition’s joint comments on OPS projects. We are impatient, and we are disappointed that this government both expresses scepticism for OPS and, at the same time, is unable to come up with alternatives to carrying out large-scale transportation projects. Now the State Council must speed up the alerted evaluation of OPS. Government parties also state in the setting that they look forward to an alternative project funding model – what it should be. Ibsen's Brand expresses itself something like this: what you do, do it completely, not piecefully and divided. Let's solve several major and comprehensive transport projects, whether it's with OPS or project funding. The Christian People's Party will keep the pressure up. It's you in the position that have to come up with the solution. We have made good suggestions. We wait impatiently for answers. Finally, I would like to mention some issues that have special significance for North Norway. An overall opposition stands together to propose Stamsund port in Lofoten as a pilot project. One of the most important fishing ports in northern Norway, where the country’s largest trawler carrier is located, has such a narrow entrance that the largest trawlers do not enter the ports. The municipality of Vestvågøy, together with its partners, is committed to advance the entire project and even take the full interest burden as a propensity, if you can start now and get your money back in 2012–2013, as this project is a priority. But the Minister for Fisheries says no. I'll ask you, why? I hope to receive an answer in the Minister's posts. So to a project that the government parties are also very concerned about, and that both the Minister of Transport and not least the Minister of Foreign Affairs have flagged very high, namely N.E.W., the China-USA transport corridor via Narvik, a project that is of great importance to the whole of North Norway and presented as one of the actions of the Northern Region Strategy. The Communication on the Northern Region Strategy states that the assessment of support is carried out. But now is the time to act. The first test transport is planned for October 2007 but cannot be carried out without a State guarantee of any deficit during the test period. There is an application for such a guarantee in the Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs, but the company has not received an answer. Contracts with carriers may not be concluded before the guarantee is available. Now one has to choose either to signal support for such a guarantee or to take responsibility for one of the most forward-looking projects in North Norway. Finally, I take up the proposals from the Christian People's Party in the vote, both the overall approach and the individual proposal. We also support proposal No. 15 and proposal No. 41.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12.ana.ud2623e583	The representative Jan Sahl has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12.ana.ud2623e588	The representative, Sahl, gives the closest expression in his article that the only part of the progress is going on is the motorway. The 2007 budget of the Progress Party also has a massive railway investment in relation to what the Bondevik II Government wanted in its national transport plan. My first question to the representative of Sahl is therefore: is there now any serious imbalance between the commitment of the Progress Party to infrastructure in 2007 and what the Bondevik II government wanted in the national transport plan? Then I am pleased to record that the Christian People's Party has joined one of the proposals of the Progress Party, and that does not concern the motorway at all, it goes on interest compensation and a bet on the county roads. To go even further: the party of progress made a series of reconciliations with the Bondevik II government in terms of transportation – we were united in three comparisons. So I don't understand where the representative Sahl draws the big disagreement between the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12.ana.ud2623e596	I was pleased to note that the Progress Party was united with the other government parties on a strong commitment to rail. I am therefore now recording with great concern that the Progress Party chooses to go in the opposite direction. It was going to add up to $1 billion per. years. The Progress Party cuts in the budget that has now been presented, approx. $2 billion to the railway. It cannot be interpreted as anything other than that the Party of Advances has departed from the promises they made in connection with the NTP together with the Government Parties. Having said that, I would say that the Christian People's Party is open to cooperate with the Progress Party in all the areas where we can agree on the policy. But when the Progress Party in the current budget chooses to cut the entire amount allocated to the reward scheme for public transport, it signals a step forward from the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12.ana.ud2623e603	Why didn't Christian People's Party and Jan Sahl prioritise more for road maintenance, more for racial protection, more for ports and fairways, and especially for the Stamsund port? Stamsund Hafen was not a new issue when the Prime Minister and the government had been involved in the last period, and the situation in NTP grew only larger and larger. It could have been interesting with a response from the representative Jan Sahl about this. It's only been one year since the Jan Sahl and Bondevik II government put in power and put out their budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12.ana.ud2623e608	I notice that when the government parties are going to conflict with the Christian People's Party, things are going on with previous governments. It does not look at the future and the challenges ahead. The representative Tor-Arne Stroem has also been in opposition and has been very high on the track both with the Stamsund port and the Hurtigrutemuseet on Stokmarknes. Now we see that the policy has suddenly changed, because one has come into government and has had to accept compromises with others. So I think here we might have a little bit to do for, each of us. Now it is important for the Christian People's Party to look forward, and then I will show that we fully supported the Government in terms of the amounts presented, but we wanted a few small changes and asked to move a few dollars in the budget to racial protection and to the reward system. It was not possible, it was a cash rejection.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12.ana.ud2623e617	I thought that the Christian People's Party is a little ideological when they work very hard for OPS projects that this government no longer wants. Then there's one in the company with the Progress Party – and it's maybe there's a nice one when it's about the transport sector. The Christian People's Party is sorry that they have not received money from the Government, as they have done otherwise. There has been no theme in the Transport Committee to have some money to hand out to the Christian People's Party. We've had the theme of trying to fulfill the most possible of the Soria Moria Declaration, and then we haven't had funds from anywhere else to hand out to the Christian People's Party. My question applies in so far as two things. It's the only thing that's got within ICT and broadband from the government's side. Is the Christian People’s Party happy with the great effort that now has come there? The second point is: what is now different from when Hareide was Minister of Environmental Protection? Now the Christian People's Party is doing a lot more on the road, and is no longer so offensive when it comes to public transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12.ana.ud2623e628	To the end, I have to say that if you read the setting, you will see that the Christian People's Party is at least as offensive in terms of public transport as the sitting government is. It is precisely within the area of public transport that we have pointed out that one does not implement what the NTP promises were going on; one should take the largest investment in rail in the first part of the period. It hasn't happened, and you cut the reward scheme. So the Christian People's Party is engaged in public transport, but we're also committed to taking some major projects continuously, and we have great expectations of project financing. When, first, the current government rejects OPS funding that we now have for evaluation, and, secondly, does not find the possibility of project funding, it is no more than that the Christian People's Party is experiencing it as a breach of promise and as a strong step backwards for the current government. But now I have noticed that the government parties' representatives in Stortinget have not given up project funding, so we are waiting for what the minister is going to say about it in the debate today.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12.ana.ud2623e633	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12.ana.ud2623e636	We politicians know how to use a lot of words, and sometimes we use words without thinking so much about what's in them. Therefore, it might also be interesting to taste a little extra on a word or two once in a while, and the words that I should first of all taste a little, are ‘trafficking’ and ‘vision’. The word "trafficking" can be divided into two parts. The last word, 'trafficking', comes from danger. So going together is a linguistic starting point for what we're discussing today, and I think this creates a nice picture of what we as politicians are doing with our efforts before going. With a boost in the budget for transport of the size we are about to adopt, more people could go together and across the whole of our long and diverse country. The word "vision" is the next thing I want to do. In English, ‘vision’ is vision. In order to have a vision, one must be able to see something. Having a vision before transportation means so much that we have to be able to imagine going together in new ways. The construction of Bergensbanen was in its time a result of great visions and resulted in people using our country in new ways and seeing our country with new eyes. So by changing the transport policy, we can change society, and we should be aware of that. What I want to draw out, especially from the budget presented, is the increase in road maintenance, the railway operation, and finally what is involved in road safety. First of all, the increase in road maintenance: road maintenance is not particularly tense and visionary, I admit it. But with large and important expansions of the Norwegian road network over many years and with high traffic volume, the road maintenance challenges, of course, accumulate if one is not adequately addressed for this purpose. For business and most people, it's not enough that there's a path from a to b, if it's almost not executable, and unfortunately there's a lot of places in the asphalt coming as close as the yellow strips. To put it in the central part: it's bad household not to take care of what you have. The road visions that politicians before us have realized, we follow up with maintenance money. We're increasing the effort by 500 million. kr, or 25 pst., from the aged budget in 2006. Furthermore, 800 million. kr set aside for asphaltification, which is 200 million. kr more, or 33 pst. more than that in the aged budget in 2006. All of this means that in 2007 we will reverse the growth of road maintenance, and this will make it a more pleasant and secure experience. The second positive I want to draw from the transport budget is the urbanization effort. With major climate challenges and a growth in air traffic that does not improve the situation in any way, the investment on the railways in the 2007 budget shows that we have a vision further for the most environmentally friendly mode of transport. In this context, we are also very pleased that the possibilities of the high-speed rail are now to be clarified. In Europe, including Sweden and Denmark, high-speed railway lines are being built that dramatically reduce air traffic between major cities. A large reduction in polluting air traffic and, in addition, less car traffic will be the consequence if we build more high-speed trains in Norway. The high-speed rail is a new way of thinking about transport in Norway, and here it requires a vision of the size of the visions that stood at the site of the Bergensbahnen. When our country could take it up, our country certainly has muscles – and hopefully enough visionary politicians too – to take the lifted construction of a high-speed train will be. The third thing I want to say specifically from the budget is the means of various forms of road safety. It needs to be an objective to make people safe when they travel along our roads. It is not surprising that the growth of traffic over the last 50 years poses a real risk to life and health, but the growth of accidents has fortunately been far from the growth of traffic. Nevertheless, dramatic numbers of people are failing in traffic. Besides, we're also going to say that there are many places that are destroyed by the fact that large roads are being built in the middle of what may have been the idyllic Bu environment, places where kids could play freely before the road came, and where parents didn't want to be afraid that their kids would be run on the road to the neighbor. Walking and cycling roads are therefore important to get in place. In addition to creating security, it also creates greater physical activity among those who live in the area. As seen, walking and cycling roads are prevention of health work in several ways. Traffic security is a big theme, because it's all about everything from the way we build roads to speed limits, walking and cycling roads, race protection, winter bedding, etc. And no matter how much money we spend on traffic security, there will always be those who drive crazy and create dangerous situations. But what we are now proposing is a significant contribution to making traffic safer. Among other things, the pot of race protection is increasing by almost 56 million. kr, or 20 pst., plus the 2006 budget balance, together with a total of 560 million. SEK for racial protection and a project with a race protection win in 2007. Otherwise it's like everything's connected to everything. The strength of the economy of municipalities and county councils gives room to bet on traffic, and under that traffic security as well. I would like to end by stressing the importance of government cooperation in order to get this lifted to transport. SV, the Workers' Party and the Centre have entered into an obligatory cooperation that produces concrete results in several areas, and the size of the growth of the transport budget is bound by it indisputably. In this way, it is appropriate to end with what I started with, that is, with my interpretation of the word "trafficking", which was to go together. That's exactly what the three government parties are doing now -- we're on a path, which is obviously demanding for all three parties, but which results for our country, and which brings us closer to the visions we have for the future, including in the field of transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12.ana.ud2623e659	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12.ana.ud2623e662	The representative Klinge – if allowed – also represents the community by being a local politician. I note that in the setting there are 41 verbal suggestions from the opposition. I have gone through them with light and light, and find that many of these correspond to the program of the Centre Party. So my first question to the representative Klinge is: Do you feel comfortable, among other things? Now to say no to ensuring the national racial protection plan, that the centre party now opposes free-of-charge ferries, that the centre party now refuses to re-engage on the county roads? There are three of these proposals. Does the representative feel comfortable voting against these proposals? At today's pace in road investment, it will take 40 to 50 years before we get acceptable road standards. But I record that the representative Klinge is very busy with the railway. How does it correspond to the central party's bets in districts where the railway is not existing?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12.ana.ud2623e669	What I want to highlight is that this budget, in sum, is good for all parts of the transport area. I want to quote Aristotle, which emphasizes that luck does not belong to particularly good days or happy moments, but is reserved for the judgment of an entire life project. The political success of this government does not depend on whether the Center Party feels comfortable in all situations, but on what we are able to achieve in the four years we are going to be here.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12.ana.ud2623e676	A project that the Center Party and the Christian People's Party have been working together for a long time is City Ship Tunnel. It's a project with 130-year-old history. What has come on the table now, and which makes the government have found reason to take a new round before one makes any suggestion, is the question of expanding the tunnel, so that large ships à la Hurtigruta can go through there. It's exciting, and it needs investigation. But we were greatly surprised when we were informed in the committee a short time ago that the rest of this magnification period should be used to investigate the extension of the tunnel, when everything else is clear. Then my question to the Center Party is: do you feel well that you promise that perhaps in 2009 you will return to the City Ship Tunnel? It means, in my opinion, that there will be a new magnification that will, if necessary, look at that matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12.ana.ud2623e684	As a commodity that has been in Stortinget for four weeks, I can't answer in detail all kinds of things. But what I can do is maybe draw me into a three-minute afterwards and answer it more closely if you need it. What I'm sure of is that this government and the majority in Stortinget are going to do everything in their power to get the cause of City Ship Tunnel on the track as quickly as possible. But as I said, the details behind it take so long, I don't know anything about it. Maybe it's possible to get it before. Then, of course, it will.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12.ana.ud2623e689	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12.ana.ud2623e692	The left is busy transport. I would therefore like to commend the Government for a good budget in the field of transport, although the priorities could and should be different. This year’s budget has a record framework, much due to increased tax revenue. There is more money in the Norwegian economy than ever. This forgets the representative of Langeland in his post – there was no need to spend more money on transportation. It is also strange to hear the representative Langeland talk about Oslopak 3 when both he and I know that SV has been at the forefront of Oslopak 3 – a cross-political, historical consensus. But the Left is disappointed with the government's lack of commitment to the environment and road safety. During the budgetary procedure, it has been interesting to see that the government parties agree with the opposition that a matter is important but totally lacking in supporting concrete and good proposals. They are aware that public transport in urban areas provides considerable social benefits but will not increase the allocation. This is a result of majority arrogance and does not contribute in the right direction to the new course of environmental policy promised by the Minister for the Environment. It is a pity, as the new course has so far also been about saying yes to polluting gas power plants and no thanks to renewable energy. The left wants the government to succeed in its environmental and transport policy, and then I think the government parties do well to listen to the opposition on the Stortinget. In this context, I would like to draw up the reward scheme for public transport. The left believes it is important to focus on public transport in urban areas, so that we can wisely solve the congestion and environmental problems associated with high levels of car traffic. This is important for everyone who travels in the city center, but also for the business that transports goods in and through the cities. That the Government chose to cut public traffic is therefore incomprehensible to the Left. The scheme works, provides better public transport in urban areas and brings great socio-economic benefits, mainly as a result of fewer cows. Even more alarming is the fact that SV's Heikki Holmås in the financial debate did not support Left's escalating plan for public transport on the grounds that the municipalities had received so much money in the budget. I think it is very nice to hear the representative of Langeland here today calmly that they will support the reward scheme and make it even better. I'm glad. For there is no direct link between giving more money to municipalities and improving public transport in cities. There are no limits to what the increased money of the municipalities will be spent on! Last night the Minister of Knowledge announced that they would be used for violent students. That's good! But there's something new every day, almost like a Sarepta jar. The reward scheme shall stimulate urban municipalities to spend money on public transport. The scheme is based on inter-urban competition, the quality of the award. This gives a lot of good public transport per year. krone. This is also reflected in the recently submitted report of the Transport Economic Institute. The Left's alternative budget is to reduce marginally the operating costs of government, because we believe in modernisation and efficiency. We have also cut the appropriations for a road project, which has raised uncertainty as to whether it will be implemented in 2007. So far, government parties have not supported this, even though they in the committee are familiar with the great social benefits of good public transport in cities. I fear more queues on the roads, poorer urban air and poorer collective services in 2007. Either the government parties have not addressed the specific challenges of major cities in the field of transport or the competitive element of the public transport reward scheme for high-cost socialists. Or they simply forgot the Soria Moria declaration, because it says that the reward system should be strengthened, not cut. I would challenge the representatives of the government parties on why they may not want to support the Left's proposal to strengthen the reward scheme for public transport. The Left also believes that the Government does not give sufficient priority to safety on the road network. The left is particularly concerned about road safety on the main road network. Despite a number of measures in recent years, the number of injuries in traffic is almost unchanged, while the number of deaths is fortunately reduced. The left places emphasis on the great personal suffering of those involved in traffic accidents, the burden on the relatives and the costs of traffic damage and death on society. Therefore, the Left wishes to give priority to the construction of centres on the main road network on the routes most exposed to meeting accidents. The construction of middle parts is a cost-effective measure that contributes significantly to improving road safety. We missed this in the Government's proposal. That's why the Left wanted to allocate 50 million. kr to start work on the most vulnerable stuttering sections. I hope now to receive the support of the representative Eirin Fallet, after her posts here today. Left will underline the importance of open and safe roads. Changes in the climate can lead to major changes in nature, resulting in new areas being exposed. Therefore, the Left wants to strengthen the race protection of the highways by 50 million. kr in the alternative budget of the Left. I want to praise the Government's budget in the railway sector, and for following up a number of projects undertaken by the previous government, among others. the double track between Sandvika and Lysaker and the bet on the key hub Lysaker station. The left considers it important to strengthen the competitiveness of the railway. I would therefore like to highlight the need for, inter alia: longer crossing tracks. This is very important in order to strengthen rail, both passenger and freight traffic. The left will stress the importance of prioritizing the planning of crossing tracks on the Kongsvingerbahn, double tracks on the Oslo-Hamar route, and the fact that a new double track Oslo-Ski including new Ski Station is ensured means of optimal progress in the planning process. The double-track Ski-Oslo hurry. The left wants to repair this bottleneck on the Eastfold track and therefore spend extra money there. Research and development and new technologies are important in transport. The world is facing major challenges in relation to the environment and climate. Therefore, the Left considers it a pity that the Government is reluctant to invest in environmentally friendly biofuels and hydrogen. In fact, the government has been so restrained that from New Year's onwards, cars using the eco-petrol bioethanol are becoming more expensive, while in Sweden, thanks to green taxes and not least the marketing obligation for oil companies to sell biofuels. Nor has the Left's proposal to speed up biofuels in Norway with a sales mandate found the government parties to be able to support them in a cost-effective manner. The left considers that it is both important to support the phase-in of biofuels through different instruments and at the same time to focus on research and development of new fuels and solutions. Therefore, the Left wants to increase the funding for hydrogen research and testing. Norway has an international responsibility to be at the forefront of climate change mitigation efforts. We have to take this seriously. Finally, I refer to the proposals that the Left is promoting in the setting alone.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12.ana.ud2623e732	The representative Borghild Tende has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12.ana.ud2623e737	The left says that this representative substantiates information on tax access. Now, what this government is doing is increasing taxes on the national population, thus increasing tax revenue. The government in which the Left was involved was busy making holes in the tax system so that the rich could get more, and thus got a smaller money in the treasury. So this has to do with politics, it has nothing to do with subtlying information. It has to do with SV not prioritizing tax laws to nationals, as left has done when they're in position. Then there's one thing that worries me. A talker from the Left hand side about "safety" on the road. It's also this government busy. But when it comes to safety in air and safety on the railway, the left goes against the road, so one cuts in the lines of the Railway Authority and the Air Safety Authority. The question is, does that mean that it is very safe and secure on the railways and in the air transport, since the left cuts there?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12.ana.ud2623e744	Thank you for that question! First, I want to say that I think the representative of Langeland should be so honest to admit that we have more money now than we have ever had. The last person I heard said it was Gahr Støre in a debate. It's because we're getting more money in, and because of the Bondevik government's good tax policy on nutrition, business and investing in it. With regard to the reductions in the public sector, which the representative is concerned with, the Left believes in efficiency improvement and modernisation, and I am very disappointed that SV, as I see it as a progressive party, is not more concerned with this than what emerges here.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12.ana.ud2623e756	After several years of long delays, we can now refer to a historic railway investment. Does not the representative Borghild tend to find it a bit embarrassing that the Left, who had the Minister for Transport for four years, and who would like to be the environmental party over others, failed to comply more on the railway?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12.ana.ud2623e761	I thank you for that question. No, I don't feel like we have anything to be ashamed of – on the contrary. Many of the projects carried on by this government now, it was actually the Bondevik II government that started. In the setting they almost regret it. It says that because the Bondevik administration started the projects, one must complete. There's a little regret in that, and I'm surprised. I praised this government in my post for the investment on the railway. I think it's really nice. What I do not commend to the Government is a lack of commitment to the reward scheme. Such a reward scheme would serve the districts.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12.ana.ud2623e770	I note that the representative Tende is very pleased that the 2007 budget contains a railway investment, otherwise a railway investment that Left opposed when the national transport plan was adopted. It just tells me that there's a slight fluctuation in politics. My question to the representative concerns inter alia: high-speed rail, because I have recorded that the Left Party will also be at the head of a high-speed rail, either between large cities in Norway, or in the form of a ring. The cost of this is a little uncertain yet, but that there will be a cost of NOK 100-150 billion, we probably have to calculate with. When we know from the core network investigation that the ordinary and existing railway today lacks 70-100 billion kroner to get an acceptable standard, is my simple question: Will the Left both adjust the existing track by 100 billion kroner and build a high-speed ring to 150 billion dollars? And is it possible within the rule of action, of which the Left is occupied?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12.ana.ud2623e777	The left-wing concept of the high-speed rail is very exciting, and in the Bondevik II government, we were in favour of a pilot project on the Oslo–Gothenburg route. We support the Right in the proposal on the Southern Railway Ring. We think it's visionary. We aim to reduce domestic air traffic in Norway, because that is what we see in the European Union. That's where they take the path between the biggest cities. That is what I hope and want us to do here in Norway too, in order to reduce environmental problems.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12.ana.ud2623e783	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12.ana.ud2623e786	In the context of the consultation on the transport budget, there was clear publicity and good feedback on the historic promise that the red-greens had made. Why? Yes, because this is in line with the promises of the Soria Moria Declaration and not least with the national transport plan. We deliver, and it's about credibility – therefore the positive response to the budget. It is, of course, a rather formidable increase when we increase by DKK 2.5 billion in relation to the last draft budget of the Bondevik II government for 2006. This also means that the total appropriations for road and rail for the first time are at national level, and this cannot be repeated many times enough. The Bondevik II Government, with the Progress Party as a supporting party, was unable, during the previous period, to give priority to the allocations up to the national transport plan frameworks in force, although the level of ambition during the previous national transport plan period was significantly lower. The Bondevik II Government, with the Progress Party as a supporting party, did not comply with the overall national road and rail transport plan level in a single state budget from 2002 to 2006, with the exception of 2005, where, through the agreement with the Progress Party, the National Road Budget Transport Plan framework was complied with, as I understand it. Even with the support of the Progress Party in three budgetary agreements, it has not been possible to deliver on the promises of transport. In addition, I am very surprised that Right with its great interest in betting, among other things. on road construction, neither increased road appropriations nor launched the proposal on road funds when the party itself was in government. In addition, we inherited a lag in operation and maintenance from the previous government. This is also the background to the proposal to increase operational and maintenance efforts by 500 million. kr, an increase of 25 pst. from 2006 to 2007. This is necessary to improve safety and accessibility of the road network. During Bondevik II, with the Progress Party as a supporting party, we got a weathering of the road network in Norway, not a lift. So a little visit to the Advance Party. The Progress Party promises inter alia: tearing the toll stations, but the lot is unable to do so. As the seriousness approaches, they will not be able to cancel the debt in their alternative budget. The progress party knows well how much it costs to cancel the debts of the toll companies. There is a long way between words and action from the Party of Advancement. The Progress Party got less in the road sector on its budget agreements with the Bondevik II government than the red-green government increased in the course of three weeks last autumn. It has to be a little fluffy. This means that the Progress Party does not have the ability to prioritise this when it comes to putting it into practice. One of the most important demands of business was transportation. Good transport solutions are a good framework for business and housing. This is the strongest growth in road appropriations of 15 years, and for rail of 25 years. We are also pleased that the appropriations allocated to the railway in 2007 are at the level of the National Transport Plan. The budget also takes into account the completion in 2007 of the expansion of the GSM-R communication system and the development of remote control on the Northern Railways on the Mosjøen-Bodø route. In addition, there will be crossing tracks south of the Sea, at Eierstream. This is helping to strengthen the Nordlandsbahn. There has been a large increase in freight traffic on this route. In addition, it is important to realize the Gevingåsen tunnel and that this project is seen in the context of the extension of the Værnes airport. Coast Norway is important for the value creation of the country. We therefore need to focus particularly on maritime transport, port development, maritime safety and oil protection. Our objective in the national transport plan is more freight from road to rail and sea, and conditions must then be made right for it. An instrument to provide efficient and safe maritime transport is to further develop ports as a logistics hub. Proposals for a revised port and water law will be an important element in this respect. It is important to carry out an overall review of all charges and charges in this sector. A step on the road is a balance between modes of transport. One of the Government’s proposals is that municipal ports should be included in the VAT range from 1 January 2007. This will lead to both economic and administrative relief for ports and will be positive for both carriers and users. It is important that the national transport plan be met in this area as well. I would like to stress that the coast and, in particular, the fisheries-dependent municipalities depend on good port conditions, and in particular that there are good framework conditions for this industry. In the budget setting, the other parties mention the City Tunnel. I refer here to St.prp. No 29 for 2006-2007, to be dealt with in Stortinget on Friday. Finally, we are doing well to comply with the National Transport Plan and the Soria Moria Declaration. [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12.ana.ud2623e818	I am happy to be the Council of State in a government that is fulfilling the promise of increased investment in transport, and that in areas by area delivers good results. The 2007 Transport Budget, which the Stortinget will adopt today, is historic in several areas. The Government of Stoltenberg II is the first government since the National Transport Plan was introduced, which follows the path to the State Road Administration and the Railway Agency for one year, i.e. 2007, in accordance with the Stortinget’s decision for the National Transport Plan. The 2007 budget means a lift for both road and rail. They collect the proceeds to the State Road Administration and the Iron Children’s Agency, with approximately 2 billion kroner from the aged budget in 2006 and with about 2.5 billion DKK measured against the 2006 draft budget by the Bondevik II Government. The road budget is clearly the best in many years, while the rail budget is undoubtedly the best in modern times. I am also very satisfied with the fact that the government has prioritised increased investment in operation and maintenance for both road and rail. Efforts to maintain are neglected over many years and under many governments. With the 2007 draft budget, the Government of Stoltenberg II introduces a shift in trends by stopping further decay on the road network. This is pure reason. This policy is an important distinction between this government and the Bondevik II government. The Bondevik II Government, with the right as a dominant party and with the Progress Party as a central settlement party in the Stortinget, was not close to following the level from the Stortinget’s treatment of the National Transport Plan for the budgets of the State Road Service and the Railway Agency for some of the years 2002-2005, despite the fact that the level of national transport plans in these years was at a significantly lower real level than at present. Operation and maintenance were never prioritised in the budgetary agreement with the Progress Party. Only one year, in the 2005 autumn agreement on the state budget, the Progress Party had a positive impact on more operations and maintenance, with 1 million. kr. Mainly, there are relatively small differences between the Government's draft budget and the three previous government parties' alternative budget proposals for 2007 for the transport sector. It is gratifying that there is a broad political agreement on the broad lines of the transport policy, and that annual efforts must be made within a fiscal defence framework, where there is a reasonable balance between the investment on the road and the investment on public transport, including the railways, and where environmental concerns are also emphasised. The real difference in economic policy, including the transport policy, is between the Progress Party and the other political parties on the Stortinget. Despite the recession, the Progress Party proposes to spend about 25 billion dollars more in oil money in 2007 than the Government. They propose, among other things: cancelling the debts of the toll companies which at the end of 2005 amounted to DKK 11.4 billion, without introducing it as a concrete promise. The party is constantly flagging new and populist views, such as the earmarking of parts of the redundancies of the State pension fund – abroad, the Oil Fund, for the development of transport networks, an own foreign budget there, among others. foreign contractors shall build roads in Norway without affecting the Norwegian economy. It is difficult to understand how a credible civil option could be created when the largest party has a budgetary policy which, to them, deviates from the budgetary policy of the other opposition parties. To the right, I would like to say that the government shares the party's view of the great value of the network. I have pointed out, on several occasions, that good transport and communication solutions are of decisive value to the development of a viable business life and to the establishment of a country-wide economy, and that good roads are in a special position both locally and centrally. However, I find the Right's criticism of the government's 2007 fight against it a little credulous. For four years under the government of Bondevik II, and with the Minister of Finance, the right did not have the power to raise anything in the roadways. They were well below real levels in 2006 and 2007. One might wonder: is this policy Right and the other opposition parties going back to? I am particularly satisfied with the level of the 2007 road and rail budget achieved by the Government. It has been important for the Government to take on a major role in the maintenance process, and the Government has therefore prioritised more resources for this area than that underpinned by the National Transport Plan. A relatively large part of the road network is too poor a standard, including: due to a lack of road width and poor curve. This applies not least to the national roads. About half of the transport is carried out on the main road network. It is therefore important to have a well-developed tribal road network in all parts of the country. At least the two-field path should be yellow, mid-strip yellow. I see that my 5 minutes are running very fast. I should have said a lot about the railway budget, and I have to be allowed to draw on the list of speakers for a new article later in the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12.ana.ud2623e839	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12.ana.ud2623e842	Creeping has to be listened to, especially when it comes from the Center Party. The Council of State has to take that approach here, because she can't be responsible for raging the districts, which she really does. The centre party puts a damper on industrial development in districts. They don't give one penny to the transportation out in the districts, and they've just become a party that concentrates on public transport and rail in Oslo. That's what the Center Party has evolved into, and it's sad. In the past, the Central Party has in fact co-existed with the Progress Party on major parts of the transport policy, as the Council of State now, when the Progress Party repeats the proposals, in its submission called populist. Anyone who had to have an allocation that is slightly larger than the central government council has is populist. I think the local politicians of the Central Party should notice that in the whole country. It needs NOK 230 billion to get good tribal roads, DKK 100 billion to get a good railway, NOK 150 billion to get a high-speed train, NOK 40-50 billion to get good airfields. Where is the Council of State going to draw these funds from? Should this also be done by imposing a higher proportion of tolls on drivers?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12.ana.ud2623e851	My friend in the Christian People's Party said, "Not a thousand words/sigh prints like a doomsday track." I can ask the question back: What does it say after the Progress Party other than big words, after all the years they've been here on the Stortinget? The party of progress has shown little understanding of the existence of traffic rules in economic policy as well. In a conjuncture, the Progress Party will spend about 23 billion dollars more oil money than the Government – full gas in a situation where all the warning lights allow for speed adjustment after the increase. The implementation of the Progress Party’s policy would impose fines in the form of higher interest rates on most people and weaken the competitiveness of Norwegian business. The central party delivers to the government. We're delivering $1.5 billion more than Bondevik's 2006 budget proposal. This means that we can start many important projects in the districts. We can start the project on E6 west of Alta. We can start up important race protection projects in many states. We can improve the national road network otherwise. We have increased the maintenance budget by DKK 0.5 billion – which really means something to the districts, because the funds are used to improve curves, dangerous turns and rounds – you name it! It shows again. [[The President clubs.]] It also makes the big bet on asphalt, which we see that the left is opposite, but to which others are slipping.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12.ana.ud2623e860	The President will ask the speaker to respect the speaking time of up to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12.ana.ud2623e863	I have to remind the Minister of Transport that the Bondevik II government fulfilled its own Sem declaration on the road, and was far more concerned with public transport. But it must be fun to be a Minister of Transport when you take over an economy that makes it possible to bet, which she now has the opportunity to bet. In addition, Bondevik II had to carry out a clean-up scheme to get the economy in order. I want to bring forward a single matter for the Minister of Transport. Since the representative Eirin Fallet was so liberatingly clear in his reply earlier in a line change, it might be interesting to hear if the Council shares the view of the largest government party that it is now important to solve the problems with Rv. 2 through South Odal.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12.ana.ud2623e870	First, to the claim that the government of Bondevik II complied with. The Bondevik II government did not. It did not meet the national transport plan target for a single year on rail. They delivered one year on the road – it was in the 2005 budget. If a person calculates the OPS bet and uses a procurator's bill in relation to it, we can approach the representative's summation, but I got the bill for the OPS projects. 400 million. Every year, they will charge my budget for the future and tie it up so that I can't give priority to other things. In the case of rv. 2, I and the Government are concerned that this matter should be resolved as quickly as possible. That's what she's got to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12.ana.ud2623e877	The centre party has a tradition of being very offensive in relation to taking care of the Post Office and the postal services in the country. In this way, we've been very much together. After the Central Party came into government, it looks as if the consensus on what it's going to look like for the Post forward has become significantly larger. However, we have allowed ourselves to express concern about the strong increase in the newspaper portfolio and the conversion of the magazine sending routines introduced by the Posten. For some local and non-governmental organisations, such an increase in expenditure poses major challenges. In particular, it's the new minimum weight of 150 grams that creates an unreasonable cost increase. That is why we have asked the Council of State to look at this and to assess the possibility of a compensation scheme. Can the Council of State promise that the voluntary organizations that face increased expenditure on magazine postage will be heard in the year ahead?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12.ana.ud2623e884	The fact that this government has allowed the Post to retain some of the rights of one, of course, has not pushed the Post's economy as much as he had been about the previous government's policy had been implemented. Nevertheless, there has been an increase in the postage, for which the Government has created a compensation scheme in relation to newspapers, especially smaller newspapers and so-called opinion-provoking newspapers. I register a request from voluntary organisations for an add-on scheme. I'm not sure if such an arrangement belongs at home in my budget – to the extent that it has to be evaluated – but it will get one in which case come back. We have, as I said, created a system for the important, meaningful newspapers, and I'm very happy that we've got it. Then you get a chance to come back to your favorite volunteer organizations.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12.ana.ud2623e892	The current government has continued the beginning of routes from the Bondevik II government, and that's good. This government has given more money to the municipalities, and we also have some money to do. However, this is the answer left gets every time we ask for the reward scheme. Does the Minister for Transport think that these two instruments are sufficient to dampen the traffic in our big cities? Or will the Minister of Transport, in line with the representative of Langeland, increase the reward system in the revised and next state budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12.ana.ud2623e899	First of all, I have to ask the representative Tenden if she really thinks that the compensation scheme is more important than the municipal economy for the ability of the large and small municipalities to implement public transport investment. The compensation scheme is, with respect to reporting, small amounts of money in this context, when, for example: sees what the Municipality of Oslo uses for public transport. So let's keep the ratios. The most important thing this government can do is to give the municipalities more money, so that they can give priority to public transport. The government has had a formidable investment in public transport – only in the Oslo area have we increased the investment from 300 million. NOK 1 billion or more. It means much more than the compensation scheme would have done. The remuneration scheme shall be evaluated, and we shall return to the Storting in the next budget. We're going to follow up the Soria Moria statement and the commitments that lie there.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12.ana.ud2623e908	In relation to the scheme, I hope for more clarifying answers than for counter-questions. So for overheating in the economy. Machine contractors have repeatedly said that they have a capacity of NOK 6-7 billion more in road construction. Does the Council of State think they're wrong? The Central Party councils, a toll-absorbing party, have in this government put a Norwegian record into use of tolls. When this government kicks in, it's the other one that pays. 10 billion has passed Stortinget – and 7 billion is paid in tolls. The Council of State supports the fact that when local initiatives take place, there is a charge to be accepted. Will it also say yes when it comes to removing a fee? There are a majority in the municipality of Bergen to remove the heavy-duty tyre charge introduced by local political decisions. Now you've repented, and you want the arrangement gone. Will the Council of State ensure that local initiatives can be implemented?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12.ana.ud2623e917	There were many questions in 1 minute. When it comes to the mechanics, I have a very good relationship with them and with the organisation National Association of Construction Industries, and with others with whom we cooperate. We discuss both the amount of flexibility and what you can put in. It's not the only decision for the size of the budget, and it knows the representative Blackevik very well. When it comes to barley, we have a huge pressure. When the plant is involved, the pressure is not so great. That's what I'm talking about with the machine technicians. When it comes to tolls, we can spend many minutes discussing it, but I mention: I consider tolls to be local initiatives, and my job has been to bring them to the Storting to decide. I'm going to keep going on with that. Local initiatives when it comes to bringing down tolls, I will also listen carefully.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12.ana.ud2623e926	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12.ana.ud2623e929	The government of Stoltenberg delivers. This is particularly the case in the field of transport and communication. The existing maintenance budget is a visible evidence of new policies in the transport sector. We have major challenges in the transport sector across the country. Traffic volumes are increasing as we have been in deficits for several years, both with new construction and maintenance of roads and tracks. The opposition is offensive in today's debate. They represented the bulk of the population in the previous period and have to take responsibility for the situation we're in. It is all the more gratifying that the Government is now adding to the historical commitment to trade in this draft budget. The summer media focus on road standards in this country has made it clear to everyone that we need to increase maintenance, not just start new development projects, as Bondevik II tended to do. If we are to succeed in improving transport and communication conditions, we must bet on both road, track, air and sea. In view of the aims of reducing the accidents and reducing environmental disadvantages, the one-sided effort of the Progress Party on the road is going to be completely wrong. Such a drastic cut in the railway appropriations proposed by the Progress Party will lead to increased traffic in traffic and chaos on the roads. The Progress Party writes in the budget setting that they are for the railway where it is profitable. But the fact is that the trains in and around the big cities cost the state the most, and at the same time that's where we need the trains the most. Railways are given a real boost in the Government's draft budget. It provides rooms for important extensions such as Lysaker-Sandvika, Sandnes-Stavanger and Ski Station. I am also pleased with the construction of crossing tracks and freight terminals linked to the Dovrebahn. This will improve the conditions for freight traffic. This is hopefully the beginning of an expansion of several crossing and double tracks on the track. Future budgets at current level should include double-track Eidsvoll-Hamar and freight terminal spaces at Ottawa. I believe that the increasing traffic on the Dovrebahn suggests that we have to extend the double track to Lillehammer. There is also increasing traffic on the Gjøvik track, and several crossing tracks and upgrading of the road ahead are important. This budget is a raise for our tribal roads. E16 is upgraded with important development projects in Akershus and in Sogn and Fjordane. The goal is a coherent tribal road standard on this main year of travel between Oslo and Bergen. I find that in Valdres they are quite impatient after starting with long planned and necessary expansions on the E16. Development of Rv. 4 has stopped due to disagreement about the plans for the line in the municipality of Lunner. I hope the Minister for the Environment will contribute to a rapid clarification here. E6 Oslo-Trondheim is one of our most important tribal roads with high transit traffic and a lot of heavy transport. It is good that we have got a breakdown of the development parcels so that the expansion of the Gardermoen–Colomoen can start in 2007. A unanimous committee points in the setting to the poor road standard of E6 through Gudbrandsdalen. This is one of the most accident-affected road sections in Norway, and the Workers' Party is concerned that an extension that needs to be considered in connection with the next roll-out of NTP. The majority believe it is important that further work be done on the planning and development of E6 from Colomoen and through Lillehammer. Traffic safety is important. The government has a vision of zero-killed and hard-damaged traffic. There are many measures that need to be taken on and along existing terms. Traffic safety must be essential for all future road planning and construction. Following many tragic accidents on the Lillehammer-Øyer route, a research project was launched to test different measures on this accident-related route. Physical measures have been taken with mid-range separation on both two and four-field road sections, and there is a large training and awareness programme related to the Veg Museum. The project shows that such measures are useful. This must be continued in order to gain the necessary experience in the most important work of the transport policy, namely to avoid the tragic accidents on our roads.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12.ana.ud2623e948	I don't quite manage to raise myself above the very satisfaction that the government parties present in this room, that they keep what they promise. They actually don't. On the roadside there are 600 million. kr in relation to the promise in the national transport plan and the Soria Moria declaration. On the railway side, it looks even darker, where the red-green government is close to 1 billion kroner on the back. You can't talk so much about other people's budgets, but you can make your own promises. In addition, this government is using a law firm. The budget documents show that there is only an increase in appropriations of 168 million. kr to initial investment on the road for next year. The rest of the estate is actually covered by the toll paid by the municipalities and county councils. This piece of art can be achieved by drawing more than provided by these actors, who once again have to finance loans to compensate for the lack of government appropriations. In particular, the County of Østfold pointed this out to the Committee. So apparently this looks like a bet, but the sum of commitments to co-financers is growing and obviously has to be covered in future budgets. It should be exciting to follow. In addition, such charges will also be more expensive. Otherwise, in this budget, we have witnessed a historic retreat. The success of the OPS projects was gradually heavy to bear for the red-green lots. This is why the new concept of ‘project financing’ was introduced as an alternative, with great words and high expectations last autumn. But no, the red-green government itself puts the matter to death in the proposal of the state budget. The expectations of the rest of us are thus all the greater for the Government's evaluation of the success story with OPS. We're looking forward to that. But do we really have to wait longer for this evaluation? No, I see no reason now to wait any longer to continue this success story. The majority have, with great difficulty, communicated themselves in the form of a note, but the short and the long is that this has gone very well. The Government wants to develop the OPS scheme, as it pleases. But let us make use of the unique opportunity we now have, with capacity in the construction sector, for example. to accelerate projects such as the Arna tunnel and the Mosseweg tunnel – bottom-solid projects with all assumptions present, including significant environmental improvements. The right is impatient and wants the Government to show action and creativity, so that the more internationally known BOT scheme becomes a natural development in the OPS success. A number of important road projects are in line and are suitable for exciting and comprehensive thinking, where OPS or BOT is the answer. In this context I mention the E39 Rogfast and ferries-free coastal line between Stord and Bergen, the west corridor E18 and the country's most accident-affected road, the E6 from the Gardermoen past Mjösa and up the Gudbrandsdalen. In addition to the two former urban projects, these are three navigable projects of national interest calling for creative solutions for the rapid realisation for the benefit of business and other road users. I must be allowed to give some praise to the Minister of Transport as well. I think she has accepted the initiative of the Right on the South Norwegian high-speed ring in a very positive way. After the German Consultant Group went a little wild – if I may say so – in the tunnel darkness and out on the moraine mass and mercury camp, we have also recorded that the Ministry of Transport and the Railway Agency intend to follow up the expectations of a large majority of the Stortinget on the high-speed rail in South Norway, so that the distances between the cities where the potential is highest, namely Oslo–Bergen, Bergen–Stavanger and Stavanger–Kristiansand–Telemark–Vestfold–Oslo, will also be part of the process and decision-making base for high-speed projects in NTP. The vast majority of the Grand Duchy in this case testifies that today's big politicians also have visions of a society that will serve future generations in a way that will also serve the business that will exist in ten, twenty, and perhaps up to one hundred, years.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12.ana.ud2623e961	It is the year of the year’s budget debate – for what should the opposition focus on when this government has submitted a draft budget which represents such a broad commitment to transport and communication? Not only does the Government comply with the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre's decision in opposition with the support of the Progress Party in the treatment of the National Transport Plan, with a budget of more than DKK 2.5 billion for road and rail development and maintenance, the Government also has a broad approach to the challenges we have in facilitating efficient, safe and environmentally sound transport, which I miss in the transport policy of the opposition parties and in the media's focus on the theme. It is undoubtedly important to set aside funds for the maintenance and investment of both the road and rail networks, ports and fairways — and airports. But is it really one-sided to expand and maintain the road network here in the country, something VG, the Progress Party and partly the Right have been focusing on for the whole year, and on which they have tried to get the debate to focus? Or is it right to spend all the money on high-speed trains, as the Right proposes in the proposal for a high-speed ring of about NOK 100 billion, but to which they have not mentioned since, and for which they have not spent any money? I believe that the Government – with its approach to transport policy in its 2007 draft budget – is showing a broad understanding of the challenges. The focus is on all transport solutions, with a focus on transport solutions that see the transport modes in the context – that the modes of transport are used in conjunction with each other where appropriate. It is through such an approach that we are facilitating efficient transport management. An example of this is that this government has relaunched the planning of further development of a double-track railway through Moss in Østfold, where it also facilitates transhipment directly from rail to boat, a project which has been in the drawer under the Bondevik administration. The draft budget begins with a more environmentally sound conversion of car taxes by providing tax relief for cars and fuels that generate less CO2 and NOx emissions. The working party would like to give this a high priority in the future budgets, so that we can have a broad focus on more environmentally sound cars, buses and trucks and on more environmentally sound fuels. The first hydrogen pump is opened in Rogaland. The first bioethanol pump is opened in Oslo. In Fredrikstad, ten of the city's buses go on biogas, a bet that should be continued in other cities. We want to continue to focus on the development of hydrogen and biofuels, among other things. by facilitating the use of alternative fuels. Therefore, as proposed by the Government, it is important to focus on charging for research and development in this field. After a preliminary warm, rainy and snowy winter, it will soon become a popular requirement to do more to halt climate change, including in the transport sector. When it becomes a demand from people most, even the Progress Party will have to change its transport policy in a more environmentally sound direction. The lot is on its way, with a president who, together with the Right, wants a high-speed track but is currently being overrun by his party group here on the Stortinget. It's coming - just wait and see. Air and noise pollution is another aspect of transport policy that we must take seriously. The government's work on the action plan on noise and the follow-up to national air pollution targets are important measures to limit emissions. Investment in efficient and environmentally sound transport is also a focus on road safety. The zero vision is at layer level. This is important to follow-up, focusing on good driving training and awareness-raising among drivers, on safe roads, built with a standard and in a road width that is proportionate to proper traffic forecasts, and on controls. The Government has launched pilot projects for driving training in secondary school. We have the zero vision project in Uppland, and we have awareness-raising work – with actions and posters along the roads – that has been going on for some years and that has an effect. Also important to prevent accidents is the extension of the mandate of the State's Transport Disaster Commission to road transport — and soon to maritime transport. I welcome the fact that an independent body has such responsibility for the entire transport sector. The government’s 2007 draft budget reflects a comprehensive approach to transport policy — not piecemeal and divided, as the former governments have implemented it. It shows both the total amount allocated and the increased focus on project financing and on a coherent development – rather than the launch of many small individual parcels, as the Left Minister of the previous government did. This is a good transport budget. It is therefore difficult to be in opposition this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12.ana.ud2623e997	Coast Norway is important for the value creation of the country. Maritime transport, port development, maritime safety and oil protection must focus in particular on the overall transport policy. The Government wants to facilitate safe and coastal transport, with better labelling and maintenance of fairways and the development of modern navigation systems. We also have objectives for increased maritime transport, increased preparedness and increased maritime safety. The government's job of getting more transport by sea is because more goods by sea contribute to: enhancing the feasibility of environmental improvements in accessibility All are key objectives of transport policy. As an instrument for efficient and safe maritime transport, the Government will further develop ports as logistics hubs in the supply chain and in the transport corridors. Proposals for a revised port and water law will be an important element in this respect. The case will be sent to the hearing in a short time. We will also carry out an overall review of all charges and charges in the sector, with a view to equalising the conditions of competition for modes of transport. The conversion of the charging and charging system must take place over time. The reason is simply that today’s fees represent large amounts, which may have to be recovered in other ways. The vision of balancing user funding between modes of transport remains constant and will lead further work on the national transport plan. A step towards the alignment of modes of transport is the Government's proposal that municipal ports should also be included in the VAT area from 1 January 2007. This will bring both economic and administrative relief to the ports. Ports are allowed to deduct input VAT, and one avoids shifting VAT that cannot be deducted to the carriers and, ultimately, to the users. The conversion also implies that the municipal ports will be equalised with private ports and other transport infrastructures. In this area, maritime transport will thus have framework conditions in line with other modes of transport. It is good news that the port sector will save 70 million. kr, which will benefit both providers and users of maritime transport! Increased activities in the northern regions — both Norwegian and Russian — provide new challenges in maritime safety and oil protection. We have to take care of the interests of the coastal states in this picture. The government has therefore launched several measures to strengthen maritime safety and preparedness in the northern part of the country. On 5 December of this year, Norway was fully implemented by the IMO, the United Nations Maritime Organisation, for proposals for the establishment of a navigation manager outside the territorial waters of the Vardø-Røst section. The new routes mean that ship traffic which poses a risk of pollution is moved further off the coast and ensures better response time for Norwegian authorities in the event of an acute contamination risk. The sailing trail is located within the AIS coverage of the Coastal Works, so that traffic can be monitored from the new North-Norway traffic centre, which will be put into operation in Vardø in January 2007. In addition, a single Norwegian-Russian reporting and information system is in place. It will contribute to strengthening the control and monitoring of ship traffic from Russia. With these measures, the Government has taken an overall approach to strengthening maritime safety in the north and has established a good system to meet the challenges of increasing oil-related traffic in the north. The budget submitted for 2007 will facilitate increased value creation in Coastal Norway, contribute to increased maritime transport, as well as to good maritime safety and coastal oil protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12.ana.ud2623e1042	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12.ana.ud2623e1045	I want to be positive that the Council of State and the Government are now making proposals to grant $5 million. kr for the correction of the Brevik stream. We're very happy about that, but it's a drop in the ocean when the total cost is 80 million. kr. Can the Council of States confirm that this will be followed up in 2008? Since the Minister of Coastal Affairs is also Minister of Industry, it may be interesting to know how he views the challenges this poses for the industry in Grenland, which has an extra cost of about half. Forty million. kr per. years while waiting for Brevikström to be executed. Can the Minister confirm that we will finally get that trial in 2008?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12.ana.ud2623e1053	It is important for the business community in Grenland, as the representative says, to sort out the maritime transport situation in the border region. That's why this project is actually going to start up a year earlier than it was actually planned. That's right, as the representative says, 5 million will be allocated. kr in the first year. It's because it's a start-up year, and because the project has to start. The project takes three years. It is intended to be completed in 2009. One has always calculated that it would take so long, because one has to take into account, among other things. to business. And business transport needs need to be organised in such a way that shipping does not stop completely, but adapts to local conditions. I can therefore guarantee the representative that this will be followed up. It's being followed up in the order I mentioned. So the project will start a year earlier than what has been suggested.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12.ana.ud2623e1060	Government grants to, inter alia: Fishing ports often generate tens of thousands of lives in investments by industry itself. Right is busy with this. We have reviewed the many plans available, and in our budget option we propose support for Gjerdsvika in More and Romesdal and Grylfjord in Troms. The Council of State is also Minister of Industry, and I am quite convinced that he sees the connection between public and private investment, which often yields very good results. The majority do not support this proposal. Nevertheless, it may be tempting to ask the Council of State whether he has sympathy for the proposal and whether he will commit himself to the implementation of these plans before what is in the documents.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12.ana.ud2623e1067	I can promise that the Council of State will sympathise with the proposal. That is why it lies in the long-term investment plan. Had it not been for the proposals, such as: the proposal to invest in Grylfjord – had not been included in the long-term investment plan. But there's something going on in time, because other projects that are now being allocated money have been prioritised first. It is absolutely right that the issue of fishing ports is essential for the fisheries sector and also for other industrial activities. For this reason, the Government grants the amounts it makes, but in a priority order – for the ports that are now prioritised, in 2007, 2008 and 2009, are also important projects for the same industry, but they are in some other places.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12.ana.ud2623e1074	I took up the current situation for N.E.W. in my article. Corridor, or the China-USA transport corridor via Narvik, which is a hugely important strategic bet for the northern regions, and which can mean the development of the Narvik transport sector and for North Norway as a whole that is incredibly exciting. So now you have entered into a phase in which you have restructured the company, the municipality of Nordland has gone into more money, people are at work – they are actually ready to enter into contracts for carriers both on the railway side and on the coastal side. An application for a State guarantee has been submitted for the trial period of six months. The Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs has taken on a coordinating responsibility for this. Where in the state this money is to come from is so far the same for them. The question is whether they can get a quick answer as to whether or not they will receive that guarantee.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12.ana.ud2623e1081	It is true that it has been a while since the application came, but it has not been. The Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs has always worked closely with, among others. The municipality of Nordland, to which the representative refers, to go through the financial base and the financial structure of the project. We need to do this because the risk associated with the allocation is properly assessed in advance and the nutritional basis is properly assessed. That work is about to end. As I said, it has come very far, in close cooperation with the county council and other actors. Without I can now say anything about whether the answer to the application is yes or no, I can say that we are about to give an answer to the application, starting with the good process that the department has been in all the way.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12.ana.ud2623e1088	I have two requests for the Council of State. One concerns the City Ship Tunnel, which is mentioned in the budget paper, and where the said feedback has arrived in the ejaculation. Why should it take almost three years to get back to Stortinget, even though we are going to expand the capacity so that the Hurtigruten can also go through the tunnel that we want to build? The second declaration concerns oil protection preparedness and the reintroduction of a main depot on Fedje. The councils are probably familiar with the history. In the last period, an overall collapse – the Committee on Transport – wanted to restore a main depot in Fedje. The matter is discussed in the budget. The size will be appropriately briefed on the assessment. Why is this going to take so long? It is a matter of restoring a main oil protection depot in one of the areas in Norway where there is the greatest traffic of large tankers. This is urgent. What will the government do to speed things up?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12.ana.ud2623e1095	First to City Ship Tunnel. The study carried out in relation to the original proposal for the City Tunnel showed a poor financial basis for the implementation of that project. Instead of just putting the project away, the Government has decided that it should consider an even more comprehensive alternative, as the representative rightly says, as among others. can take larger boats, but will also pay attention to the possible tourism benefits of such a project. In order to do so thoroughly, the type of investigation – for it is a new project and not just an extension of a few metres – must be subject to the Government’s quality assurance requirements throughout the process. That is why we have not dared to promise that it will come before 2009. We like to keep what we promise. That is why it comes as soon as possible, but at least in 2009. In the case of Fedje and main warehouse, there's a cache there today. There is some oil protection at Mongstad and in other areas nearby — so that no one should get the impression that there is no readiness there at all — but the assessment of Fedje as the main stock comes when the Government goes through the overall structure of the main stocks in Norway. Then we're going to see Fedje in conjunction with other main storage options, so that, as a whole, oil protection equipment becomes the best possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12.ana.ud2623e1105	No more words have been asked for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12.ana.ud2623e1108	The budget is more than a figure – it is also a policy. Although the Government has changed investment crowns with maintenance crowns in the budget, it does not solve the maintenance challenge. The delays in road maintenance are formidable. That the government stops further increase in the aftermath is good. That the government is doing this at the expense of investing in new roads is not good at all. In order to rebuild Norwegian road capital, innovation is also needed on the financing side. The progress party has tried for a long time. We are pleased that in the 2007 budget together with the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left, we are proposing a programme for government loans with interest compensation for maintenance of county roads. There is good experience with the State loan scheme and associated interest compensation for upgrading school buildings in municipalities and county councils that started in 2002. The scheme serves as a government contribution to a joint effort to re-establish a large backlog in building maintenance. Over the course of six years, 15 billion kroner have been put at the disposal of municipalities and counties. That system has unanimous support in Stortinget. The funds have been strongly requested and have been used in their entirety. Road maintenance in counties and municipalities has a lag of 12 billion kroner and 20 billion kroner respectively. We believe that a similar system as for school construction should be assessed for road maintenance as well. It is, of course, assumed that the scheme is within the framework of the Local Government Act. It is important to underline the importance of the so-called secondary road network, i.e. the county roads, in the country's overall road system and in value creation across the country. It is therefore natural to start with a system of highways. So, together with the Right Party, the Christian Party and the Left, we are promoting proposals to work out such a solution. The party hopes that the government parties will come after it. A good school - building system can also be a good system for county roads. This should, of course, be a proposal which, at least with the Central Party, with the Minister for Transport at the head, should be able to give his enthusiastic support. The budget is more than a figure – it is also a policy. Therefore some words about alternative funding: The Progress Party is satisfied that an overall opposition is behind Public Private Cooperation, OPS, as an alternative method of financing. It appears as the only option after the Minister of Finance has cancelled the government party’s own alternative model, referred to as project financing. The first two of the preliminary three OPS test projects, the E39 Orkdal Road and the E39 Lwgdal – Fleckfjord, were completed almost 40 pst. faster than would have been the case for traditional financing of road projects. The OPS solution has so far provided a faster implementation and foreseeable cost, including for operation and maintenance. International experience shows efficiency gains of at least 15 pst. The Progress Party believes it is important to provide the evaluation results as quickly as possible. We'd like an en route evaluation. The Progress Party believes that Public Private Cooperation should be used as a form of acquisition for projects where there are significant socio-economic gains in rapid implementation and gains with full funding from the start. This does not necessarily mean further privatisation in relation to the traditional implementation of large infrastructure projects, but it should be possible to think rationally even if the word ‘private’ is included in the method designation. We need to find good methods to help significantly improve the level of investment in infrastructure in order to maintain and strengthen the competitiveness of Norway. Public Private Cooperation is a good method. So a few words about the national transport plan, which is also mentioned in the setting. Over many decades, lack of road appropriations has caused Norway to lag behind in the transport sector. Norway has a traditional distance disadvantage in the national value creation process. A lack of investment in road development and road maintenance has resulted in Norway having, in addition, suffered road congestion through a non-targeting national road network. The Progress Party believes that the central authorities need to implement several actions independently of ongoing planning processes with a new national transport plan in order to achieve a rise in Norwegian road standards. As one such measure, I refer to the proposals made by the Progress Party during the debate on an infrastructure fund of SEK 300 billion earmarked for annual returns on road construction, the development of rail and public services and on ICT measures. The Progress Party does not use up the funds, but we want to invest in Norwegian capital – not in unsafe foreign securities. The Party notes with satisfaction that the Right will also establish road funds. The method is accepted by the Right. The Progress Party hopes that several games will follow. Work on national transport plans has become very extensive, time-consuming and bureaucratic. The current financial instrument based on annual budgetary frameworks where investments in the transport sector last 50 years and are treated as annual consumption also leads to low cost-effective resource use. The Progress Party believes that it is more important to accelerate the work on upgrading and investment in the transport network, especially within the core network, while significantly simplifying and simplifying the comprehensive planning work currently under way in the preparation of national transport plans. We have just heard in the previous reply that the reason why we need to spend three years looking at a new project that has been partially investigated is the quality assurance and planning process of the central authorities. And here it has to simplify. The Party points out that this relates in particular to the work on the tribal and national road network. The Progress Party recommends a much stronger government governance to reduce the time and cost of building state roads and to avoid unnecessary delays in large projects. I refer to the root network investigations that came up in 2040, among other things. State Road Administration and the Railway Agency. The Progress Party believes that these investigations provide a good basis for its own core network communication to the Stortinget on the objectives, priorities and financing of investments in the core network within the three major transport sectors. We propose to get such a root network message to Stortinget. We also put forward proposals for renewal and simplification in the planning process. We are engaged in using foreign competences, as the Norwegian trade union community may seem to be too little good to ensure just such renewal in planning and planning processes. It has recently been done by the Railway Agency. I'll leave the fact that the most enthusiastic high-speed drivers don't like the conclusion of the first round. But the method is accepted. It should be extended to other transport sectors, in particular the road sector, where, in our view, the State Road Service has an excessively dominant position and an influential position. I would like to stress that, in particular, between 2010 and 2040, Norway has financial opportunities to implement a national transport promise based on rapidly increasing oil wealth. Such a national transport commitment will also ensure a long-term and good socio-economic return on oil wealth, with much less uncertainty than the financial location of oil wealth in foreign securities. Finally, a few words about high-speed rails – the Progress Party has registered the first sub-examination, and we have recorded that the consultants are clearly sceptical about the potential for high-speed rails in Norway. It is because of both the high costs and the low population base for the operation of such tracks. The Progress Party rejects further investigation and further bet on high-speed public-sector railways. According to the Railway Agency itself, the expected investment costs for building 1000 km of high-speed rail are between 100 and 150 billion kroner. The railway system itself has recently submitted its core network investigation towards 2040 and needs between 78 and 104 billion kroner in order to get normal operation on today's railway safely and efficiently. Within a global transport priority, the Progress Party, apart from strong road construction efforts, will give priority to today’s normal speed path rather than high-speed rail investment.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12.ana.ud2623e1159	It might sound strange to say this, but for the first time a government has kept what it has promised, and followed up the NTP. 2.5 billion more for transportation, road and track. It shouldn't be alarming, but it's actually. After many years of decay on Norwegian roads, we are now able to stop the decay from growing further. At the same time, we find room for investment on the road, and we give a boost to the railway sector. We're increasing investments on the railways by over 50 pst. in relation to our own 2006 budget. One thing I would like to highlight in the railway sector is the Government's commitment to freight traffic. This is done through the development of cross-rails and 450 million terminals. kr. This is an environmental effort and a road safety effort. Freight terminal at Alnabru in Oslo benefits the whole country, and it will increase the capacity of both Bergen and Trondheim, where the railway already accounts for over 50 pst. of freight traffic. Increased rail capacity provides good environmental solutions, but it also provides new and better opportunities for business. Crossrails on Jensen are an example of something that could give even better freight capacity to Bergen, while opening up faster driving times and better frequencies on passenger trains. The budget statement mentions Oslopackak 3. Here I am pleased to announce that the Government will inform you that it will do everything it can to get a quick KS1 investigation, which will again be crucial for how fast we get to Oslopackakt 3 and get it working. It should also mention the importance of the start of legislative work by the Government in order to allow the transfer of toll resources for the operation of public transport. These should be two parallel processes so that unnecessary delays do not occur. What is worth noting are also the comments of the Progress Party on Oslopackak 3. These are, to put it mildly, very different from the work now being carried out by the Progress Party's own travel agency in Oslo, Peter N. Myhre. The Oslo politicians agree on a proposal, but if it were the Progress Party in government at the same time as the Progress Party in Oslo's urban government, I think this could be very difficult to achieve, if not impossible. In its comments, the Progress Party denies the right to spend NOK 53.4 billion. At the same time, the Progress Party has made proposals and promised full financing of road projects and the cancellation of existing tolls far beyond what they have taken into account in their own budget. This has also been admitted by the representative of Sortevik in the Newspaper. It may seem that the representatives of the Progress Party on the Stortinget have not perceived the consensus in Oslo when they write: ‘The members of the Committee of the Progressive Party refer to the ongoing work on the establishment of an Oslopackak 3.’ By reading the comments of the Progress Party on Oslopackakt 3, you get good lessons in double standards. While it is first important to stress that there is a consensus that there should not be a rush-time charge, and that this is important for the consensus reached, the Progress Party in the next sentence removes the basis for cooperation when they write that it is inappropriate to spend money on public transport, neither on operations nor on investment. Oslopackakt 3 is too important for Oslo and the rest of the country that the principles of the Advance Party should be destroyed. Without Oslopackakt3 and the collective effort that lies there, Oslo would be suffocated by traffic, just as Oslo would be suffocated by traffic if the proposals of the Progress Party for the government purchase of services in the NSB had been adopted in this room. Most people would sit in line, queue, queue, with the proposals of the Progress Party. The Progress Party has also noted in the vote that the Oslo Progress Party has promoted a proposal for a referendum on tolls, a proposal which did not receive a majority among the other parties. Then I think it's in my place to remind you that the Progress Party in Oslo is in urban government. I would like to ask myself whether there is such a two-horse policy that potential future government partners could expect from the Progress Party also in this Chamber – one proposal from the government and one proposal from the Progress Party in the Chamber. A few weeks ago there was chaos in the public traffic of the Progress Party in Oslo. The remarks in this budget show something in the direction of further root and disorder. We're all going to be happy with the efforts of this government on the road, but we're also going to be happy that we have a government that has a consistent and predictable policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12.ana.ud2623e1188	First of all, a manifest misunderstanding instead – the council commented on the Brevik flow in a line and said that Brevik flow had been moved forward. The Brevik stream was already in place in 2005 and 2006, but was moved backwards by two different governments. Of course, I am very happy that it has come forward, but it was in the queue. It's not pushed forward, as the Council of State tried to answer to my reply. This government claims, and many on this pulpit today have claimed that this is a historic boost of $1 billion more to the railway. It's going to be very small when we know that the need is 80-100 billion kroner for the next 30-40 years to get a railway that can meet the challenges the railway is facing. The Norwegian railway will be caught by the present, whether we like it or not. For a long time, we have ignored the fact that, in very few cases, the railway will be able to compete with other transport solutions. The question we should ask ourselves is how we're going to meet this, and what we want with the railways in Norway. Should we continue to leave the railway as an environmental policy alibi, or should we take the necessary steps, although painful, to make the railway a contribution to alternative transport solutions? The solution to today's government, allowing traffic paths that have life's right, to subsidise routes that will never be profitable, the NSB is draining the necessary capital to provide a good and satisfactory offer of well-traffic routes. Because it is a fact that if the railway cannot become an efficient and competitive transport option, I am convinced that the train offer will crumble in a short time. For the Progress Party, the choice is very simple. We want and want to work for an efficient and modern railway, where the railway is able to deliver good and forward-looking solutions. Then it is important that the railway provides a good offer where this is desired as a transport option and there is a sufficient basis for it. This may mean that not everyone who today feels that trainsets are going through the road can do it in the future, in line with the fact that not everyone who wants it can get a four-field highway between home and work. It may be that in the future we should look at the different modes of transport in the context. Among other things, it might be appropriate to allow a new route in Westfold to go via Torp to strengthen Torp as an alternate aerodrome to, for example: Gardermoen. But in order to realize this, it will mean that one must also dry off prioritizing distances that obviously do not have or will not be able to have enough competitiveness in themselves to survive in the future. I will allow myself to refer to the Gjøvik Railway. There is a distance that has been deprived for several years but which, after being exposed to competition, has both increased the number of flights by 40 p.p., had a strong growth in the number of passengers while costs did not increase after the job was put at a competitive disadvantage. For the Progress Party, it is important to have an overall transport offer, which best meets the needs we have in Norway. This means that we are more concerned about ensuring that we have the best transport offer for residents and businesses across the country. It also means that we want to facilitate the best possible socio-economic use of the pot that the Ministry of Finance tries to limit each year. This may mean that some places are the right mode of transport, while others may be buses, cars, trucks or boats, or perhaps even the combination of the different modes of transport. The Party is committed to ensuring good framework conditions for the railway in which it can compete with other transport solutions or in cooperation with them. Because it is also a fact that there are very few places the train goes all the way home to the customer, and therefore you depend on that the other transport network is actually of good quality. Unfortunately, it seems that the government parties have forgotten when, in the fight for transport money, the railway takes so much of the total budget. At the same time, it is strange to hear the criticism that the Progress Party is now being met with from the representatives of the government parties in terms of the appropriations for the railways, because it is actually the case that the Progress Party in the State Budget for 2007 is proposing almost as much to the railways as the Government adopted for 2006. Then it becomes a little special that what was a pretty good red and green railway budget in 2006, in 2007 suddenly became a budget that will rage all over Norway. Obviously, someone is suffering from short-term memory failure when they can express themselves that way. Finally, I would like to remind myself that the Progress Party proposed to set up a separate infrastructure fund of NOK 300 billion, where the return of DKK 10–12 billion per autumn was proposed in connection with the census. years from 2008 would be used to invest in road, rail, public transport and broadband. Adherence to such a proposal would really be a historic promise and a decision that would really prove that one had the will and ability to achieve a large-scale transport effort in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12.ana.ud2623e1217	Finally, we have a government that meets the big expectations of the people about greater bets and more money for transportation and good communications. The current budgetary position is historic. Never before has a government been able to deliver on the road and on the road in relation to the national transport plan. Never before! I'm proud of this. I'm proud to be part of a team that now delivers according to the promises of the election campaign. This I know is being noticed outdoors among the people most. The total budget for transport is now $23.6 billion. In the Soria Moria Declaration, we promise a stronger commitment to culture, and we keep what we promise. Now we see the positive in the fact that the people have got a plural government, a government that builds its policy in a new and better direction, a direction that builds the country and gives individuals a better life, a direction that gives families greater security for health, children and work, and not least a government that gives business better framework conditions for developing, marketing and selling their products. This should form the basis for using the whole country. In that context, perhaps, transportation is most important of all. We're going to build roads, bridges and tunnels to dampen the distance obstacles. We're going to build an infrastructure that makes transport easier for business. In this, there is an essential willingness to find logistical nodes that make it possible to take advantage of different modes of transport, for the benefit of all. For all intra-traffic policies, security shall be as a basic plank. We're going to work actively to approach the zero vision. Everyone is entitled to safe passages, which parents can send their children to school without feeling insecure. Therefore, maintenance and racial protection have been two important and central elements of the budgetary process. Both of these entries have been significantly increased. The rate of growth in the lag has now been halted. We red-green have the goal of continuing the NTP level for the rest of the period. In addition, the 2006 aftermath shall be covered. In many parts of Coast Norway, ferries are an essential source of both joy and frustration. Five new gas ferries come into operation during 2007. These become state-of-the-art traffic machines, which also take environmental challenges seriously. The new technology that we now acquire through ferry construction must be able to be transferred to the construction of other types of ships. In order to obtain more transport by sea, it is necessary to establish a logistical hub for maritime transport. At the same time, the deepening and further development of several of our fishing ports is absolutely necessary. In many of these ports are modern fish processing establishments and food industries that have to buy and retrieve all their raw materials with trailers from other reception facilities, because the fishing boat no longer flows into the facilities. The finished product must likewise leave these companies. I am afraid of these companies at the end of the day that they are losing in competition. That is why I am pleased that we have made a comment on this in the budget position. Upgrading tunnels is another note that I am pleased with. The maintenance of the Freifjord tunnel in More and Romesdal has been pushed out in time. If local advance initiatives are taken, we will start with the maintenance of this important Kristiansund route in 2007. Another important issue for the coast is City skipstunell. The government has now decided to proceed with the project. The currently-executed distributions do not provide a basis for the execution of the project. The government will now initiate arrangements to clarify the consequences of extending the tunnel dimensions so that the Hurtigruta and other vessels up to 16,000 gross tons can benefit the tunnel. A tunnel with such dimensions will revolutionize the ability to carry goods and passengers past the most dangerous seapiece on our coast. Together with new opportunities for fast boating, travel and tourism, this project will clearly have great societal benefits. At the same time, such a project will make a significant contribution to our goal of getting more goods from land to sea.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12.ana.ud2623e1243	Information and communication technologies shall support a holistic policy to improve the well-being of the society, the competitiveness of business and the renewal of the public sector. The government's ambitions are to be at the forefront and to be a knowledge nation that is offensively exploiting and extracting ICT gains. To achieve that goal, we have to be a leader when it comes to ICT. We need to make a stronger commitment to digital skills for our citizens, for all age groups. We need to create an active and renewed industrial policy within ICT, which will make Norway attractive as the development arena. We need to make sure that our business community has access to public data on reasonable terms, thus facilitating a new development. Technological developments in the media and ICT must be based on open standards and universal design, including: to include the disabled. For the Government, it is a central goal that the individual citizen should not be dependent on purchasing a single software from a particular supplier in order to communicate with the public sector. In addition, increased use of open standards shall ensure good interaction within the public sector. So we're delivering a big effort on open standards and an open source in the 2007 budget, where we're proposing a 10 million prize. kr for that purpose. Open Source is an exciting development method for software because the information about how the software is built is freely available to everyone. The government is presenting an ICT message for the Storing in these days. The message should embrace a wide range of messages. It addresses several major themes and offers debate on key options and challenges for the community. It deals with competence and digital inclusion and looks at a development where universally designed solutions are preferred. They prescribe a renewed and effective public administration with good and standardized solutions that one can use when one wants it. A user logs in and uses public services when connecting to one. Until now, the anchoring of ICT policy has been through the eNoreg plans, which are largely inter-political. In some areas, we want to take greater steps than the previous government added, for example. in the case of broadband, the right of digital all-persons and a strong commitment to ICT in the school. The government presented an interim report for eNoreg in October 2009. He shows that we are at the forefront of international public services on the web, the dissemination of mobile technology, the use of ICT in industry and business, and good public registers and services. But we have some key challenges. There is a need for increased coordination across state enterprises and against the local government sector, and this will be addressed by the EEAG. Another challenge is to ensure digital inclusion. Nordics in general have sound knowledge of the use of ICT, but demographic differences remain. According to studies, about half of the workforce believe that their own knowledge of the use of the PC is too poor in relation to the job they are going to do. We need to take action to get a business that is also good in the future. As of October 2006, it was technically possible for 95 pst. of the country's population to connect to broadband and, fortunately, coverage is increasing. The total Norwegian broadband investment in 2006 is DKK 3.5 billion when we include the large private investment. Hence, it is a pleasure to be able to say that there is still a great investment willingness for broadband in Norway. A prerequisite for achieving the broadband target for all in 2007 is that one has a strong involvement from municipalities and municipalities in addition to the commercial players. The government has chosen to use the Høkom scheme as its tool to achieve broadband coverage. In order to ensure maximum coordination, we have asked the county councils to take on a coordinating role, insofar as the municipalities and regions are also involved. In the revision, we raised 50 million. kr to broadband. Then, in September, Høykom gave a total of 80 million. kr, it turns out that we – with the local funds as well – get an extension of about 200 million. kr. About a third of the households without broadband had broadband connections based on the revisions. When we have a record run of 121.6 million. kr to Hohekom next year, where 100 million. kr to go directly to infrastructure, it is clear that this government is well on the road towards the broadband target for all in 2007.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12.ana.ud2623e1266	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12.ana.ud2623e1269	Broadband to the whole country has been an election vow from several of the government parties, and that is also the goal of the government, says the Council of State. Does the Council of State mean that with the amount now in place, the full broadband coverage target will be achieved in 2007? Is it possible to meet the promises made by several government parties on broadband to the whole country?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12.ana.ud2623e1276	What's very happy is to see the result of the 50 million. kr as we promised in the revised, that they reached as many as one third of the households that then stood without broadband. These are not our numbers, but they're the seekers' numbers they've supplied to Hoekkom. We've now allowed twice as much, i.e. One hundred million. kr. As of January, the allocation will be made. Then we want to do a new addition, and we use a consulting firm to do that job, so there's no doubt that numbers are objective. Let's take another round and see how far we've gone with the 100 million. kr. So I have said that I will, of course, along with my government colleagues, possibly come back in revision with a further promise, if necessary. But we have great faith that we will be able to build a lot of broadband, hopefully for everyone, during 2007.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12.ana.ud2623e1283	First of all, I have to say that it is gratifying that the whole country, at least most of them, seems to be able to get broadband, thanks to the market that has cared for this expansion in a very good way. We're all happy about that. A joint committee has also seen a very positive view of the proposal to grant $10 million. kr for the use of open standards and open source. The councils were in on it in their posts. Of course, the important thing is that the public takes the lead. What measures will the Council of State take across departments and agencies to make the public a precursor of standards other than the most common, namely Microsofts?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12.ana.ud2623e1290	We've done a lot of work here. What we did earlier in the fall was put down the Standards Council, which is going to give me its first recommendations around the turn of the year. That is, they're going to provide a list of standards that they recommend to me to make compulsory for the public sector, and some that should be recommended, as they see them. The standards I intend to send out on the listener to get a broad deal around this. I know there's a lot of demand, especially in Kommune-Noreg, where a person experiences the problem that the public systems don't communicate together, and they're asking us to. However, I think it is right to have a hearing about the first set of standards that we are recommended. Then we're going to decide what is mandatory, what is recommended, and then we're going to see if we need to focus on the state first, or whether it's so much goodwill and support in the entire KS area that the municipalities can also think about this. But we need to get that back and report it to Stortinget. Of course, it's also a natural part of the big message that we have this discussion beyond the spring of next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12.ana.ud2623e1297	I want to take the opportunity to ask for one more thing. MinSide was a tabloid project for state councillor Morten Andreas Meyer, and it has taken years and days before this project now appears to be launched. As far as I am aware, the Council of State will launch a first phase now quite soon. Will the Council of State elaborate a little on what MinSide should now contain, and what is the importance of this in relation to the Council of State itself, namely to increase the digital competence of the population?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12.ana.ud2623e1304	Fortunately, both the Right and the Government have a strong pressure on MiSide's work. Unfortunately, a business model was selected that could not be implemented. The market was simply not mature. It's always hard to predict for the future. I would say that my predecessors had an optimistic view of the future and the market that unfortunately did not turn out to be true. We had to liquidate it, but we're now in the process. In a very short time, we're going to launch MiSide. Of course, it'll be a minimum of initial services, but it'll increase pretty soon. We're going to have a set of transaction services, that is. one can exchange fixed, order health insurance cards, apply for tax cards, transfer message – the type of transaction services. Then we want register information, which is also important, so that the inhabitants get an insight into what kind of information is registered on one and is publicly available. Some municipalities are already ready and want to join you from the start. I very much hope that we can do that. And then we're kind of already in dialogue with those who're going to be in the next version. There's a 6 million. NOK to further development, so we have a record high promise of SEK 13 million. kr next year for the very long time to push new services into MiSide.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12.ana.ud2623e1311	No more words have been asked for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12.ana.ud2623e1314	Since the budget was submitted by the Government, I think there has been little focus on road and rail being of the budget's great winners. The level at national transport level is now finally being followed up. It's a victory for society, but it's just as much a victory for democracy. One has for all years adopted the national transport plan here in the house, without one having made budgetary decisions that have followed up the plan. The fact that I think I have been involved in making political decisions in the field of transport have not been taken seriously, and I even believe that it has helped to create political disdain. That's why it was important for the Government and the red-greens to deliver in the field of transportation, both to give badly needed traffic crowns around the country and to restore the credibility of our own planning tools. That's why I think it's nice that someone can read on the Right's website that they're commenting on the relationship statement under the heading: ‘Gigantic stomach space for government parties’. They also write: ‘The government’s ambition of investment is tragically low.’ These are statements signed by the representatives of Greece and Halleraker. They don't write 'historically low' because they don't know what to say, on the contrary. It's almost so that the Right People become a little involuntaryly comical in some of their statements about the movement effort of the Red-Green Government. This government is now following a national transport plan that is far more ambitious than the Right went in for when they were in government. I just want to remind you that the Right in Government couldn't even meet the old NTP, which was less ambitious than the NTP that you have now. And when one sees what the previous government actually did in the field of transportation, today's rhetoric from the Right becomes little credible. The government and the red-green in Stortinget have great ambitions for transportation. It shows both the Soria Moria Declaration and the National Transport Plan. Today’s debate also shows that the opposition has ambitions on behalf of society. But it must be allowed to ask: Where was it of the bet on transportation when Right, Christian People's Party and Left put in government with the Advance Party as a supporting party? Then it was those who had the majority. But when they had the power and influence, they didn't choose to increase the budget for transport, or, for that matter, not to use the majority they had. The government we now have has promised to invest in transportation, and we show through the budget that we keep what we promise in this area as well. This is the strongest investment on the road in 15 years, and the strongest investment on the railway in 25 years, which for my own county, Rogaland, will be noticed incredibly well. Finally, Rogaland and the Railway Agency will receive money for the construction of a new freight terminal on Ganddal, an investment that is extremely important in the context of finally building double tracks between Stavanger and Sandnes. On the double track, we're going to spend 270 million. And in addition, we're going to spend $30 million. kr to renew existing track installations. This government isn't just talking about what we should do, no, this government is actually doing what it says it should do. Today's a party day for Rogaland. The people of Rogaland should be pleased that the Progress Party does not have the power to implement its budget. There had not been much double tracks at home with them at the rudder. This effort would not have been possible if the government and the three red-green groups had not put transport so high on their priority list, which we have done, and which we are also going to do on the road, both in terms of road and in terms of track. The opposition in this room must be the only ones who have not realised that there has been a shift in road and rail investment compared to the previous government. When the Bondevik government presented its government budget for 2005, the NHO stated that they were disappointed that the Bondevik government did not resume the increase in road investment. When the Stoltenberg government laid out its first budget, the N.H.O. said they were pleased with the government's appropriations on the road and track, and the rest of the industry followed this up. The construction industry praised the government's efforts. The railway manager honoured the budget for transport. The Norwegian industry was happy, and the LO was pleased and thought the government followed up the plan in a good way. I am pleased to take up the next three years, where the red-green parts of the Stortinget are to be the guarantor that the bet we have now started is to be fulfilled in the further work.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12.ana.ud2623e1348	To begin with, I must say that this year it is nice to take part in the debate on the budgetary position of the Committee on Transport and Communications. The reason is that we politicians are ultimately to trust in relation to the promises of the national transport plan. Although we still have a lag behind the draft budget of the Bondevik government in 2005, a government that did not take the majority of the population seriously, it is also not impossible to target it within the four-year period. As the county representative from Buskerud, I would like to express my satisfaction with the wording behind it, that the Drammenspakket is not finished until the new Svelvikveg is in place. Many of us were amazed when the previous government went away from the agreements concluded between the state, the county and the municipality of Drammen. All the people in the 21 municipalities have waited patiently for completion, so that badly needed funds can benefit other regions. Here, too, we have to deliver. Nevertheless, the railway investments are the ones that make me the most of it. The railway has been a neglected chapter over the years. Trasés built for 100 years and even longer since, are little time to run new trains on. You can compare it to running Ferrari in a dry peacock on certain distances. Only when you get corrections on the curves, enough crossing tracks, double tracks or even new trasés can the effect of modern trains be eliminated. That's when trains really become a competitor of cars, when road and track go parallel – in fact even to air traffic, in a larger radius around Oslo, when one calculates the actual journey time. Both in my former committee and now talk about old transport promises. So I want to bring to the square one of the oldest, perhaps the oldest, Ringeriksbanen – or Bergensbanen's abbreviation, as it is also called. He was discussed and distributed 100 years ago, and the section was opened in 1909. If one sticks to the main objectives of the national transport plan even into the next planning period, this promise can be started, as a hundred-year lead to Bergensbanen. But I have a good tip for the council. A new proposal for trasé options has to be submitted. New railway lines should go there people cage. New sections of track should not enter tunnels where there is no need for racial protection. The Kroksund option is the second best. The use of wetlands and cultivated land can be minimised, cf. issued by the Railway Agency during the previous debate on trasé elections. The best thing is that one spends $1 billion less than if one sticks to the Åsa option, which is the line today. The krones can be used for other investments. It's a line to get funds for a good project. The Bergensbane is a good example of how the railway can be used to run freight as well. Seven trains in each direction every day provide at least 60000 fewer combinations of vehicles on rv. 7 years. When you build the Ringerix Path, the size can be increased. In fact, the train travelled back-to-back on the day, while the capacity stopped on the roof as the track is now. The Ringeriksbanen was also a promise when the tribal road was located over Lærdal in 1992 – so we are not politically at risk until he is built. In other words, this is a good national project, and in addition, the Ringerix region – as the only one in the Oslo area that does not have it – will have an extension of the rail network. At the end, I have to deal with an important issue for the Hallingsdal region. We've had years of time to get to Oslo, which has now been replaced by a bus. Many swappers get to shorten the weekend by having to take the train on Sunday. Otherwise, the option is to use a private car. A run-down and sometimes very poor rv. 7 does not provide comfort for a three-hour bus ride. Public purchases of train services must be made. One's talking about three million. kr. This will give a great deal to traffic safety and to the environment. People in the tourist industry have turned their thumbs down because the morning train Vägne has come and is still gone, so that one cannot market the supply. As it is now, is one with the first train from Hallingdal in Oslo at 1:00 p.m. 14.30, and it's not sustainable. Actually, the slope is both mindy and a little slow by itself, but it's going to be a limit. This was one of the measures left behind by the Bondevik government. Councillor Navarsete has the power to clean up. Negotiations with the NSB are in progress. The red-green government can, by small means, point to concrete measures in practice, for the district, for the environment and for road safety.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12.ana.ud2623e1371	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12.ana.ud2623e1374	It's fun to agree to adopt the transport budget this year. It is a historic road and rail investment, both in the districts and in the central districts. The budget is a big bet on the road, indeed all the states get delight in it. Traffic is a major challenge for Akershus. The number of people in and out of Oslo is increasing, and this is a major challenge both for road and for rail. To improve this, people in Akershus have been willing for many years to pay tolls to advance the necessary efforts on transportation. This has led to the realization of several projects. It is a pleasure that money is now being given to complete the double track from Asker to Lysaker. It means a lot to commuters. But we still have great challenges, and that's why both Oslo and Akershus have joined forces on an Oslopacket 3, which will eventually be treated here in Stortinget. There is cross-political unity in Oslo about this, while in Akershu there is only the Progress Party that does not support it. It involves toll collection for a long time in the future, and it shows that people have the will to participate in the challenges before transportation. But when we enter into such agreements, the state must also do with its part, something we cannot see that the previous government did in relation to Oslopak 2. One example of this is actually Ski Station, which is part of Oslopackakt 2. This was pushed on throughout the previous government's period. Therefore, it is a pleasure for me that it is now finally started at Ski Station. In the state budget, it's set at 40 million. kr for further planning, and not least for construction start in 2007 for Ski Station. In addition, a dual-track Ski-Kolbotn schedule should be initiated. The double track to Ski is an important bet, both for eastbound and southbound. It is important for Follo and Akershus, but also for Eastfold. Yes, this line also plays a role for the whole country, as it is also the gateway to Europe.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12.ana.ud2623e1385	Today we have heard one representative after another from the government parties praise this budget – how beautiful and fine it will be for the road network and the other transport in Norway. I want to take the Storting down to a small depth, to make what the budget means to a state like Telemark. As most people have come with it, in the summer, VG had an overview of the 100 worst county roads in Norway. Telemark took the first five places on the staging list. Of the 25 worst, 12 were in Telemark. This clearly demonstrates that high-risk road-trafficking in Telemark is a high-risk sport. The municipality of Telemark, based on the enormous delays in maintenance, went out and borrowed 30 million. kr to repair some of the worst sections. When we also know that the funds for investment on the national roads in Telemark have a framework of 96 million. SEK for 2007 versus 98 million. Last year, it says that one lies miles away from the goal of fairly good roads in the county. One is far from paying homage to this transport budget in a state like Telemark. When it is also known that more than half of this will once again finance the road to Kragerø, otherwise a road that the Stortinget has previously promised would be financed outside the framework of the county, it goes without saying that the budget to which the government has committed does not exactly feel like a big boost to the roads of Telemark. In 2005, Telemark was one of the countries with a negative development, which caused more damage and killed in traffic. How many more are going to risk losing their lives on the roads in our country? Unfortunately, 2006 also appears to be a year of many and serious accidents. This is one thing that engages all people who live and travel in the traffic of Telemark. In Bamble in Telemark, an action group is now in place to repair some of the most unfortunate crossings on E18 through the municipality as quickly as possible, while in the long term it is also trying to work to build a new E18 through the municipality. This is a work supported by both local politicians in the municipality, state policies and the Regional Council. On this route, the E18 is very dangerous to traffic, because there is a lot of traffic during the day, while there is also a lot of heavy traffic on the road. It is therefore with great disappointment that I note that in the context of the budget the government parties do not choose to support our remark in order to force the development of the dangerous crossings on this important route. In the case of the Kragerø national road ferry service, the Committee asked the Ministry to assess whether the Kragerø ferry would enter the national road ferry service this year. It is therefore with great disappointment that everyone who depends on and uses the ferry records that the Council of State now says she will not assess this until after the regional reform in 2010. When part of the Council of State’s argument is also based on traffic and traffic relations, it may be possible that a ferry service of more than 300000 passengers and 70000 cars per year should not be able to enter and become part of the national road ferry service. There may be reason to ask questions as to why ferry traffic is discriminated against in the manner provided by the Council of State and whether the Council of State is committed to maintaining the settlement in small coastal communities.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12.ana.ud2623e1408	I want to start with a couple of local issues that the government and I, of course, are concerned about. The first concerns a note that the fraction has entered into the adjustment, but on which the government parties are not present, which concerns the Lister package in West Agder, which the Stortinget, when it was adopted, was intended to be a complete package. But it's like there's smart people in the Road Service. Now they're starting to build the last piece of the Lister package from each side, and then they're missing some millions to get this into port. I understand the role of the opposition, but I still feel the need to say a few words about the role of the government parties here. So there has been a meeting with the Minister for Transport, who has been exceptionally positive about engaging in dialogue with local authorities to find a solution so that the Lister package is completed. I expect, of course, that local authorities also show the interest needed so that they can fully finance this way. The other thing I would like to say a little about is not really something that is in the Ministry of Transport, but it is still within the transport area. There's a road in Lindesnes that's very busy. The municipality says they want to build a new walking and cycling path. But it's the state that owns the land. Therefore, the municipality cannot borrow to build the bicycle path – it is a very dangerous area – because in the municipal law there are restrictions on what you should be able to borrow from the municipality. To that I would like to say that I of course assume that the government together finds a system so that this cycle path can be built, when there are only formalities that will stop it and not be completed. I expect a solution to that with joy. Most of the people in Norway know that we're getting richer and richer. Most people in Norway know that the pension fund is growing. The opposition and the media have the role of being critical of the position – I understand that too. But I think it's strange that there hasn't been any major reference to the historical grip this government is now doing to follow up the national transport plan. So this is the first time in history that we have a government that has shown that they are betting on transportation. It cannot be said that the opposition or the Progress Party did when they had the influence to participate in and decide the budgets in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12.ana.ud2623e1423	As a representative of Telemark, I cannot fail to mention that the county has a pressing need for new and better road surfaces. In this way, I am pleased with the increase in the budget for transport. It is a pity, however, that there is too little investment on the road. Because it's part of the history that it's still a lag of over 600 million. kr on road investments and DKK 1 billion on rail if NTP were to be met and if the counties were to have fulfilled their action plans. Projects may be pushed forward in time or out in the dark. For Telemark's part, I want to clarify the importance of now realizing the Eidanger Tunnel. Only then will the train become competitive, and I very much hope that the Government will provide green light for the continuation and rapid development of this tunnel. I can also sign as telemarking that large distances and scattered settlements make Norway a nation dependent on good transport solutions. An efficient infrastructure is essential for companies in the District of Norway to be competitive and to be able to cope. Road construction is both a good rural policy and a good industrial policy. Both the city and the country need good roads, and the time is overdue for the development of the tribal road network. Right will have a plan with a separate priority basis for road sections that should be upgraded to narrow four-field roads with a width of 16 metres. Among other things, the E18 is very topical, because large parts of the route between Oslo and Kristiansand are heavily traffic-loaded and exposed to accidents. And in particular, I want to mention the distance that goes through the Bamble municipality in Telemark. Until a general route standard is implemented, this route must be subject to the implementation of the required remedial measures. The modernisation of the public sector has stopped with the red-green government, unfortunately. For me, it is incomprehensible that the government has put its foot down for OPS projects, when one knows that this has been very successful and has given more way to less money. Then go to the air traffic and to the non-state airports. In general, these have not had a satisfactory government grant. As far as Geiteback and Skien are concerned, they are non-existent. The same applies to the aerodrome at Notodden. Operating aid has now been applied for from both the Ski and Notodden in Telemark, as well as from the airports at Stord and Lista. These airports fill all a need and generate traffic to state airports. It is therefore reasonable for the State to comply with the requests so that these airports are now included in the cross-subsidisation mechanism between Avinor airports.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12.ana.ud2623e1436	In the right old days, harelanders were called haremans, and they were then defined as a warrior people. Now it's not like we're in a war mood in Hadeland, but there's some impatience in both road and rail. Now I'm not going to take all the roads in Uppland County, but there is a need for new grips both on the E6 and on the E16. But that's rv. 4 and Rv. 35 I'll say a little bit about. Even if Rv. 4 has become good from Gjøvik to Gran, so the road remains, so the highway through Gran, Lunner and Oslo. And then we have rv. 35 through Jevnaker. It is in a deplorable constitution, and is probably one of the country's worst tribal roads. It has a daily traffic of well over 8 000 cars, of which approximately 600 heavy timber cars that go through the countryside every day. No wonder impatience is great. The fact that it takes so long to get a road — one already has a decision from 1993 — also gives a good opportunity for those who want to re-fight for trasé elections, and it is now re-exposed. Rv. 4 is a very accident-prone road. In the national transport plan, it was pointed out that: The 4th extension was completed through Raufoss, one would continue without delay on Rv. Four through Gran. It is important to support this construction even though you may now have to split up the parcel because there is a little concern about a tunnel choice in Lunner, which is the neighbouring municipality. Although it might take some time, it's very good if rv. 4 can be given its place and that you can continue the development from Raufoss and further on towards Oslo through Gran. In the case of railway, there are many aspects to it. It will probably help well in the climate and emissions of CO2. If the train offer was better, more people might also consider using trains instead of planes. A high-speed path between e.g. Oslo and Gjøvik wanted to take a train ride from Oslo to Gjøvik for half an hour's experience. So you could say it's not much. If it was ever to be a reality, you have to assume that there won't be time for a lot of stops if you're going to drive the train on that route in half an hour. Therefore, speed trains may not be the solution for the railways in Norway — at least not everywhere. Correcting and developing the existing network is the way to go. The Bergensbanen with a new trasé through Ringerike to Hønefoss will be very forward-looking. So I look forward to new and creative initiatives in relation to a new Ringeriksbahn as part of the upgrading of the Bergensbanen. So finally, Randsfjordferga must come as a Christmas present next year!
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12.ana.ud2623e1454	In the previous period, today’s government parties and the Progress Party agreed that Norwegian oil protection was too poor. As a coastal nation, Norway continues to need, in the opinion of the Progress Party, proper oil protection. Such preparedness should consist of heavy seagoing materials, in particular tugboats, but also vessels capable of laying out and handling oil lances. Furthermore, there should be a second line of coastal materials and smaller tugboats capable of demarcating any release into the coastal zone and saving a seafarist. Then there should also be a readiness to clean up oil spills from the coastal zone once oil spills have taken place. All of this was the Progress Party engaged in the previous period. It was also the government parties. The downturn is therefore great when we see today that the government parties do not intend to follow this up in the 2007 budget either. This includes, inter alia: Nor will all southern Norwegian coastal states be protected next year by a State oil protection reserve and that, in the event of a disaster, these coastal areas will be depleted by random private tugboats that may or may not be in the vicinity. The lack of funding also means that the updating and replacement of very old bilges and other equipment contained in the State deposits will not be feasible in 2007. Nor does the Government intend to grant money to the WWF beach area project, which means that the State itself has to train personnel for beach zone remediation, as the WWF training project may be at risk of closure. I think that's going to be a lot more expensive than giving support for a few hundred thousand dollars to the WWF. This is how oil protection costs money. But it's expensive to take insurance on their villa as well. However, most people do, because the consequences of a serious accident are so great. Should we experience that, for example, A major oil or chemical tanker gets off the coast of — let’s say — Trendelag, we don’t have any government oil protection resources to deploy until the oil hits land. The impact on the environment of such an application may be disastrous, with major losses of both birds, fish and marine mammals. Fisheries and the aquaculture industry in such an area will be paralyzed for decades. I believe that we cannot afford not to take this seriously. But that's not what the government chooses to do, and it's a shame. The party of progress looks forward to the day when the government starts to take active environmental work seriously. Let's hope that this doesn't happen until a bigger oil tank has lost, and we've got a devastating oil spill on Stord, on Hitra or on Vega. All of these are places that today are completely without state protection, despite professional advice, among other things. from the Coastal Works that this is irresponsible.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12.ana.ud2623e1467	I'll keep going where I dropped in my first post, and say a little bit about the railway operation. The effort in the year's budget must be taken into account. There is a wager that I have previously chosen to use the word "historic" over. We strengthen goods on the railway by 500 million. kr. We build terminals on Ganddal and Brattöra. We bet on Alnabru, not least, as the important hub it is for freight traffic. We build double tracks and crossing tracks. This is part of the government's commitment to getting goods across from road to road, and that's important. We're increasing rail investment by 50 pst. We increase the maintenance by 8 pst, which will not be at least marked on the winter maintenance and regularity. The representative tend to boast that the Bondevik II government started up a lot of projects. Yes, they did, both on the road and on the track, but with tiny starters. Projects cannot only be initialized; they must be executed. This government is committed to a coherent development of the projects that have been launched, and will have full pressure to get the full effect of the money we have inserted. With the previous government's framework, a white stick could have been shot at important stakes, such as Lysaker-Sandvika and the Alnabru terminal. In these days, the government negotiates a new purchase agreement with the NSB. The railway will then provide even better services. It will increase the collective part further. It will relieve the road network and deliver environmental benefits. Aviation has been a little bit of a theme today. Aviation is very important for busses and businesses throughout the country. Government purchases make it possible to maintain a fine mask of collective supply in aviation throughout the country. The aerodromes under Avinor form an integrated and coherent network. We have a joint charging policy and cross-subsidisation of business-economy airports. The progress party will remove the cross-subsidies. This will make the framework conditions for regional airports poor and regional air traffic uncertain. In the debate on the right, there is a call for proposals for non-governmental airports. I would like to remind you that the Government of Bondevik II rejected an application from these airports for additional credits as late as 2005. The government, on a line with the previous government, will continue to give priority to state airports. Today, we're squeezing from the left to make too little for the cities and from the Progress Party to make too little for the districts. I think it must mean that we have the necessary balance in the field of social policy. We are investing in public transport in and around the big cities to solve queues and environmental problems. There is room for effort on the road in those parts of the country where collective provision will never be a real alternative. The ferries shall be more reasonable, as an important part of the national road network, and we shall have air traffic as an important collective service that binds the whole country together.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12.ana.ud2623e1484	Transport is an important policy instrument when it comes to using the whole country, both in relation to the busnet structure and not least in relation to local business development. In many areas, we have come a long way to develop the road network, to invest in the railways and to facilitate public transport. What is probably the main challenge today is the poor road standard in many parts of the country — in other words, lack of promises to improve existing road surfaces. Just in this area, I can't help noticing my own state, Telemark, a state that the committee members and the state council know well. It can be shown that Telemark has come all the way to the rear. I'm glad that Telemark is now getting an essential part of the asphalting program for next year. It'll help, but it's unfortunately a long way to reach a satisfactory level. There should not be much imagination to understand that the population and business are frustrated when conditions are as they are today. In addition, a worn and uneven road surface is directly road-hazardous and life-threatening. I am pleased that the red-green government that the first government has now committed itself to a level of promise similar to that previously agreed by the Stortinget in the national transport plan. Politics is about prioritizing. It is good rural policy, it is good industrial policy, and it is good health policy to focus more on improving infrastructure. Telemark is a national centre of gravity for industrial production, value creation and renewal and accounts for a much larger proportion of the country's export income than the population. That is why I am very pleased today that the next year will start with the recovery of Farleia Brevikström. This will mean significant savings in freight costs for export industries in Grenland. As a business politician, I'm busy with the goal of creating values, values to be used in the next round for good welfare for everyone. If Telemark and the industry in the county are to succeed in their ambitions to continue and strengthen innovation and innovation potential in favour of Norway as an industrial nation, Telemark depends entirely on getting a greater share of the means of transport than today’s distribution shows. Progress and road safety are important. The main road network, like E134, E18 and Rv. 36, has major deficiencies in this area. At the same time, it is gratifying that, through the Soria Moria Declaration, the Government also states that more offensive action should be taken on the secondary and primary highway networks. Finally, let me express my joy at the fact that the planning tools for the Porsgrön rail track – the Farriseide in Larvik are now finally being triggered. With a completed plan, it is now much closer to the realization of the first spatique for the recovery of this route.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12.ana.ud2623e1500	Some words about the town track in Bergen. It's mentioned in the setting. The progress party will again point out that the urban railway project in Bergen is an economically risky experiment. The whole risk lies with the motorists in Bergen, who pay through tolls. We think it is unreasonable that the municipality of Bergen has been given implementing responsibility without having professional competence in the operation of the tracks. That is why we want state supervision of the project along the way. We would also point out that the urban railway project in the Bergen programme still appears to be completely uncoordinated with the Railway Agency and the NSB in the region. It's both weird and unwise. The railway system has recently presented its core network investigation, which, in our opinion, underpins the fact that such coordination would be transport policy and transport economically correct, important and possible. We are therefore promoting proposals for such coordination. Some words about Hardangerbrua. The Party has noted the details of the design and start-up of the Hardanger Brua supply routes. We have also recorded that there are some unresolved issues related to regulatory plans, to traffic forecasts and to the development of ferry traffic from May 2006, when the advance collection of tolls was introduced. We have noticed that the Swedish Road Administration has used quite strange measurement techniques to measure driving time. We noticed that the professional views on the ferry traffic after the bridge were built, from the ferry operator in the area, HSD Sea, did not come up when the matter was dealt with. We want additional information about Hardangerbrua. We are still in favour of the bridge, but we in the Progress Party are in favour of a thorough, complete and sound basis for the resolution. So finally some words about the height of the Haukeli tunnels, E134, the height improvement project that was dealt with in the Stortinget in 2005, and that is still not finished. It is in itself more than strange – the term is probably closer to ‘candals’ than ‘wonderful’. The price tag has now varied for a while between 200 million. NOK 350 and SEK 350 million. kr. It is quite rare that we are now going to send it on a new round of tenders, when we can see that when we put extra work into the invitation to tender, it is more expensive than we originally thought it would be. For this reason, the Progress Party wishes to submit its own case on this height improvement project over Haukeli. It is important that the project is gradually put in place, but it is also important to clarify what has actually happened along the way and that has ensured that this project has been unnecessarily exposed. That disadvantage is the business that carries.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12.ana.ud2623e1513	I am in the ranks of those who express satisfaction that the planning framework of the national transport plan is being reached in 2007. I am particularly pleased with the railway operation and see this as the beginning of the railway renaissance in Norway. The Bondevik II government left a significant investment lag. I understand the formidable problem that it is to take it lost again. The government is now placing heavy emphasis on goods, and in particular on two important railway projects: Lysaker-Sandvika and Stavanger-Sandnes. Thus, other and perhaps equally important projects have had to give priority to this round. The west fold path, which without comparison is the route that has the greatest growth potential, is one of them. According to the transport plan, the Barkåker-Tønsberg route, which is almost ready for construction, was to start as early as 2006. It will not happen in 2007. I wish it were different, but of course I am glad that we have come so far that in 2007 sufficient funding is provided for basic work on updating existing plans, so that the distance is ready for construction around the turn of the year 2007/2008. I am also pleased that the extension order on the Vestfold track has now been confirmed, and I think there is a commitment in this. The community has now lost 25 million. kr only in interest expenses over the 10 years since the end of the Barkåker-Tønsberg plans. And for every year that goes, before the investment already made is remunerated, society is losing an estimated 3.5 million. kr. It's important that we now try to see the railway effort in a slightly larger context. There are obvious views of a time link between Gardermoen and the airports on both sides of Oslofjorden, often combined with a transversal tunnel link under Oslofjorden, for example between Horten and Moss. It is without doubt clear that such a transport triangle would trigger economic and regional development which would, first of all, ease the pressures in the metropolitan area, and which would, in the latter case, support a completely necessary regional development on both sides of the Oslofjorden. I will finally show that the transport plan requires unconventional funding if we are to be able to implement the planned road and rail investments by 2009 and by 2015. While we have long since introduced forms of project financing in the road sector, we are lagging behind in the railway sector. Now, of course, we can say that project financing is unnecessary on the day we've dealt with ordinary investment funds, but it's a long way to go. If we're going to have a coherent railway development here in the country, it's necessary to think untraditionally. With my knowledge of the ministry in the Ministry of Finance, I would say that there is no prominent feature there in the farm.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12.ana.ud2623e1530	Year after year, the number of road fatalities on Norwegian roads has declined, but then there has not been any decline in the South. From 1986 to 1995, 244 were killed on the road in the Agder counties. In the period 1996–2005, 260 people were killed, i.e. 16 more than 10 years ago. The most dangerous road, according to the Vegvesen statistics, is a high-traffic two-field road between Oslo and Stavanger, which is also so narrow in some places that one cannot even paint a mid-strip, because there is no space. The road authorities' district manager Kirsten Lindeberg says that the road standard is not good enough, there are many meeting accidents and excursions that dominate the picture. She also shows that a new E18 Grimstad–Kristiansand will help considerably. It must be interpreted as better roads save lives. So why hasn't Southland been given the kind of expansion that has already saved so many lives in the country? Traffic forecasts are theoretical, they're artificial, and sometimes they're completely incorrect. The real growth of traffic is greater than the national transport plan operates and the share of heavy goods transport is as high as every five vehicles through Agder. NTP uses every 10 vehicles as its norm. For 23 years, I've been calculating weight and balance on planes. Never have I sent a plane into the air with forecasts and estimated numbers, only with the last true and real numbers on the loading papers. This is because security has first priority – above everything else. So why is the government ignoring security on the way? Is a life in the air worth more than a life on the road? The result is that sections that should have had four fields are built with two fields because road planners are not allowed to use the real numbers that show that heavy traffic on, for example. E18 in East Agder has increased by almost 14 pst. annual since 1998. E18/E39 between Oslo and Stavanger is a route of national importance. We can't live with the fact that theoretical models in NTP cost people's lives and health. In November alone, 29 people died in traffic in Norway. We cannot therefore live on the fact that we continue to build a two-field road on the high-traffic main road network, while the government grants funds for less than one mile more with middle parts. Building tribal roads such as E39 with a width of seven metres is unnecessary, it is unprofitable and unprofitable. See, for example: on a bridge over the Fedafjord. It will stand as a monument to inadequacy and lack of foresight in Norwegian highway development. Road development according to real traffic growth and road standards saves lives and costs. A conversion must take place in Norway, when we go in 2006 with a surplus of NOK 350 billion. The money and the capacity for construction is there. The will is missing.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12.ana.ud2623e1545	The Transport Budget is a happy message to many parts of the country, including my own municipality of origin, Drammen. The Soria Moria declaration has high ambitions, and in the 2007 budget the majority delivers as promised. Once again, the national transport plan has become a reliable document. The budget is a historic uplift for the railway, and as a long-time commuter between Drammen and Oslo I know to appreciate it. The environment is an obvious winner. As the Fly train moves from Asker to Drammen from 2008 after all the sunmarks, it gets even better. Nevertheless, I would like to talk about the road. Road is often produced as the opposite to the environment, but in Drammen it is the other way around. From an old age, Drammen has been a traffic hub in the East, with main road links to all parts of the country. But the development of car traffic was becoming the course of the city. Road package Drammen is an agreement between the State and the municipality from 1991, confirmed by Stortinget in 1993. Until 2005, DKK 2.5 billion was to be invested in doubled capacity on E18, E134 outside the urban core, centre ring for reduced traffic in central urban areas, upgrading the urban streets, pedestrian and cycle road networks and new road to Svelvik in Westfold. It didn't work that way. Poor cost estimates put off deferral, exceedances of up to 100 p.m. on some links, new treatments and municipal deforestation. What was to provide the basis for an environmentally friendly urban growth with housing retention in central areas, recreational areas along the river and improved air quality, became a true nightmare during periods. The agreement had to be renegotiated. The final account came close to NOK 5 billion. The date of completion was postponed until 2008. Neither has the progress that has been made. We were losing faith in national transport, but then things began to happen. Parts of the center ring were completed and opened the city. From being a ‘heavy’ on the E18 and Norway’s most polluted city, we received the Urban Environment Prize for 2003, under the slogan ‘the young person who became a swan’. Investments in the urban environment were made, investments in urban areas and investments in urban areas attracted investments both from local authorities and private investors. The road service received the price of Vakre Wegre, and the city was completely changed. In the last month, the four-field motorway bridge opened. The project will be completed next year. Then there is also money set aside to remove the last bottleneck down to Vestfold. However, the most important thing for the city is what happened on 1 November of this year, the opening of the second last part of the centre ring, away from the new residential areas along the river, under the railway. Equally important is the fact that in the budget for the next year, in line with the assumptions, money has been set aside for the final stage of the ring – a new bridge over the river, which connects the centre ring. The national transport plan has again become a document to be trusted. Last stage of Roadpack Drammen, rv. 319 to Svelvik, has been a long time to worry locally. The last time mentioned was in NTP 2002–2011, with any start by 2006. In NTP 2006-2015 it was not mentioned. But this majority's commitment to commerce gives new hope for the finalisation of the Roadpack Drammen, including a new road to Svelvik.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12.ana.ud2623e1566	This government has raised trade by DKK 2.5 billion compared to the last draft budget of the Bondevik II Government. In 2007, we reach the level of national transport plan for both road and rail for the first time. One would hope and believe that this could also create the acceptance of the bourgeois parties. They are now satisfied at about the same level in 2007 as we, after having previously been far below. One might say that we have got them on the rails and pulled them up from the ditch. In Buskerud, we are now beginning to see, as the representative Lise Christoffersen also says, the end of the Drama Package. We're happy to do that on behalf of the rest of Buskerud. It allows us to start prioritizing other things. In Buskerud, budgetary efforts provide opportunities in 2007 and in the years to come to improve road networks, a road network with fewer gaps and increased safety. We also have bigger investments. Among other things, we have to do something about the maintenance in 2007, and we're also betting on the railway. This applies, inter alia, to: 850 million. kr and full speed in the west corridor towards the Drammen, and we are going to start a new double track on the Westfold Railway in 2008, and Bergensbanen will be on the agenda. The last time we had a Minister of Transport from Sogn and Fjordane, there was a horse trade. There's been a lot of horse-trafficking between halls and socks. And to say it like this: If the horse trade had happened a hundred years ago and been handled the same way as the trade that happened the previous time, the knife would not have been loosed in the slope sleigh, the knife would probably have been up for the longest. What we're talking about is the Ringerix Railway, and we're talking about giving up in exchange. 7 as a route through Hallingdal. The Ringeriksbanen was a good idea and a good project, and it hasn't gotten any worse. Bergensbanen and Rv. 7 is heavily charged. Now we heard the representative Sigrun Eng tell us that on Bergensbanen there are 60,000 trailer loads a year, on rails. It means mass for the environment, it means increased road safety, and of course it says a lot about less wear on the road. Rv. 7 is in a terrible constitution – or rv. 8 as Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg calls it. He was in Gol last week and was shocked by the road standard. I expect the Council of State of Navarsete not only uses the Valdres side, but that it happens that she takes a walk through Hallingdal. Then she probably experiences the same thing as Prime Minister Stoltenberg, so we'll consider it in the next round.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12.ana.ud2623e1577	The government's 2007 draft budget under the Ministry of Transport is historically good, and there is good reason to point out that the Government's draft budget represents an offensive and long-term commitment to the road network. The railway effort also represents a historic boost, as the Council of State itself has explained. The signals that in the years to come, the objectives of the national transport plan will continue while the delays are being covered are very positive. The two inland states, Hedmark and Uppland, have 16 pst. of the road network, while appropriations in recent years have been around 4 pst. of the road budget. In this perspective, it's worth noting that the border crossing rv. 2/61 by Morocco in Eidskog is the second most trafficked in the country, and the one that increases most. In October alone, preliminary figures show that the increase was 30 pst. Heavy traffic figures show even greater growth, not as strange as Sweden exports more than SEK 77 billion to Norway each year. In addition, border trade is increasing, and the number of Norwegian guest houses in Sweden is reaching new heights. The forecasts show that the increase will continue. Rv. 2 is the main axis of the Oslo-Karlstad-Stockholm growth corridor, and together with the Kongsvingerbahn it is a very important foundation for the development of business and residence on both sides of the border. In the two national states mentioned above, regional businesses, regional authorities and the population have facilitated several measures that can contribute to the implementation and acceleration of road projects and solutions in freight and rail traffic. Therefore, there are also high expectations of the contribution of state authorities and, in particular, their capacity for implementation, as set out in the National Transport Plan. The development of Rv. 2 is now well under way, and implementation of narrow four-field roads so far seems to be an effective project. 22 years of planning is crowned with a new and important path. However, I would like to stress in this context that it is important to provide a framework for the continuation of this project throughout the route, so that this work can be carried out continuously. Something else would be putting the district in a very difficult squeeze, and it would seem negative for the whole of the East. It is positive that wide extensions are tested, such as: on rv. 3 through the Østerdalen. I hope that such attempts can be expanded, and a good and socially correct project in that way would be rv. 21, a often forgotten, but much used highway.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12.ana.ud2623e1590	The government's Northern Territory Strategy gives us in the north an action room we've never had before. That is why I want to bring forward the northern regions also in the budget debate on transport – and on rail investment in the northern regions. It's not about trains at sea. It's about the red-green government being the first to put on the paper betting on the railway in Finnmark, and seriously will explore the possibilities of connecting the churches to the Russian railway network. It's no small matter. No one has more visions and bets on his railway than the Russians. This government wants something about the railways – both nationally, where we increase the effort by one billion per. years, at least, in the years ahead, and in the northern regions. Narvik is perhaps the most exciting place for railway development in Norway right now. They set out in Narvik to develop the city into an international railway port, a shipping site for large quantities of goods between North America and Russia. Yes, the visions are also about linking the Asian continent, both Siberia and Northwest China, to America via Narvik. The first freight trains are under planning. This is a bet that can open up opportunities for larger areas in North Norway and Northern Italy – also in Troms. Maybe it's going to be cost-effective to build the Troms Railway, for which we in Troms have fought for a year. Infrastructure is incredibly important, including in Jonas Gahr Støre's North Region Strategy. Infrastructure – roads, railways, ferries – is seen as imperative to bet on the north and to meet the challenges of sovereignty, fishing rights, energy and petroleum, environment, climate and nature protection – on Svalbard, the Barents Sea, beyond Troms and Lofoten. There will be no sustainable development without investing in transport — road, rail and maritime transport, along the Norwegian coast. This is also important because the Government of the Northern Region Strategy links infrastructure both to the development of business and to the preservation of the environment. Both the oil transport and the petroleum activities to be carried out require the world’s best preparedness. We will protect the vulnerable environment in the north, and we will create jobs in Troms, Nordland and Finnmark. High technology is being put on screen on the Barents Sea. I would like to bring to the attention of the publisher of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology – MIT-Fablab Norway – in my own municipality of origin. This government has also doubled government efforts to build broadband networks in the districts. It is invaluable to create knowledge-based jobs in District Norway. On the road side, this government makes a promise. In addition to the period, we can expect the investment appropriations to be DKK 1 billion above the level of Bondevik II. We're on the move, we're on the move, we're on the move, we're on the move, we're on the move, we're on the move, we're on the move, we're on the move, we're on the move, We've done a lot of work, but Rome wasn't built in one day either.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12.ana.ud2623e1605	I think this has been a very nice debate. It once again underlines that transport engages, because it concerns us all, no matter where we live in our long-range country. There has been a clarifying debate as well. The debate has revealed that there is one party that stands alone with all of its nice billions, and then there are some fine adjustments and some pennies with the others on the bourgeois side. But I want to clarify something that I think has crept in like a little misunderstanding. It is not that tolls come instead of national road allowances, and these have fallen when the tolls have gone up. It's not like that, they're going to add up. The purpose of tolls is to increase roads faster than we would otherwise have done. The Workers' Party supports the use of tolls, but only where there is local support in the local authorities of the municipalities concerned to collect money to speed up road development. Tolls shall also contribute to and finance the development of the E6 accident-affected route. As I mentioned in my main post, it is absolutely necessary to start repairing the E6. I am very pleased that the means of planning E6 are now being given priority over the Gardermoen–Colomoen and Lillehammer–Otta section, and I am pleased to see that the section is split up, so that, in the first place, a proposition can be promoted regarding the Gardermoen–Dal section and the Creatorud–Colomoen section. Then I have to be allowed to get into rv. Two more times. I just have to point out that the matter has come a long way, and one is about to realize the toll station. Progress must be continued and continued in the light of the approved submitted and adopted plans for the narrow four-field Klöfta-Kongswinger motorway, which is actually planned by the Ministry of the Environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12.ana.ud2623e1616	The politician who has the heart of the whole country, the politician who is putting his money on transportation. That's why we also have a popular Minister of Transport, and we in the Center Party are proud of the job she's doing. Then I understand that the representative Sandberg believes that one must be able to go in and then split into this party by pointing out that it is also being put on the railway. For the railway there can be no one in the centre party who has the sense of it, says Sandberg. Sandberg is completely wrong. Railways are invaluable, including for District Norway, both for passenger transport and not least for freight transport. We have seen enough trucks slipping across mountain crossings in this country to understand why a real rail lift is important for the whole country, not least for freight, and then it is to bet on the development of the railway here in the Oslo region, four tracks Asker-Oslo, four tracks Ski-Oslo, absolutely crucial to get a railway network that has the capacity and opportunities to cover just the nationwide functions. The Minister for Transport referred to the Alnabru terminal. It's not for Oslo, it's for the country simply. So railway bets are important. It is important for public transport in the Oslo region, but it is also an important investment object for this country to go and go better. Then I want to stop a little bit at Oslopackakt 3, which is of invaluable importance to the Oslo region. There is reason to congratulate the politicians in Oslo and Akershus who, on such a cross-political basis, have managed to join together a collective package over 20 years with a total of SEK 52 billion inside, mainly tolls, but also some national transport plans. The fact that one has managed to exceed the barriers between the parties and get a comprehensive presentation of such an enormous effort, yes, the Oslo politicians and the Akershus politicians should be very grateful for that. I know that the Minister of Transport shares my view of it, and that the Minister of Transport will do everything she can to get this package for the Stortinget as soon as possible – it's working on it now. Then it is important to also put in place the law that is needed to allow the use of tolls for collective action. We simply need to be able to see tolling as an effort both to strengthen road development in this region and not least to get a much more offensive collective coverage in the capital region. It is absolutely essential that this region not be closed again. It's already almost impossible for buses in Oslo. If we do not get a massive collective effort in this city, which the Oslo and Akershus politicians have agreed on, and which the national politicians ask us to do, then we must get help from an active Ministry of Transport, and I look forward to getting the matter before the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12.ana.ud2623e1623	There are increasing numbers in this country who do not understand, and also accept, that it is not reasonable to invest more in infrastructure, especially in the road sector. The road sector has for a long time been treated in a vote. This applies to both initial investment and maintenance. The reduction in maintenance only was calculated by the State Road Administration at NOK 43 billion. The government has increased the budget for road investment by DKK 1.2 billion. No matter how much this increase in the road budget is historical, according to the representative, Klungland, it is unfortunately not enough, in the opinion of the Progress Party. It will still take 50 years for us to have a satisfactory tribal road network. The standard on our roads is too bad. Four-field roads should be built between all parts of the country. The poor road standard means that we get a lot of accidents between traffic. With midrange separators, the number of accidents would be significantly reduced. Today, all traffic accidents cost the State approx. 25 billion a year. Better roads provide evidence of fewer accidents. More and more economists still agree with the Progress Party that the country's economy tolerates greater investment in real values. Machine contractors have a spare capacity of NOK 6-7 billion. This amount corresponds to the wishfulfilment of the alternative budget of the Progress Party. In West Agder is the E39 tribal road between Oslo and Stavanger. Large parts of this road are of poor standard. The OPS project Lister Package consisted of many projects. One of these was a new E39 trasé at 14 km between Feda and Handeland. When this was opened in August, it was already said in the pedigree investigation, as the State Road Administration itself was behind, that the road at the opening was below the standard that a tribal road should have. It is worrying that, today, stuttering sections are completed which do not have a minimum equipment with centre-sections. The intention of the Lister package on a housing and labour market between the six municipalities was that all elements of the road package should be completed during 2009. Now there's 121 million left over. kr for the entire Lister package to be fully financed. The bourgeois parties have pointed out in their comments the importance of the Government finding a solution for full funding. All the Lister municipalities are now waiting for the red-green government to grant the remaining 121 million. kr without sending the bill to the municipal population in the form of an extended toll period.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12.ana.ud2623e1648	As a member of the Business Committee, I have met a host of business managers and employees who have as one of their highest priority demands for us politicians that we have to deal with the infrastructure, that is. achieve a proper standard lifting of the road network, improve standards on the network and develop broadband in all parts of the country. There is no reason to be surprised by this message or – to say – the demand. Since I was rapporteur in a district municipality quite a short time ago, I am very well aware of this and have been involved in promoting such a demand. Now that the Government is promoting a draft budget that fills the framework of the national transport plan, I think it is very positive. It's a transport policy leap that hasn't happened before. And when there's no more cheer over it, I think it might be because of the gravity of the situation, and you don't fully believe that the Storting really wants to take this power cap, until it materializes more concretely. The further challenges are now beginning to resume as of next year. Good projects are in line. In recent years, for example, there have been in my home country, there has been joyful coordination of projects and a common priority has been given to them. For this region, it is very positive, and I noticed that there is now an active effort to clarify plans for the remediation of rv. 714 from Hurricane and out to Hitra and Freyea. The economy, the inhabitants, the municipalities and the county are very impatient. It is transported here approx. half of the export values of the South Trøndelag on a totally unfathomable path. Traffic is constantly being stopped by outbounds and accidents. The bombing company is established, and the county council is entering heavily with the municipalities. The municipalities of the region which are not directly affected are also actively working to realise this project as soon as possible. An equivalent project is established on Fosen. Once the companies are established and they come to the Stortinget, they must receive positive treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12.ana.ud2623e1661	Christmas is the time of praise. We have noticed that when we've been sitting here today and heard variations on the theme: we've delivered, and we keep what we've promised. That's why it was with excitement that I looked forward to the contribution from the Vestfold representative Steinar Gullvåg. The road issues in Westfold have been clarified. They were made by the previous government. The expansion is well under way, and more is coming. What's left for the west folds is the railway. After an 11-year-old election campaign in Westfold, with great promises of many, many billions to the Westfold course during this period, the red-greens in Westfold have entered into a budgetary darkness, or a budgetary drought – whatever you want. Then it is a bit strange to hear the representative Gullvåg say that he is very pleased with the railway investment in this budget. It can't be about the Westfold Railway. His straw – and what he lands on – is that it is now said in a note that the double track between Tønsberg and Barkåker is a priority. Yes, it may seem that the Council of State accepts to go against its own in the state and build up the double track rather than to go further on what both the majority of the Committee and the Council of State even in a post earlier today call a coherent and rational development of the network. For me, which is westfolding and localized, it would mean continuing from Sande and southward. Then it is also difficult to fully enjoy a comment saying that you should use the project pot of about 80 million. kr to this double track. I think this is the case in this case, as in all other cases, that comments in settings do not help anything. It is only when money is delivered over budgets that something helps. After being one of the champions of the so-called project funding, the representative Gullvåg obviously did not give up on this. He complains about the Ministry of Finance bureaucrats and others and says that now a so-called non-conventional funding will bring the projects forward. I think we should only note that project financing is what Jens Stoltenberg described in the Questionnaire earlier this autumn. It's that a project is financed. Yeah, that's it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12.ana.ud2623e1674	Transport and good logistics are important for industrial development in the country in general, but in the districts and towards the major ports in particular. It faces major and costly challenges in transport, which will require creativity and innovation. Public Private Cooperation — OPS — has been used for decades as a form of organisation for the development and operation of the road sector in other countries. Experience so far suggests that there are large savings, giving society direct economic benefits. By enabling the contractor to plan better and determine progress through the OPS model, to achieve efficiency, faster deployment and lower costs. OPS is particularly suitable for the organisation of sections where there are significant socio-economic gains to be gained from rapid implementation. E136 from Ålesund to Uppland border is clearly such a stretch. Very much of the exports from More and Romesdal are on the E136, and the road through the Rome valley is a major obstacle to this type of transport. The construction of Tresfjordbrua will short into 12.3 km on the difficult and very accident-prone tribal road around Tresfjorden. At least the same importance is attached to the long-mentioned route, which goes straight through the residential area of Lerstad and into Ålesund. Lerstadwegen is an accident-prone bottleneck with extremely heavy transportation into Ålesund centre and one of the country's most trafficked ports. The size decided that three pilot projects should be carried out according to a OPS model to test whether the model provides an efficiency gain. The test projects that are now completed are the track Klett-Bördshaug on E39 and the section Lwigal-Fleckfjord, also on E39. Both projects became a success story. With a background of up to 40 pst. faster road construction than traditionally, I see no reason not to continue with any more OPS projects. In any case, it is important that the notified evaluation is carried out rapidly. In principle, there should be nothing in the way of starting new projects while evaluating the first. As things stand today, half of Lerstadwegen into Ålesund will be finished in 2015. Tresfjordbrua will hardly come until well after the year 2020. Therefore, the right launched the OPS model for the Ålesund-Upland line in the 2005 election campaign. The media strongly opposed the proposal of the representative of the Central Party, Eli Sollied Överaas. She and the Zenterpartie promised a better solution – the much-mentioned project funding. I won't say more about it. I would like to ask the government to reconsider the use of the OPS model in order to speed up the completion of E136 between Ålesund and Upland border.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12.ana.ud2623e1691	Although government parties try to give the impression that transport is the year’s budget win, Stortinget knows that this draft budget is no more than most agreed on in the treatment of the national transport plan. Even it's too small when you know that the problems are in line, and that these cannot be solved if you're going to continue with the appropriations at this level. Only for the main road network alone do we need NOK 230 billion to achieve a satisfactory standard, which will take more than 50 years with the level of ambition that the Government has set and is obviously so satisfied with. In my own county, Telemark, we have unusually bad roads, which I'm sure the Council of State is familiar with. In particular, there is a challenge with the European road through Bamble. This is a stretch of our road network that shows clearly negative developments, with large growth in traffic and unfortunately a growth in the number of accidents. This road is also a school road, which concerns many students and parents. There is no doubt that if the Council of State does not find money for road safety measures for this route within a short time, the consequences will be the loss of human life, perhaps young lives. Here the Council of State should know its visitation time, for there is no time to wait for rollouts or other political insidiousness. At the same time, I would like to point to a paradox in the government's policy, namely the lack of coherence between transport policy and district policy. Large sums are used to try to maintain housing in the districts. What unfortunately seems to be forgotten by the Government is that no matter where you live, you depend on good trajectories, and in the districts it's roadways. If we are to maintain housing in the districts, we must have a food supply, and a business life needs good roads to the central markets in order to be competitive. Telemark states have been down-prioritized by Stortinget for far too many years. This has resulted in the fact that we may have Norway’s worst roads, and among them may be the roads in western Telemark among the worst. In the last report of Telemarks Research on regional economic development in Norway, the West-Telemark region has reached a 70th place out of the 83 regions with which the report operates. This is not only caused by bad roads, but at a time when competition is hard, it is not particularly tempting to start business in a region where heavy additional costs are incurred due to poor roads, whether because of unnecessary long transport time or heavy wear on means of transport. As long as the government is not willing to bet more than this to correct the huge decay on our roads, you can talk about district bet, but not with much credibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12.ana.ud2623e1722	Growth and development in the whole country depends on communication and transport. Right-wing priorities transport in its alternative budget and shows that we are investing for the future. When everyone is concerned about increasing the focus in this area, there would be little reason to reduce the freedom of action to find the right solutions. The fact that the Government has chosen to scrape project funding and not to invest in OPS solutions will hamper the development of the infrastructure. Inland counties, Hedmark and Uppland are transit boxes for transportation to and from several parts of the country. The proportion of these counties receiving from means of transport is too low. The infrastructure through these counties is also central to other parts of the country. Rv. 3 through the Østerdalen suffers from this. The center party promised 100 million. kr per. years, and this was almost presented as a guarantee during the campaign. But Rv. 3 is not a priority. This is, along with rv. 20, the main transport year from central Norway to eastern Norway and further downwards to Europe. The load is huge. Opening up this to be an OPS project, as the Right and an overall opposition wishes, would give an important signal to communities and businesses in Hedmark and Middle Norway. They could have a hope of influencing their own situation. Lottorekka 2–4–6–16 has counted domestically. Extension is under way on Rv. 2, and it is very important for the whole of South Hedmark that the development can continue without any stop. The uncertainty about this is now largely due to the conflict over trasé elections in the Odalen. This is a battle that has been going on for a generation and inhibited the entire district. It has been decided by two environmental protection ministers in the past, and there should be no reason to indulge further. It is an entire region that is hampered in its development if this is now delayed. The Prime Minister promised this summer that a decision would be taken in August. Now we write December, and the concern is to touch and feel. It does not mean that, as the Council of Ministers of Navarsete said in a line-up with the representative Halleraker, we need to clarify this as soon as possible. I have noted that several representatives from the position have been concerned about rv. 2 and its importance, but I can say it quite clearly: why does the Prime Minister not keep his promise? Why does the Government not cut through and determine that the road should go where it is destined to go? The Kongswinger train connection is also much worse than the train connection to other major regional centres. Therefore, competitive outsourcing should be attempted on this path, as the Right and the Opposition will. The lack of good train connections makes it essential to get a good road. The Forget Valley region needs and must receive the vitamin injection a continuous expansion of rv. 2 means.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12.ana.ud2623e1737	Let me start by saying that I am happy that our country is in an economic situation that means that we can have an increase in the budgets, and that in turn it benefits the transport and infrastructure. I noticed that the City Ship Tunnel will be further investigated, and the questions that many ask are: When are there enough investigations? When are we going to take action? We also noted the note from a minority who are considering City Ship Tunnel as a OPS project. We hope that the Council of State will take note of the wish to have it evaluated. The reason why I take the floor is that I want to say a little bit about the so-called Freifjord Tunnel. It's part of a tribal path. It's the driveway to Kristiansund. Today, gunnering is a matter in More and Romesdal county. My question to the Council of State goes to the majority point in the committee position where they ask the Ministry to assess whether work can start in 2007. This is the same thing as it has been said in the localities – now a light is in the tunnel, now the ministry is showing its willingness to find a solution, and there is a clear signal from the ministry to find a solution in the coming years. It is important that the Department give a clear signal on this. As I said, the county council in More and Romesdal deals with an opinion today and then underlines the importance of getting something done about this. There is a tunnel without lighting and without roof plates, and sea water entering the tunnel. It's totally unacceptable with another postponement. It is also said that if a guarantee from the government and a deposit of state appropriations and full funding is confirmed, the state will assess in a separate case the shooting of the Freifjord Tunnel. I also show that it is set at 175 million. kr for upgrading tunnels. Half go to Ålesundstunnelen. Both Ålesundstunnelen and Freifjordtunnelen have first priority from the Vegdirketoratet. So my question to the Council of State is, and I hope to get a clear signal today: Is what is in the comment from the majority of the population, a clear signal that the work in the Freifjord tunnel will start in 2007, so that you can work out of it? Or is it just a call for further assessments?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12.ana.ud2623e1748	It is gratifying that in the most liberal state budget of the time, the State budget for 2007, the overall framework for transport has grown. I don't think anyone in this room does anything but enjoy it. However, we also record this time that the fishing port chapter is more or less at rest on the ground. That is why it has been given priority by the Right Major Group, and we are proposing to increase this budget by 20 million. kr. I note that the government parties choose to vote in favour of the opposition parties' proposals, which are based on precisely the themes of fishing ports, and specifically the question of initiating negotiations with the municipality of Vestvåg to promote the fishing port project in Stamsund. And I have to ask the Minister for Fisheries the question: why does there have a different approach to the question of a port versus a road? When it comes to the road, you've been creative. There are solutions that go on tolls and on public and private discharges. Here you have a creativity without parallel to keep pace up. In Stamsund, there is a community with a fishing cluster almost unparalleled in Norway. We know that a lack of pace in port development puts the whole development at risk. Here, local communities, county councils and local businesses have applied to the State not to buy space in the queue, but to be allowed to advance the development, and after 14 months of proceedings in the department, they have been refused. Then is my natural question to the Minister of Fisheries, I assume that he is in the Chamber today: Does it have anything to do with ideology, when one chooses to deal with shooting issues differently in terms of fishing ports, than in terms of exploiting creativity in order to keep pace and develop in the road sector? Here, we're just talking about increasing the development along the Norwegian coast and getting more money back. Therefore, the question is: why is there an ideological input to developing fishing ports at a faster pace than the rate of allocation proposed, than is the approach that is able to be adopted in terms of creative solutions for speeding up road construction?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12.ana.ud2623e1759	I also want to be in Norway around. I'm going to start in Bamble. Major parts of the line E18 through Bamble have very high death rates and very high accident rates. It's a fact that the road through Bamble was built at a time when there were actually more farmers than cars on the route. Now the entire Telemark bench has been on the pulpit and expressed the need to find a solution for parts of this distance. Then to the railroad. It is good that Stortinget now gets on the rails again in the railway policy. The railway effort shall again have its place in Norwegian transport policy, as expressed in the National Transport Plan. Many railway projects have been in line for a long time, with no solution. The owner tunnel is obviously such a project. It is important to clarify that the railway tunnel on the Farriseidet-Porshund route is not a small local railway project. It's a nationally good railway project, and it's a real test of whether we're going to have a railway policy in this country at all. It will also be a necessary project for later bets against Sørlanden. There's been some excitement in Telemark and the surrounding areas. You are happy in the railway, and glad you finally have to get planning resources for this route. We have waited a long time for money for planning under various governments. When the planning money comes into place, we can't see it in any other way than a commitment from our red-green government that this tunnel is coming. The Bratsberg railway is among the most efficient and fastest means of transport between Notodden and Grenland. We have to ask the State Council to see if it is not the most appropriate and provides the best economy for the state to buy services on this route directly. We find it rather strange that there are two ferry sections in this area of the country that have not been found worthy of national road status, as the Committee on Transport has pointed out on several occasions. This concerns Randsfjordferga in Uppland and the ferry operating on Kragerøskjærgården. We find no good reason why this case cannot be resolved. New traffic figures for one ferry, as the representative Bård Hoksrud referred to, show that they are very high. We encourage the Council of State to look at this matter again. Then we are very pleased that the road to Kragerø is now to be completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12.ana.ud2623e1774	I'm not going around Norway. I'll just try to sum up a little bit. I want to get to grips with what the Council of State said in a row earlier today. She reiterated the importance of dealing with traffic rules, both in traffic and in economic policy. I agree. This applies both to the Center Party and to the Advance Party, of course. But what I can't accept is that someone should be able to sneak away from traffic rules and the economic reality of using a tractor. I record in relation to the debate that what the Central Party once thought was very good, and what the Central Party actually has in its programme, to propose this today, that is populism. I also record that the Government's 2007 rail effort will provide better weather conditions in the West. It's going to get dryer in Bergen next year, and that's probably what Blackevik is looking forward to. And then there's going to be a party in Rogaland, because there's going to be double tracks, and then I don't dare think about what party it would have been in Rogaland if the Advance Party budget had gone through and we'd have removed all the toll stations in Rogaland. I also register that the representative of Klungland from the Workers' Party lacks notice. It's not that strange, because Klungland is just talking about the Progress Party, and then he can't expect to get a look-up either. I record that when the Progress Party has entered into a settlement, it's about having power. In the last period it was only when the Progress Party had agreed that it was a majority. In the previous period, this was not the case when the government formed a majority with the Workers' Party. Then it wasn't a majority. It was not a majority in the previous period when SV formed a majority with the government. It was only when the Progress Party formed a majority with the previous government that it was a majority. Understand the one who can. Then I also record that SV has actually messed up a little bit in history and found that the comparison between Kjell Opseth and Inge Myrvoll, in its time, no longer exists, and I find that interesting. In fact, I am pleased to see that the representative Svein Glüsth from the Workers' Party is now building bridges, roads and tunnels in 2007, when you have 268 million. kr available for construction of roads. That'll be interesting. It's sad that we don't get a debate in Stortinget when we're locked up by the Finance Committee and the Government. My conclusion is that when we come to the same situation in 2007, the road standard will be as bad as it was in late 2006, with some improvements, where communities have been pressured by the Centre Party to pay the sea, or have been charged with an additional tax.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12.ana.ud2623e1791	In order to meet people's expectations for better communication, it is absolutely essential to pursue an economic policy that allows us to have professionals available for investment and maintenance. As we know today's high economic situation, with a shortage of professionals, but not a shortage of money, this calls for a new debate in order to bring forward instruments so that we can give greater priority to Community investment. Therefore, in today's economic situation, what is important is the debate, not the right's desire for more privately funded road construction. The state has cheaper money at its disposal than private. We know that from experience. For the Center Party, the digital all-man rights are central. In the same way that we established power and telephone connection to all households, we now need to get broadband in a similar way. This is a crucial prerequisite for providing schooling with equal opportunities in education regardless of residence, for public service provision and information to reach all, which will allow for strong efficiency and for more jobs to be established where young people want to live. So far, we have basically had a market-driven demand-driven expansion, and this has led to the fact that very many people do not have access to some broadband quality, even far from the quality needed to provide digital universal access with practical content. According to the report of the Postal and Telecommunications Authority of 9 January this year — Assessment of broadband coverage, page 14 states that ‘market-driven deployment of broadband offers cannot be offered to all’. The report states that with demand representing a quality demand downstream of users of 2 Mbit/s, line lengths of more than 3 to 4 km on today’s access network could not be used, based on technical constraints. It is therefore essential for the Minister of Renewal and Administration to carry out quickly a new professional assessment of the availability of broadband for residences, which provides a forward-looking quality that meets the needs of business, school youth and public services. The 2007 state budget is a clear improvement through increased public co-financing of broadband development. However, a necessary analysis of the country-wide availability of broadband will show a strong need for a continued rise, so that demand-driven expansion can be complemented by supply-driven expansion. This is a justice requirement in line with previous times' demands for and expansion of electricity and telephone lines. The Central Party is pleased that the Grande Røys Council of State in its statement here today said that she would come back to the Stortinget with a reassessment of the appropriations needed to comply with the Soria Moria Declaration in the context of the revised 2007 National Budget. For the Center Party, it's a very priority matter. Otherwise, the government is fulfilling its national transport plan through the draft budget for 2007, and it is a happy stage win, but nothing more. Especially is it well received by people who need trains and cars, that the maintenance is prioritised by Navarsete State Council. As a result of the great delay in maintenance, it is important that this priority be pursued further.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12.ana.ud2623e1808	With the previous post that I made, I wasn't completely finished, and after what I understand, I share that destiny with others. And that's because it's so very good to tell about in this budget that time doesn't go on. It is good that the government has found financial room for a start-up grant to repair the rent in the Brevik stream. It's an important contribution. In addition, coastal culture is important. The Government Parties, with the support of the Christian People's Party and the Left, have asked the Ministry to present a case on how one intends to secure the state funding of the Coastal Museum in connection with the State budget for 2008. In addition, as has been said earlier here today, there is an overall plan for the main depot. The representative Per Sandberg spoke, among others: in its main statement on the great slowdown and the description of the misery that this budget has. It is strange that the representative Per Sandberg and the citizen side have not taken on board the fact that they are responsible for the last budgets. I think one should soon go to such a concession. Maybe you had a different basis to assume then. But it may be bad to admit that transportation was not a priority under Bondevik II, with the Progress Party as a supporting party. It's not just the government that boasts of this budget. I said earlier today that it had to be hard for the opposition to hear the unique rose that this budget received when we were at the hearing. That's the results you have to worry about. The opposition, including the Advance Party, had the opportunity to refer to results in the previous period, but no. The bourgeois and the Advance Party had neither the ability nor the will. In fact, I think there is a certain fear of the citizens and of the Advancement Party when they see that we are fulfilling the promises. Not only in transport, but also in relation to the Soria Moria Declaration and National Transport Plan, we build bit by bit. They did not avail themselves of the possibility when they had it in the previous period.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12.ana.ud2623e1822	The government has taken a huge leap for transportation. We deliver what we have promised in the Soria Moria Declaration, and what we have promised in the National Transport Plan. Moreover, the National Transport Plan agreed with the Progress Party and voted in favour of the Stortinget. Earlier in the debate, the representative Hoksrud asked why it would be a disaster if the appropriations for the railways had remained at the level described as slightly below the level of the Government budget for 2006. I do not know what the representative Hoksrud calls disaster, but surely it is that it would not have been easy for the rail sector in Norway if the proposals of the Progress Party had been adopted. First of all, the government is increasing the appropriations for the railway by 950 million. kr, i.e. close to NOK 1 billion, while the Advance Party cuts NOK 1.9 billion. This cut they distribute like this: minus 650 million. kr for operation and maintenance, i.e. 20 pst. Cut, and minus 850 million. kr for investments, i.e. 38 pst. Cut, cut, And then they cut 400 million. NOK in the purchase of passenger train transport services, i.e. 25 pst. It should be remembered that when we delivered our budget for 2006, it was not exactly applauded. The state of Norwegian railway is not joy and vulture. The cutting edge of the Progress Party thus contributes to making a major challenge even bigger. I think it is serious to cut in operation and maintenance. This I call cut in safety. What I thought the Progress Party was really concerned about, but it might be that for the Progress Party, it is only the safety of the drivers that is the important thing. The 400-million-dollar cuts. kr in passenger train transport services would e.g. have led us to lay down Meråkerbanen – in Per Sandberg’s own county – and we had to lay down the Nordlandsbanen. The cuts in investment would have made it impossible to develop double tracks on Lysaker. The progressing party would thus have forced most people into queues and away from the train. Perhaps the Progress Party has realized that their gallupes are increasing proportionally with the automobile queues, and that they are therefore doing what they can to prevent good solutions? Clearly, it is a goal for the Advancement Party that most people have to stand in line, queue and queue again. We choose to bet on both the road and the track. We have solutions for the future, and with this budget we show that we can deliver.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12.ana.ud2623e1837	There was a direct question about the Freifjord tunnel, which I would like to acknowledge. The costs of the Ålesund tunnels and the Freifjord tunnel have increased more than those foreseen in the 2006-2009 action programme. Revised cost estimate for Ålesund tunnels is about 240 million. kr and for the Freifjord tunnel of approximately 155 million. kr. That's 100 million. kr more than what was used for these tunnels. It says that it is detailed to project the securing work in the Freifjord tunnel and to illuminate supply. In any case, the start will not be effective until the end of 2007. If funds are advanced in 2007 and 2008, such a start will be possible in autumn 2007. To be very clear today: if one sets up advance funds from the county or from other local actors, the Ministry of Transport will take a positive view of such an advance, of course under the condition that the advance is in accordance with the advance rules. I'm talking about reimbursement without compensation for interest rate and price rise and the like, which is always to be borne in mind. It is a requirement that the security of those travelling in the tunnels be preserved – even at the time the plates are removed. We will follow very closely the steps taken by the State Road Service to ensure the safety of those on the road during this period as well. When it comes to the requirement for Randsfjordferja and Kragerøferja to be state road ferries, it is not that these two ferries are the only ferries for which a reclassification is desired. A few days after the regional reform has been put forward, where there is a proposal that national roads and roads should be regional and regional routes, I think it would be right to see such a question in context. One should not do a great deal of reclassification now, and then in a short time get a return to the region again – if that's what the Storting will go for. Then we'll have to wait and watch. To the Progress Party: They have not yet realised that there is no government of the Central Party alone that has provided the budget. I register that they only turn to the Center Party, not to the Government. I want them to turn to the Government. It's the government, the three government parties, that's behind the budget. There is no removal of the tolling stations in the Progress Party's alternative budget. So the party in Rogaland would not have been anything special for a party. If the Progress Party had given priority to taking over the Toll Stations, triggered by future and current requirements plus the part of the State in which it is located, the Progress Party budget would have to be completely different from the budget they have presented today. - Yes, it was time, sir. President.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12.ana.ud2623e1856	The government has shown a new policy direction through the 2007 budget. It's a direction where the community has been put in the high-seat, and has actually helped build the welfare society we have today. It may therefore be appropriate to refer to Mr Kristiansen's statement, where he said that we now have the «most liberal» budget of the times. It's nice to hear from a Right-Man. So this government is dealing with the rule of action, and so right in government is not doing it. In relation to what the Bondevik government would have had if it had continued, this government has $12 billion more to spend on common tasks. It is without new tax havens, as the Bondevik government had promised, and as it would have suggested. But when that's said, I regret that the Agder bench today instead of getting together to secure the Lister package funding, about night and night offers in Kristiansand and about walking and cycling paths out to Lindesnes, which means little in economic terms, but which means a lot to the part of the country, has gone in to criticize each other. I'm not going to go to individuals, but I have to say that when I listen to the Advancement Party and the Right in this debate, it reminds me that the pagan community was going to cry out for more gods and more Christianity. The representative, Sandberg, said that I had talked about postings. I don't know what kind of suggestion the representative is talking about. I also do not remember having it in my previous post. But anyway, it must be better than precipitation, so I'm just going to relate to it. But it is that the Progress Party will soon have to realize that they are the largest opposition party. Then they have to bear to be taken seriously, and they have to bear that they are being asked to do so. When they're talking about middle parts, and it says in the program that on today's roads, they're going to have trailers that are 25,25 meters long, and that weigh 60 tons, that means that instead of midway over Women's Heia in West Agder, there's going to be some giants of trailers going to drive. This is the programme of the Progress Party. But I understand that they can change the program because they feel they need it, or because management feels it needs it. If they don't have to find other parties to be members of.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12.ana.ud2623e1869	Arne Sortevik has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12.ana.ud2623e1872	The interpretation of the Progress Party programme, I believe, will leave previous speakers to both the Progress Party itself and the electorate of the Advance Party. Some words about high-speed rail: I think it makes sense to misunderstand some parties about what the Progress Party actually thinks about high-speed rail. Private solution, known as Haukelibanen, has been known since at least 1998, and it was early made clear from the Progress Party that it is a solution that we are open to – a private solution, in 1998. It is not surprising, therefore, that the party management has also said the same thing in 2006. But a public investigation and a public construction of a southern Norwegian high-speed rail, launched in 2006, we are quite opposed to. So, for project financing. I got a strange answer earlier. After two budgets, for 2006 and 2007, the Government is without its own well-founded option, namely project funding with gunnery and own funds from the State. That solution has been buried. The government has no options.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12.ana.ud2623e1881	I would like to take part in a little bit of history – or try one of these. I think that might be a good reason, since a member of the Financial Committee, the representative of Klungland, has just been up on the floor and said that this government does not go beyond the rule of action. At least I thought that those sitting on the Finance Committee were aware that this goes beyond the rule of action by NOK 6-7 billion. History is based on this government granting much more to transportation, and of course it does. They have a commitment in relation to a national transport plan that they themselves are behind and which they are now attempting to fulfil. But they can't – this year either. They're at the back, with over SEK 1.6 billion, towards the road and the railway combined. Then they fall for that temptation to compare with the Bondevik II period. At best, it's pointless. The country was in a completely different economic situation. The resources had to be used in a completely different way to correct the Norwegian economy. I've bothered to check a little in four, five, six settings from the previous year. Here it turns out that in the 2002 setting, the working party had 1 million. kr in addition to the governmental parties. In 2003, they had 35 million. kr less. And in a Workers' Party comment in the 2003–2004 setting, it says: «These members understand that the level of investment needs to be adapted to the economic situation.» That's what the situation looked like. Now it's exciting to see the rest of this NTP period. One representative after another has been up and said that the red-greens are the guarantor of the fulfillment of the NTP period. Nothing will please us in the Right More if this Council of State is able to get it to, because we have noticed each and every post. And we are looking forward to the government in the coming year also having to grant real dollars over the state budget and not unduly attract co-financers. The Minister of Finance takes the Hardangerbrua financial speech for income, and that is probably almost the top of obscenity – a project that should not have a single penny in government funds, and which she has consistently opposed. I must remind you that there is a proposal from the Right and the Advance Party to rectify this practice. The state's share in these shootings is now coming in the years to come, and then it's going to be smaller for other projects.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12.ana.ud2623e1899	Unfortunately, we in Troms have only received less than 2 psts in the last few years. by means of the country. It's too little. We don't have railway, so we don't see anything else in Troms. The tram is still in blue, but through a stronger focus on the northern regions and an OL in Tromsø in 2018, Tromsbanen will come. It is going to be a profitable project, from a transport and environmental perspective, in a sustainable region that will focus both nationally and internationally more than anyone in this room can imagine today. The transport budget of the year is in line with the national transport plan. It's not just good, it's great. The transport budget is a good start, also for us in Troms. There is more money – there will also be more money for Troms. It shows that this government cares about us who live far from the capital. Let me mention what we're betting on in Troms in 2007: 95 million bets. kr, including 25 mill. kr for breed protection. Tromsøpack 2, completed in 2007, is worth 44 million. kr on – an environmental project without equal in Tromsø. Of the 95 million, large parts go to repair rv. 867 outside of Harstad, which has been an old demand from the population around Harstad. Racial protection funds of 25 million. kr is used for measures on the county road network in Troms. In 2007, priority was given to State grants for the continuation of the Landesveg 294 Isbergan in Tromsø and County Road 347 at Arnøy in Skjervøy, which will be launched. This will give people who travel on these roads – and business – a much safer way in the future. The 2007 draft Transport Budget refers to the fact that there has been a long history of considerable uncertainty about the annual operation of the Senja ferries. The councils know the problem, and I think she'll be able to solve it in collaboration with Troms and Nordland county councils. We need predictability for the Senja ferries to become such a must as the region thinks they can become for the local population in the area and travel life in the north. We're betting on providing people in North Troms and in Finnmark with a reduction in the maximum fares on the air services where the state buys air route services. It actually costs more to fly from the Finnmark coast to Tromsø than it costs to travel from Oslo to Greece and live there for 14 days in a real hotel. It can't be fair. Finally, I just want to say that in Troms we're still waiting for a trial of free janitors, but I don't think we're waiting in vain. But again, it goes up, and soon the sun is back in the north. With the sun comes the light, the heat and the hope of a new spring and a new summer. This government gives hope and faith, and shows love for us in District Norway. What more can we demand – only the goods will be delivered?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12.ana.ud2623e1916	The president almost wanted to say hallelujah.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12.ana.ud2623e1919	I also want to participate in this Norway tour. It is in any case a good budget, where more steps are taken in the right direction. Of course, it is also that one does not solve all the challenges through the existing budget, but one can see that the steps are now bigger than ever before. I want to reflect a little on the fact that I have been a weekly commuter for over a year. When I go home, I historically follow the tracks back to 1882 – at least from Larvik to Porsgrund. Since then and until now, the railway between Larvik and Porsgrün has not seen the large investments, perhaps except when the track was electrified. I don't know if it was anything for travel time, but I'm considering the nature of the track, I'm highly doubtful about that. On 10 May 1996, the Ministry of Transport sent out a press release on Vestfoldbanen and the Parisle between Porsgrund and Larvik that the planning will continue, and that one has the hope of starting the works at the earliest in 1998. So now we're in 2006, with the entrance to 2007, right in front of us, and we're not yet going. I now hope that the Minister of Transport – and I assume that she can do it – will replace the history of 1996 and the traces of 1882. So short of anything else that is mentioned in the budget: E134 over Haukeli. There's a weight on this with the tunnels and that there's going to be a height of 420 cm. We're happy about that. I also think that the tribal route between east and west will appear as the best option. It is right from an environmental point of view, it is right in view of the conflicts that lie there, and in view of linking the large population-rich areas in the best way. Finally, to follow up the representative Olsen: I can assure you that when I talk about the E18 through Telemark, the entire Telemark bench has confirmed that matter. But it's about the problems that are mentioned and that are increasing. We get a great E18 from Vestfold to Telemark's border, there will be good roads from south to Telemark's border – and Telemark will be a point where the problems are in line. It is very important for us to point out that it is absolutely necessary to implement immediately – as pointed out and supported by the Regional Council – measures immediately.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12.ana.ud2623e1932	Now, as we increase rail investment by 50 pst, we have come a good step closer to the realization of a very important railway project in Norway, namely modernized west-folding track. As a west fold with bopel in Oslo, I have developed a close relationship with the railway. As far as the Vestfold track is concerned, it's become a hate-love relationship--most love, because I love driving trains in the first place. I can work, talk to a nice service, stretch on my legs or just sit and look out of the window and think of Christmas. I can read a good book or listen to music, but unfortunately do not listen to radio – which stops the comfort. In addition to the lack of radio capability, the hate ratio has its cause in the many delays, the lack of frequency of departures, old trainsets and all waiting for crossing trains. It is simply too bad – but then there is also a route based on the construction technique of the 1880s, with many turns, little capacity and a very little repair. Actually, it is embarrassing that we, the richest country in the world, have set ourselves such a low priority for so many years, whereas comparable countries have realized that railway investment is necessary, forward-looking and wise. It is impossible to do what the Progress Party says – build us out of traffic problems by one-sided investment on the road. There are hopeless environmental policies, hopeless traffic policies and hopeless road safety policies. That's why it's important that we've now started the big spin operation, which we have to make sure to continue. I'm sure that the chance to get to this is infinitely much greater than if the representative Svein Fleet and Right had ruled, especially in the twin team with the Advance Party, who doesn't understand the joke with the railroad at all. I am pleased that the majority of the Committee on Transport has stated that the priorities we have made locally in Westfold should be established. No longer shall there be such a doubt as to the construction of double tracks between Barkåker and Tønsberg, to propose high-speed rail as an alternative to regional trains, or that the route should be laid outside the major cities, which would have been a fatal blow to the Westfold Railway. We have received an express bus, the TIMExpress, which together with the four-field E18 has already put the train in a hopeless competitive situation. The answer to that competition is double-track on the Vestfold track, intercity, based on the plans available. The west fold path is without comparison the distance that has the greatest growth potential. But between 2001 and 2003, we had a drop in the number of travelers of 25 pst. And we're still 18 pst. below 2001 level. In fact, it is now that without the necessary repairs, the existence of the Vestfold track is threatened – so serious is the situation. It is therefore a valid paradox that this particular route has been down-prioritized over so many years, not least when we see the massive increase in passenger car traffic, and when we have so much knowledge of the consequences of pollution for both people and the environment. As a resident in the inner east of Oslo, I know a little about it. The planning framework of the national transport plan is reached in 2007. We have a great job to do with the aftermath of the previous government. We're going to work purposefully to get a railway we can be proud of in our country. It does not only benefit East Europeans – it benefits the whole country, and it is also important globally.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12.ana.ud2623e1947	I have asked for the floor at the end of the debate because I received a question from the representative Ivar Kristiansen. Now I can't see that he's there, but he's going to get an answer anyway. The question was whether it is ideologically justified on the part of the Government that we have not accelerated the improvement of the port conditions in Stamsund port, with reference to the opportunities for shooting. No, that's not it. Now I don't have much against ideology – sometimes I think there may be too little of it in politics – but in this particular case it's probably more a practical question. Where reference is made to the possibility of spraying in the road sector, it is permissible to advance 500 million. kr within a frame of 5,5 billion kroner – i.e. under 10 pst. The project that this was asked about, Stamsund, is a project that amounts to 120 million. kr, and the total 2007 framework for that type of investment is 185 million. kr. Then it goes without saying that it is in a magnitude that would make it very difficult for the projects to be prioritised in the period from today until Stamsund is on the list, in 2012 and 2013, according to the current plan. They would then have been overlooked in the queue. Otherwise, it must be allowed to comment that the port of Stamsund has not become much shallower in the last year. It is not that there is a new situation in Stamsund and that there is a need for action. There might be reason to ask questions about why it has now suddenly become so much impatience in the parties that a short time ago put in government, while there was nothing to do about solving these issues when they themselves put into government. So we're taking things in order, and that's why Stamsund comes after some of the things that are higher on the list.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12.ana.ud2623e1957	There has been a long and interesting debate. This is, of course, the case when one third of the wholesalers have the floor – there will be many local requests. I am also very pleased that the Buskerud bench, as opposed to the Agder bench, is assembled about the completion of the road package Drammen, rv. 7, E16 and many other good projects. In the setting we now have for treatment, there is a new chapter called ‘Important follow-up areas’. It's perhaps the most interesting part, at least ideologically, in this attitude of transportation. The representative of Gullvåg has been an active spokesman for project financing, and the disappointment has been great that the Ministry of Finance, as he said – I thought it was the Government – has scolded this in Yellow Book. The government writes in Yellow Book: ‘Although the current budgetary system facilitates the rational implementation of investments and with considerable flexibility, the Government will further assess how a better prioritisation, planning and progress of transport appropriations can be ensured within the current budgetary system.’.» That is, in so far as it is a good word, but in the context of the opposition having gathered on a long and good note about OPS and BOT, Building – Operate – Transfer, which is also a new and fine word, the government parties respond in a slightly cryptic note. I want the Council of State to elaborate on this a little bit, because I expect that she has at least been in touch with the comments that the majority have. The majority agree that it will take place within the current budgetary system, and further writes: ‘The majority look forward to this assessment which may provide an alternative project funding model that provides predictable and coherent implementation of investment projects in line with what has also been some of the objectives behind OPS. The majority ask the Government to provide this to the Storting in an appropriate manner by 2008 at the latest.’ I thought the project funding was buried in the Yellow Book, but it is now raised to life again in the setting, as an alternative model within today's budgetary system. It says here that the Government will present this in next year's government budget. Does this mean that the Council of State will come back with a new project funding scheme that will allow us to find a little more untraditional ways of financing roads? Or is this just an attempt to push a problem in front of us and say that this is what we're going to have to do after this government has left?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12.ana.ud2623e1976	Eirin Fallet has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12.ana.ud2623e1979	I just want to say that one should not germinate by standing up from the dead. A lot of people believe it. But then I have to say – to Greece and others who have been about this with OPS – that Greece stopped too early in the quote. Now I read from the setting, and it says: ‘The majority will await the Government’s evaluation of the three OPS projects in place. However, the majority would point out that the development and operation of roads under the direction of private OPS companies represents a significant increase in future government expenditure in the form of annual OPS remuneration. This is because private companies have to calculate significantly higher rates of interest on loans than the country and have an additional return on invested capital.’ So it's not in error. We are waiting for an evaluation of the project. Then I would have liked to get into Halleraker's history description, but I don't have time for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12.ana.ud2623e1993	That's absolutely correct.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12.ana.ud2623e1996	Towards the end of this debate, it is good to recall some of the issues that may not necessarily arise in the debate when just talking about roads and roadways around the country. This government has several thoughts in its head when it comes to transportation. For the Progress Party and partly into the Right, it is so that it is road, road, road, road, road, road, road, road, road, road, road, road, road, road, road, road, road, road, road, road, road, road, road, road, road, road, road, road, road, road, road, road, road, road, road, road, road, road, road, road, road, road, road, road, road, road, road, road, road, road, road, road, road, road, road, road, road, road, road, road, road, road, road, road, road, road, road, road, road, road, road, road, road, road, road, road, road, road, road, road, road, road, road, road, road, road, road, road, and road, road, road, road, road, road, road, road, road, road, The Progress Party does not take the climate challenges seriously, at least not everyone in the Progress Party, even though most people are now beginning to realize that we actually have climate challenges – not least those that are now in the Western world, you're counting off in an uproar. In the third world, not least, this is a problem that kills people. If you stay away from that perspective and just talk about the road dust and the four-field highways, either to the churches or to other places, there's a way to debate that takes away important elements. That's what I thought the Progress Party should not do. So they do not address the climate problem in terms of increasing traffic — or increasing air traffic, for the sake of the cause. That's why you can't discuss the railways in central lines. With the Progress Party's policies, one can only ignore it – one can ignore the fact that there are multiple queues, one can ignore the fact that there are more pollution, more noise problems, more asthma problems. All of this can only be done because they can only talk about path. But they also need to start looking at the additional problems created by this road, road, road policy. There are different ways of attacking this, but as the Progress Party is sure to know, 1.2 million people are already plagued by traffic noise. Very many people in the world are surrounded by climate problems. The progress party doesn't care about this. They only want multiple ways. But they don't want to talk about the consequences. What bothers me in this debate, which is now about to come to the end, is that such perspectives are forgotten by the Progress Party. They're not forgotten by the Government, because we're simply dealing with an arrangement, where we'll look at the possibilities to reduce air traffic by creating a competitor on hams. They're not forgotten in the gigantic investment we have on the railway, for example. on the North Jären with $0.5 billion. They're not forgotten because we're relative positive to N.E.W. Corridor to Narvik and the train project up there. They are not forgotten - in many areas. But where does the Progress Party stand when it comes to this question, which actually kills people? Where are they when it comes to these important challenges, which the Soria Moria statement is aware that we are going to do something about?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12.ana.ud2623e2011	First of all, I would like to say that once our alternative budget proposal has fallen, the Christian People's Party supports the budget of the Government. I have thus confirmed what we have said earlier that we have commended the Government for the draft budget it has presented. Then I would like to thank the Minister for Fisheries and Coastal Affairs for their response to N.E.W. Corridor. I think it was a very constructive and positive response, given the time horizon, that those working on the corridor are now going to get an answer as to whether they are getting the guarantee. I then assume, and I think I've listened to, that that's going to be a positive answer. In that case, there will also be joy in the Christian People's Party camp. Then we're not quite as agreed on the Stamsund port. I'm not going to go into the ideological pieces here, but I just want to say that there's nothing new that has emerged today. This case has been quite a long time, but the priority has been pushed out, and it has to do with the amount. But it is now that Norway's largest trawler company has renewed one of its trawlers, and they are to renew the rest of the trawler fleet. The new trawler does not enter the port today, but has to deliver somewhere else, and you get extra transport costs. The new trawls cannot be built until the port has been expanded, because the boats do not come in there, to the company for which they have the largest delivery obligations. That is why an overall opposition has asked the Government to look at the funding model proposed. There are quite acute problems related to the port of Stamsund. Now I'm not going to go into the ideological, but leave it. So to what's been black about the City Tunnel. I can't see it from the point of view I have, other than how I underlined it in my post, that when you choose not to come back to the City Ship Tunnel until 2009 – possibly in 2009 – that means that this government has said from that project. So you have to get back to that in 2009. This probably means moving it over into a new magnification period, and so there is no reason to enjoy along the coast over what has now happened to that project.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12.ana.ud2623e2022	I was challenged by the representative of Greece on questions about alternative project funding and project funding model. First, I have to say that the government has not planned to leave, so one can get a good time to come back with a settlement about OPS – which we are now evaluating, and which we will of course come back to – and an alternative project finance. The main purpose and impact of project funding is rapid development, with the project being fully funded when a start is made. I took over all the projects that the previous government had started without them being funded – we can use this as a simple example of what is not project financing. The kind of policy that the previous government was running, to spend 10 million. Here and $15 million. there to start up a project that would cost 1 billion to complete, at least not project funding. Then one will wait until the next crossroads. Of course, the government will come back with its assessment. Halleraker said that the Government has not added real kroner. Anyone who can read a budget – and I believe everyone in the financial committee – can see that we have increased the budget by real dollars up to the NTP level, and then we have turned 0.5 billion into maintenance compared to investment. We have done that because it is common sense – and this time it was up to this council and this government to use common sense. I've used an example before: it's a bad homeowner who builds a new kitchen while the rest of the house falls down around one. And that's actually what the previous government did. Previous governments have not been so much better either. One has neglected to maintain, and this government is taking over now. This debate has shown the importance of relations between Norway and Norway, as has been said with a smile. Road and ferry, rail and other public transport, air transport, postal services, telecommunications and broadband – all that is needed for this society to function, for business to function, and for people to live in this country. So all over the world, there's a vision of zero people killed and seriously injured in traffic. There has been little topic here today, but I would like to conclude by saying that the most important thing – overseeing the government’s policy – is that we can approach the zero vision. The main objective of road safety work is between the steering wheel and the driver’s seat — that is the driver. Speed, rushes, sleep deprivation, and stress are the cause of too many accidents today. The safety belt and the use of reflexes, simple things, can reduce the number of people killed and hard damage – much. It shows the report submitted by the State Road Administration on the accident hangar in 2005. I want to ask the Size not only to focus on midpoints or on broader ways, even if it's important. We need a composite, comprehensive policy to meet the challenges of road safety.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12.ana.ud2623e2037	Per Sandberg has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12.ana.ud2623e2040	I found it necessary to take the floor when the Progress Party was indirectly accused of killing, as the representative of Langeland was involved. That's why I want to replicate that it's amazing that it comes from someone who represents SV, who is probably responsible for most lives lost in traffic. SV now proposes a car tax policy that will create even more pollution locally, which is likely to kill even more people locally – so I will have asked for it. When we add up to a transport policy, that we want the world's most modern infrastructure on the road and lower car charges, it's because we want to reduce pollution. Better – and good – cars will pollute less. Better – and good – roads will pollute less by reducing emissions, reducing consumption, and reducing traffic damage and accidents. It's implicit in our policy. But that the representative Langeland is trying to do this to cover his own party's responsibility for the fact that this year almost 250 people will be killed on Norwegian roads, I understand that.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12.ana.ud2623e2047	State councillor Andersen was concerned about this with ideology. Maybe the most important ideology is keeping what you promise. In my district, we had a visit by the Prime Minister this summer. He promised a clarification on Rv. 2 by the end of August. Working with Rv. 2 is on, it's on, it's on, it's on, it's on, it's on, it's on, it's on, it's on, it's on, it's on, it's on, it's on, it's on, it's on, it's on, it's on, it's on, it's on, it's on, it's on, it's on, it's on, it's on, it's on, it's on, it's on, it's on, it's on, it's on, it's on, it's on, it's on, it's on. What is the reason why we now need clarification is that progress is actually threatened. But it is not certain that you can promote the necessary propositions in order to get a continuous expansion. I don't know if Navarsete State Council has speaking time, but at least I hope the debate doesn't ebb out that you can't focus on this. I want the Council of State to take into account how important this road is for the district and what expectations have been created. If we don't get a continuous extension of rv. 2 with a narrow four-field solution – like the one that's chosen – I don't think it's understood in the region.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12.ana.ud2623e2056	Truls Wickholm has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12.ana.ud2623e2060	It may be useful for the representative Sandberg to notice that trains pollute even less than cars. I just want to continue where the representative fell asleep. For Halleraker's history, it may be worth noting that the framework within which we operated was the established framework of the Bondevik II government. What's important to remember is that there was $12 billion in tax bills for those who had the most from before. But it's nice that the Right now seems to have gone a little away from that line in this budget, and that they spend more on community and transportation and are not so busy giving to those who have a lot from before. I doubt that the economic situation in the country when Bondevik II presented its last budget was so different from the economic situation when we now presented our first.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12.ana.ud2623e2067	The scheduled time for the morning meeting is now over. The President, however, sees it as appropriate that we should end this debate before the end of the sitting, provided that it is not extended any more than is currently available on the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12.ana.ud2623e2070	We have noticed all the posts from the position, said the representative Halleraker from the right. He thought the posts were too positive on his own behalf with a good transport budget. We in the position have also noticed the opposition posts and appeal points that there is in any case not enough money for maintenance or investment on the road, and that we have no alternative to the success story OPS. Well, there's probably never enough money to go for the Right and the Advance Party no matter what we do with. It is strange that the Right has realized that project funding is equal to debt financing. On behalf of the opposition, the lot has held several funerals over project financing and provided early. In addition, they refer to OPS as a success story. The claim from the Right that OPS is an untold success story is to advance the evaluations and ignore the negative aspects. The OPS projects have ensured effective and coherent deployment, but they are costly, are the feedback we have received and have also been mentioned here in the past. That is why we want to explore alternative forms of project funding in order to achieve a more predictable and coherent development of road and rail projects that are not so expensive to the State. Is not the Right, as a responsible party, concerned with the cost aspects of OPS and that through such an evaluation we look at the possibility of another funding mechanism that is not so costly? Or is the lot completely blinded by OPS, so that they do not see any other possibilities?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12.ana.ud2623e2077	The representative Hallgeir H. Langeland has had the word twice, and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12.ana.ud2623e2080	The UN Climate Panel and the great majority of the world's researchers believe that climate problems take human lives, because in the rich West we do not reduce our greenhouse gas emissions. Parties that do not care about this at all should listen to the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change in that context. That's the main score from my side. If one just talks about the road and is not willing to listen to Al Gore, Kofi Annan, Bill Clinton and others of the Progress Party's favorites, there's a problem. That's my point. If you don't think about the greenhouse gas problems at all, don't think about air pollution, not thinking about noise problems, but just thinking about roads and cars, then you have a problem with those who are affected by that policy. That's the point. Otherwise, I would just like to comment in relation to SV's responsibility that this is the first time SV is in government and can be responsible for the policy. The Progress Party has negotiated the budget several times and may be responsible for many years' budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12.ana.ud2623e2087	The representative Øyvind Halleraker has spoken twice, and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12.ana.ud2623e2090	I have to be very short. In the last budgetary position, i.e. for the current year, the Right was positively waiting for project funding. We're still going to be. What came in the Yellow Book was also discouraging to us. We could envisage the development of this and also the development of the OPS system. I hope those red-greens don't have allergies to what's in the private solution around OPS. I think we should be able to come up with new solutions to finance large and important transport projects that call for new and creative ways to do it. I think we owe that to the business community and the people of this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12.ana.ud2623e2097	The representative, Mr. Bård Hoksrud, has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12.ana.ud2623e2100	When the representative of Langeland chooses to go down to a low level, as I feel he did in his previous post, one could just go back and say that SV in Telemark chooses to vote against the development of E18. That means that, based on Hallgeir Langeland's definition, you can say that SV is involved in taking lives, because people die on E18 who are not allowed to drive on a proper four-field highway.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12.ana.ud2623e2105	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1334]]
