ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04.ana.ud2667e103	The representatives of Morten Høglund, Trond Helleland, Olav Gunnar Bello, Alf Ivar Samuelsen and Sigvald Uppøen Hansen, who has been licensed, have again taken their seats. From the nominee to Turkey, there is an application for a permit signed by the Head of the Delegation, President Thorbjørn Jagland of the United Kingdom. The application concerns leave in the days 4 and 5 December of President Thorbjørn Jagland and representatives André Oktay Dahl, Sigrun Eng, Heikki Holmås, Henning Skumsvoll and Lars Sponheim. That application is proposed to be examined immediately and to be accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For the West Agder County: Kjell Ivar LarsenFor Akershus County: Cathrin BretzegFor Buskerud County: Nina Mjøberg and Stein-Roar EriksenFor the Hordaland County: May Britt VihovdeFor Oslo: Akhtar Chaudry2. Nina Mjøberg and Stein-Roar Eriksen are elected to Lagtinget for the time they meet for President Thorbjørn Jagland and the representative Sigrun Eng respectively.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04.ana.ud2667e167	Nina Mjøberg, Kjell Ivar Larsen, Stein-Roar Eriksen, May Britt Vihovde and Akhtar Chaudry are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04.ana.ud2667e173	The President will propose the election of two presidents for the Stortinges meetings today and the rest of the current week – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Sigvald Uppøen Hansen and Gunn Olsen. – Other proposals are not available, and Sigvald Oppebøen Hansen and Gunn Olsen are unanimously elected as presidents of the current week’s meetings.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04.ana.ud2667e187	From the Prime Minister's Office there is the following letter to Stortinget, dated 1 December 2006: ‘In the Council of State of the H.M. King held at Oslo Castle on 1 December 2006 at 2.30 p.m. The Secretary of State for Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg is hereby appointed Deputy Secretary of State Hilde Singsaas.State Secretary for Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg is hereby appointed State Secretary.State Secretary Lars Erik Flatø is hereby dismissed from office as Secretary of State for Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg.State Secretary Krishna Chudsama is granted on application from the office of State Secretary for Government Karita Bekkemellem. The referenced letter shall be annexed to the minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The first alternate of the Finnmark County, Alf E. Jakobsen, takes the seat of the representative of the time Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen is State Secretary.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04.ana.ud2667e219	I am not the case spokesman alone, and I expect that some of the other case spokespersons will also mention their specific areas, but the Committee makes this statement, Budgetary revenue. S. No 10, on the budget of the Royal House, the Grand Duchy and its subordinates, the Civilo Ombudsman, the EOS and the Riksrevision. The setting is based on the frames given in Settings S. No. 1 and adopted on 28.11.06. As usual, there is a unanimous attitude from the control committee. There are a few special comments that will probably be commented on by the parties that have them. When it comes to the area for which I am specifically responsible, the Civil Ombudsman, I will only once and for all stress the importance of the role of the Civil Ombudsman in our society, and the good and useful job that that institution is doing. I hope that the Storting will also facilitate the relationship for the future so that individuals can feel that there is an institution that can help them in some areas where they are struggling against overpowering, to say so. With these few words I recommend the setting from the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04.ana.ud2667e230	I would just like to add a few words to the Royal Hoff and the April and the National Audit Office, for which I am the case rapporteur. In connection with the work on the budget, the Committee has been on an inspection at the Oscarshall and the King's seat and received a presentation of various projects from the Chief of Staff and his staff which the Committee found very useful. Also at Oscarshall there is now extensive work, as has been done in the past at Bygdøy Kongsgård and also at the Castle and Skaugum. It has been shown that the maintenance, modernisation and development of all these properties has probably been down in the past. Therefore, extensive upgrades have been necessary in recent years. I would like to express my hope that we will have a good system that will take care of all the properties that the royal family owns and that they dispose of, so that it will be used more for normal maintenance than for large upgrades due to a lack of maintenance. We are pleased with the new system implemented after a sample work in 2002 with regard to the breakdown of the expenditure covered by the plan and what is covered by the State budget, in particular the new item 51 Specific projects. The system is to be evaluated after 10 years, and it is such that the apace is now adjusted in line with wage developments. I would like to express my hope that this will not remove any necessary flexibility. If the activity of the royal family indicates that there is a growth in work, there should also be flexibility in determining the deal at the time of the operation of the new system and, where appropriate, flexibility before the evaluation in a few years’ time. It is therefore an overall committee which notes that the new budgetary system is working well. The Committee also states that it is aware that the plan covers normal operating and maintenance costs also for the private properties such as Prinsehätta and the Royal Court. It was a popular gift, and then it should also be that the people have a certain responsibility for it. The Committee concludes that it considers that the necessary periodical upgrade and development of these properties may be included in the allocation of Chapter 1, item 51. I also want to mention that the Royal House means a lot to the nation. We have seen that travel abroad, which is now also carried out by the Crown Prince couple, with significant and large delegations, is of great value to Norwegian jobs. This is an important work, and I hope that the department will ensure that the modern royal house also has the modern tools necessary for all kinds of operations. I assume that the process ahead of the government's budget proposals is an in-depth and good process, which also involves government members. With regard to the Riksrevision, there is an overall committee that gives praise and support to the Riksrevision's involvement in the work of assisting, and I am pleased that an international section responsible for the development of other countries' national audits, as part of Norwegian assistance, is being set up. After discussion with the Ministry of Development, the Riksrevision has come to the conclusion that there should be appropriations in the budget of the Riksrevision to cover these expenditure. The National Audit Office says that for 2007, they expect to have sufficient funds, but reserve the right to return to the revised national budget for spring. As I see it, it would be useful if the Riksrevision also discussed the part of the Riksrevision's costs that is aid to build national audits in other countries, perhaps also appearing in the State budget. It will be up to the Ministry to assess whether it is to be made visible, as all accounts are drawn up in such a way that it can be reported as ODA appropriations and included in the ODA system. I would also like to congratulate and support the work of the National Audit Office through INTOSAI, which is a joint organisation to strengthen national audits around the world, and it would be nice if the Secretariat, which is now in Oslo, after Canada has had it in the past, also stepped up efforts to pool efforts to develop good national audits in developing countries. It has, as I understand it, been a trend towards competition between national audits of different countries to provide assistance. Then you go in the legs of each other, and it's not a trick. Coordination could also be necessary and sensible, and the INTOSAI secretariat should also be able to take the lead here. It is clear that building good national audits, which will try to prevent corruption and gain good governance — well managed — in these countries, will be of growing importance. Many decades of assistance experience has shown that too much is lost because of corruption and poor management systems. Here I also hope that the Government will facilitate the best possible conditions and provide the necessary support in the various areas it can to the international work of the National Audit Office, both directly and through INTOSAI, in order to obtain better and proper national audits in developing countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04.ana.ud2667e253	Frame area 14 is not the part of the state budget that tends to call for the highest attention. Neither is it this year. According to the central party's view, there is a good basis for the adjustments made, both for the Royal Court, the Stortinget and the Riksrevision. The more surprising is that the Right actually suggests a cut of nearly 40 million. kr in the frame. With their proposals, the National Audit Office will be reduced by 20 million. kr. But as a case spokesman for the Storting and that budget proposal, I find it particularly interesting to hear something more than the scarce comments that Right itself makes in its budget, about where they want to cut to the Storting. So here's a 1.8 million bill. kr. I perceive that Right wants today's framework passed on without any increase, which in practice means a real reduction. Then I see that the Storting asks for funds for pre-agreements for the replacement of some of the housekeepers. It's reported here 30-35 housekeepers. There is no Right Reason to Join. But then they suggest 2.5 million. kr i cut in addition to that on Stortinget. So the question is, what part of the Big One's activity is it right now seems to have become too liberal? It is known that the Right has built up its own buffer in the Storing Group. I have not seen that the permissions of the groups have been too bright. Is that administrative settings? Is that the officer corps? Is that the security section? It might be interesting to hear a little bit more about it. The Christian People's Party proposes five million. kr i cut on Stortinget. They show where to use the funds. They're going to take $5 million. kr of Stortinget's budget for reconstruction in northern Israel. But nothing else has been said about how the cut should possibly be taken.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04.ana.ud2667e264	Just a few notes. As the committee leader said, it's a unanimous attitude, and that's what happens when the frames are laid. But, like the previous speaker, I also feel that it could be in place if the representative from the Right justified something more precisely his proposal on cut. There is a comment on the Storting, but not on the reduction in the legal framework of the Right Alternative State Budget, which is fortunately not adopted, of 20 million. kr to Riksrevision and SEK 1,8 million. Mr Stortinget’s Ombudsman for the administration. It's cut at about 5 and 7 pst, so there's no small cut we're talking about. It would probably be noticeable on the activity in these areas, so it could be in place to get a justification from the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04.ana.ud2667e269	The representative Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa made a little visit to the Christian People's Party at the end of his post. Before I go into it, I would just like to stress that the Christian People's Party is also fully behind the remarks that are in the setting, and that have all ended up about, and I refer to the speeches by the various rapporteurs so far. The question of aid for reconstruction in northern Israel was raised in the Financial Committee in the context of the financial situation. The background was the alternative budget of the Christian People's Party, which had a proposal for this. It was therefore natural that a reference was made to it also in this setting as well as in the setting of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs budget. Israel’s and Lebanon’s acts of war have led to major destruction in Lebanon, and Norway is contributing considerable amounts to the reconstruction there. Missiles against Israel have also led to material destruction in Israel, especially in the north. The Christian People's Party has wanted Norway to show solidarity with the people of Israel in this way, and to show it through a symbolic act. That's the background to our proposal in the financial position to reduce the budget for Storting by 5 million. kr. Five million. NOK is not so much money in the reconstruction context. That's more for a symbolic amount to figure out. By letting the money go from Storting's allocation, it would be a solidarity act directly from Stortinget. We think it might have been nice to show it this way. We've calculated it a little bit – the total budget for Stortinget is 800 million. kr, which will be approximately 0,6 pst. of this. I am aware that the Progress Party has made a similar proposal in the remarks in the budget statement by the Foreign Affairs Committee, but they want to take the money from the assistance to the poor countries. We chose to do it this way. We have been with and given money for good purposes on many occasions, and often we have also cut in areas, not least within the public administration, where it has pained, without having been so carefully prepared where it should be taken. It always cheats when one is exposed to reductions in appropriations, whether they are here or there. We know that. This time we thought it was right that we ourselves were going to sting a little, maybe. I don't think there's any significant pain it's all about in this context. I think this would be relatively easy to handle for Stortinget. I just want to suggest that it is possible to postpone some of the renovations and building renovations that have been planned. If you want to show solidarity, I think you have to afford to let it happen to you.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04.ana.ud2667e280	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 873]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04.ana.ud2667e296	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 5 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 20 minutes, Progress Party 15 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes and Left 5 minutes. In addition, the President will propose that there be a succession of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers of each party group and five lines with replies after the posts of members of the Government – within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04.ana.ud2667e307	In Norway, we have had a strong tradition of using policy instruments to achieve common societal goals. One of the objectives has been to have a balanced population development across the country, in urban and rural areas. That's why we've used tools to spread value creation and to have a value creation where the commodities are. Through law-making, through raw fish law, through concession law, through support schemes such as SND, through energy and industrial development, and through a number of instruments, we have ensured value creation around the country. We have also had an equal side in terms of access to public welfare goods. We've had the expansion of local hospitals, district colleges, we've chosen to have a fine-skinned municipal structure with good local welfare services, and we've used state and municipal instruments to facilitate a diverse cultural life across the country. Today’s scattered settlement is a consequence of a number of political and individual choices. Prior to the 2005 elections, much of the political debate, on the one hand, was about the willingness to use policy instruments to achieve common goals, and, on the other hand, about the belief that the market alone is responsible for steering development. In the committee setting, it is easy to identify this policy divider. It can be graduated. First comes the party of progress, then comes to the right, then comes to the left, and then comes the Christian party of people. The party to the progress is quite clear, as they state in their main comment that it is the market as the ‘shall manage the pattern of residence’ in Norway. So even if you agree on a lot, there's a clear dividing line, and it goes on the will and belief that politics can be used to achieve common societal goals. At the hearing in the context of the district notification, ten organisations came. Of them, there were six youth organisations. Everyone had an offensive focus, where they pointed to the possibilities and the role they could play, and what role society could play in achieving good development across the country. It sparkled in the commitment of District Norway to our committee hearing, and to be perfectly honest, it's not on all committee hearings that sparkle. I take it as a small sign that just at a hearing on district policy, it's happening that there's going to be youth organisations after youth organisations, and that they're offensive. Youth and district policy policies are linked. Because if we're going to succeed in having a steady development across the country, it's the kids who are sitting on the key. Sentio/Norwegian Statistics conducted a poll in the summer that showed that six out of ten young people wanted to live in the countryside, and that 34 pst. by the city dwellers could imagine moving out of the city. Last year the corresponding survey showed that the majority wanted to live in town. So the trend is turning around. More people like to move out and move to the village. All, except the Progress Party, have stressed in their comments the importance of taking that trend seriously and the importance of adapting the instruments to young people who want to live in the countryside. There are three elements that a broad majority of the Committee raises: 1st@item: inlistbox Attractive workplaces. Should young people move out, one must have attractive jobs.2. Good local well-being, with kindergarten development, school, welfare security.3. Good leisure and cultural services. It's the three elements all but the Progress Party is lifting up in the committee position, and it's completely in line with the government's commitment to both the budget and the notification. The government is acting in relation to the three things that the committee promises: 1st@item: inlistbox The reintroduction of a differentiated employer’s fee and the placing on the market facilitates good and varied jobs throughout the country.2. Through the massive strengthening of the municipal economy and the device in relation to a solid kindergarten extension, a point of good local well-being meets.3. Through the cultural promise that the Government has chosen to give priority to two consecutive budgets, it facilitates a good recreational and cultural offer. There is therefore a good correlation between the priorities of a broad majority in the vote on the notification and the priorities of the Government. But what's the big difference between today's government parties and the previous government parties is that, in addition to writing that we want to do something about it, we actually do something about it in action, both through local economy, through the reintroduction of a differentiated employer's fee and through the commercialisation. I look forward to a good debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04.ana.ud2667e349	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04.ana.ud2667e352	It could act on the representative as if it were going well in Building Norway. There's probably a little bit different perception of that. The construction of small-scale power stations can be important for small municipalities in order to generate growth, and it can be a means of disseminating knowledge and values into municipalities. I want to ask the representative about this by delegating concession authority to the municipalities. Why is the Government and the Center Party against it when it can help to strengthen local democracy and strengthen the municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04.ana.ud2667e359	As the representative Thomsen, we are very concerned about using the potential of alternative energy. For this reason, the State budget has begun to build up an alternative fund to bet on bioenergy, small power plants, wind turbines and other alternative solutions. It's clear that the solid bet we're seeing now could have a huge impact on district settlement, as in my own county, Hedmark. But what we've also been concerned about is that one should be able to have a whole in relation to the expansion. What we're putting in place now are economic instruments that make it profitable to expand both bioenergy, wind power and small power. And then it's important to have a law and a regulatory body that makes one look a whole in relation to the interventions that kind of action entails. In sum, the investment that the government is now making in alternative energy, historically, and I'm absolutely sure that it's going to give good ring-effects all around the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04.ana.ud2667e366	I did not hear the representative mention anything about local administration in his post. I think that's amazing, especially because the Central Party has a lot of comments about the importance of local self-government. We know that this is a matter of uncertainty, because in winter the rapporteurs, along the whole coast, started a bulwark in order to gain greater power in the coastal zone. It's important for those with local government. The government is very unclear on this issue, but the Party SV is perfectly clear and wants strong government governance. We're about to get the regional message. There we have the same lines of conflict – local administration versus how much is to be determined by a central government. The number of opinions of the Central Party on the importance of the local level appears to be tight in the Government. Does the central party representative believe that the content of the government's policy is consistent with the central party's position on local government issues?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04.ana.ud2667e377	The answer to that is yes. I think it's nice to hear that the representative from the Right is starting to worry about the local administration, because in the Right Programme one of the counties is talking about in happy order, but wants to put down the elected middle level. That's exactly what we want to do: to strengthen local perception by strengthening a good intermediate level, instead of having state governance at the intermediate level. There is, of course, the right-wing spokesman for the state of office, while we want local autonomy. We have mentioned this in the Central Party in connection with the allocations to the municipalities. We've set it free, because we have a lot of faith in the local sense and the local beauty. That is why we also want to have an administrative reform that strengthens the intermediate level and ensures a fine-skinned municipal structure to ensure the proximity of individuals and to get good local decisions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04.ana.ud2667e384	It was said that it is will and faith in the districts of Norway. And that's good. It was said that there is a broad consensus – almost all the parties on the Stortinget – that there are jobs, local welfare, volunteering and culture that are the cornerstones of a good rural policy. But then it's not just the will one must have, one must also have the ability. Because when it comes to voluntary policy, this government has probably failed something. Can the representative from the Central Party say that this was a one-off matter – that one will come back strongly in terms of volunteering in the future state budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04.ana.ud2667e391	Firstly, I would say that the most important thing we can do for the voluntary sector is to strengthen the local economy. Over the course of two years, it has been strengthened by 18 billion kroner. It means a lot to local teams and organisations that they have a well-functioning municipal sector. Secondly, in contrast to the previous government, we have not been cut off in support of the Free Fund; we have strengthened it. We have not cut the support of the Adult Education Association; we have increased it. And we have now, in the budget negotiations at Stortinget, put conditions in a better place for the voluntary sector than they were originally. So we really have a pretty good conscience in relation to the job we've done. We are going to do even more, and we are also going to do more in the context of the budgetary procedure in the Municipal Committee to strengthen non-governmental organisations. So we're on the team there, and we're very pleased with the broad commitment that six youth organisations had in the district hearing. We see the importance of it, and that's why we're strengthening it where we can strengthen it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04.ana.ud2667e398	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04.ana.ud2667e402	Working parity, SV and the Centerpartiet have combined a new course for regional and regional policy. We can't decide where people are going to live. We don't want to decide where people will live either. With some exceptions, we cannot decide where companies should be established. We cannot sit on the Stortinget and decide who will become fishermen, farmers, teachers, or how many or who will establish new businesses. What big business and government can do, and as the red-greens now do, is give people a real choice. We give people the freedom to settle where they want to, to feel the security that life is made to bet on housing, work and education in the districts. The main reason for the strong centralisation in recent decades is that young people move from smaller areas to urban areas to take up education. In addition, we see that young women move more than men from home. And as a result, we've got a sort of a fuss in the districts. That is why we need more young people, and we need more women who dare to bet in the countryside in Norway. I am therefore particularly pleased that one of the measures taken by the Government is the establishment of a national action plan for women entrepreneurs. It is important as described in the Communication, that the situation is facilitated, so that it is possible to be both self-employed and caring for children. Another measure that has demonstrated an impact on the creation of new jobs for young people is entrepreneurship in education. It is therefore correct and important that appropriations for this purpose have doubled since 2005. I'm myself from a small town in East Agder, and there we know the problem that young people disappear from the countryside, very well. Many of those who have lived outside the building for a few years, who are now in the establishment phase, say that they can well imagine moving back, but then it's a prerequisite that there are attractive jobs to come back to, or that there are opportunities for those who want to create their own jobs. I am therefore very pleased with the clear youth profile contained in the message. We are now establishing a wide range of regional and regional policy measures that can help build up under optimism and belief in the future in many district municipalities. We have had a boost in the transport sector and a good policy for stability and development in primary industries. And we're going to make sure that the whole country has access to broadband in 2007. In the current year’s budget, the regional contribution to the income system was increased by 225 million. kr. The Labour Party strongly supports the need for three levels of government in Norway. We want to strengthen the regional level of transferring tasks from the state, no matter what the geographical breakdown will be. The regional level is an important instrument for achieving rural development, whether it is today or whether it is becoming larger regions. We reintroduce a differentiated employer's fee. There is a cross-political consensus that this is an invaluable instrument in district policy. The party of progress is the party that desidertably has the most money to spend for good purposes, claiming to be a party for most people. Then, too, we must believe that they count on those who live in the territory. Twenty-three more oil billions will use this party, but in the regional policy instruments they are cutting heavily. The party of progress almost halves the appropriations here. They do the same in the agricultural transfers. That's what they think is possible to do in one budget – think about what they could do in the course of a four-year period! We know that another prerequisite for getting young people and women to bet in Building Norway is that there are good schools there, good kindergartens and active and varied leisure and cultural services. Therefore, as promised in the election campaign, the Government has given municipalities the opportunity to provide better welfare services. The total revenues of municipalities for 2006 and 2007 have been increased by a total of DKK 18 billion, because we know that the municipal economy is the bottom line of district policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04.ana.ud2667e425	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04.ana.ud2667e428	It is paradoxical that the Government wants to identify the costs of increasing centralisation and indicates that it is fully possible to provide scientifically based analyses in the light of these figures. So my question to the representative is, what are you going to do with these numbers? What measures do you want to take, based on these well-thought-out analyses?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04.ana.ud2667e435	Unlike the Progress Party, we know that there are actually a lot of people who want to live in District Norway. That's why we want to identify the real need and in every way to facilitate our development.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04.ana.ud2667e440	In 2004, Telemarksforskning was designated the municipality that was best placed to facilitate economic development. The municipality that won was Ølen Municipality – despite the fact that the characteristic of the municipality is that it does not have a single employee working with the industrial development apparatus. The rapporteur from the Central Party stressed that it is the business community that must take the lead in the positive trend, while at the same time the municipality facilitates being a yes municipality that responds rapidly to enquiries from the business community. However, a prerequisite for such development in the municipality will be that they have decision-making powers in important matters which also concern the possibility of business start-ups. What is the reason why one in this communication does not come up with a single concrete measure to transfer power from state to state and state to municipalities, giving municipalities greater autonomy and exploiting the positive resources they actually have?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04.ana.ud2667e449	We believe, as opposed to the Right, that the county is an important instrument for developing the districts. Business development goes across many municipalities, and the regional level is capable of dealing with all types of actors. Therefore, we see that the county municipality can be a help and have an unbureaucratic and good partnership with the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04.ana.ud2667e456	The representative mentioned the regional reform in his speech, and I am pleased about that. We are going to meet exciting days when the Government is now going to present a message about new tasks to our new folklore regions. It was then said by the representative that this will in any case strengthen local democracy. But does the representative not agree that the more tasks, the more holistic tasks the new elected level will have, the more it will strengthen the possibility of getting things across across sectors locally? Transport, industrial development and culture can work together locally. Would it not be good to have a comprehensive task transferred to the new regions?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04.ana.ud2667e463	Now we're not going to prejudge the events here. We'll have to wait for the task report to see what the new regions are going to do. But whatever it is, I think it's important both for the Government and for the Christian People's Party that the regional level be strengthened with more tasks.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04.ana.ud2667e468	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04.ana.ud2667e471	There have been a number of allegations from this pulpit that the Progress Party is a district enemy party. I will try to prove that, and I will inform the representatives that there are also FrPs living in the districts. Not everyone's gathered in Oslo. I have also noticed that this government aims to maintain the main features of the housing pattern. In an answer to a written question, the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs explains what this involves, and I am pleased that the Council of State acknowledges that neither the Government nor the Stortinget, nor the Progress Party, can decide where people are going to live. The market has regulated the geographical distribution of jobs. Today’s housing pattern is a result of how the market functioned in earlier times. Exports of seafood have e.g. for several hundred years provided a scattered settlement along the coast. The growth of small towns along the south coast is largely due to good times in the international sailing industry. The party of progress is of the opinion that people's free elections will also govern the housing pattern in the future. The Progress Party seems to be interesting on the fifth of the challenges presented by the Government to achieve the regional and regional policy objectives. I interpret this as the government is on the verge of being in favour of centralisation within each part of the country – and there will be a change in what has been official Norwegian policy for the past 50 years. I agree with the Government's goal of reducing the barriers to distance, among other things. in the form of increased pedigree investments. A forward-looking government should have gone much further than what is done. I refer to the alternative state budget of the Progress Party, where it is added to increased infrastructure investment. Getting in touch with local politicians and rapporteurs, they say the road, the road, the road – it can be the most important thing to maintain the settlement in the municipalities. Reduced transport costs are often mentioned, together with lower fuel charges and cheaper cars. The Oslo region is the only urban region in Norway with a size and composition that can match other metropolitan regions in Europe. The Progress Party therefore considers that the Government must facilitate Oslo’s provision of national functions as a capital for the whole country, as well as its function as an engine for value creation and growth regionally and nationally. I point out that the role of big cities in the world economy is becoming increasingly important as a large and growing share of the value added takes place in the service sector, and that competitive Norwegian cities will mean a great deal to Norway's international competitiveness. It is important to have the will to pursue a policy that involves a welfare offer in the districts of quality and freedom of choice, and where the user is placed at the centre. The most important thing cannot be whether the services are provided by private or public providers, but that all residents of Norway should be confident that they will receive good welfare services when they need it, regardless of where they live in the country. The Progress Party calls for a long-term escalation plan from the Government, where there is consistency between the transfers to the municipalities and the costs to the municipalities. That is why we have put forward a proposal that goes on this very point. Today's municipal division was determined at a time when the population was smaller and the transport possibilities were lower. At the same time, county councils have lost their role, and this level of administration is now an unnecessary burden on taxpayers in the country. The Progress Party wants a new system of two levels of government, state and municipality – which is not unknown to those in the room today – where today’s tasks are shared between the remaining two levels of government. I would point out that a two-tier model will have a number of benefits in addition to the obvious cost savings, among others. we believe it will strengthen local democracy, lead to more decentralisation according to the principle of subsidiarity and increased flexibility. Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg stated at the Conference of Rapporteurs to the KS in the spring of 2006 that: ‘To me, it is obvious that the municipal structure that was right before is not necessarily right in the future.’ I fully agree with the Prime Minister on this. This is an opinion which is also consistent with the local authority’s own view of today’s municipal structure. In the autumn of 2003 the current government, in cooperation with the KS, launched the project «Communities of the Future – Municipalities responsible for their development» – a good project, in my opinion. A final report was submitted for the project in the autumn of 2005, in which all municipalities participated. About 10 000 municipal politicians took part in the debate. A review of the municipal government decisions shows that only 25 pst. by the municipalities consider today's municipal structure to be satisfactory. I would also mention that the Progress Party is negative to housing, because this involves a serious interference in ownership that both reduces the value of people's assets and prevents the free movement of dwellings, properties and cabins. I also believe that housing will work against its purpose by making it less attractive to invest in the districts. One thing I often get in touch with is that many municipal politicians are negative about the involvement of the Ministry of the Environment and the county council with each municipality in planning and land matters. The Party of Progress wishes to limit its involvement in local planning. This is what we believe to be local democracy. I would like to point out the possibilities of getting more out of the money that is already being spent, which everyone should be concerned about. For example, it could mean more comprehensive planning and development using collaborative solutions, where private contributions to the operation and construction of roads. I'm somewhat surprised that the government is so negative to this tool. The Progress Party believes that wisdom and local self-government should be decisive for the development of, for example: The coastal zone. I want to warn against a restriction of the local authority's right of disposal over its own beach zone, and I believe this threatens local democracy. I have interpreted the Council of State so that she is concerned with a more differentiated land policy, which I think is a positive development. But we'll have to wait and see if we can see it in practice. It is important that those who know their local environment and conditions there also make decisions. I want to show that the tourism industry is an industry of strong international growth. It is an industry where Norway has a number of natural advantages that should be exploited in line with an active industrial policy, which will also strengthen the districts. I would also like to refer to small scale hydropower production that has a large potential in Norway. The possibilities could have been even more exploited if Norway had established a green certification market together with Sweden. Small scale hydropower could provide an additional income base and strengthen the potential for continued entrepreneurial activity and housing in the districts. I would like to point out that power sales can provide important income to farmers. This is an income that could provide farmers with an economic platform at a time when the income from traditional farming is under pressure. It is important that an alternative source of income can continue to provide the basis for farm use in municipalities. The construction of small-scale power plants means that values are built for future generations, and it provides a basis for nutrient activity and housing in municipalities. The Progress Party believes it is important to delegate the concession authority for micro- and mini-power plants to the individual municipality, which we consider to be a strengthening of local democracy. I believe that the Central Party has little faith in local self-government when one does not believe that local government can even determine the salary of a rapporteur.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04.ana.ud2667e521	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04.ana.ud2667e525	The representative Ib Thomsen initially said that the Progress Party in this debate has been accused of being a district enemy party. I have heard nothing more than that those who have previously been up in the pulpit have pointed out the proposal of the Progress Party – and what consequences it could have. We may have thought that this was anti-district policy, but it was the Progress Party itself that said it! The Progress Party will cut the appropriations for regional policy instruments by over DKK 1 billion. In agricultural transfers, the Progress Party will cut by nearly NOK 6 billion. The policy of the Progress Party, as everyone understands, will lead to strong centralisation with depopulation of the districts and major urban press problems. My question to the Progress Party is very simple: why does the Advance Party want such dramatic changes in Norway? What is it that the Progress Party wants to achieve with such a centralizing policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04.ana.ud2667e534	I had hoped that through my post I would have clarified part of the question asked by the representative, but I could try to repeat it. The Progress Party has other instruments in the field of district policy. We are betting on roads and infrastructure, which is what most municipalities are asking for. We want to give more self-confidence to the municipalities to govern their own daily lives, something that the representative and the party he represents are strongly opposed to. I gave this example with the concession authority for small power plants and micro-power plants, which could have been a contributor in the small municipalities. There is something the Workers' Party does not want to delegate to the municipalities. So my answer is that investing in infrastructure and roads, and the fact that the level of charges has to go down, will make it more interesting to live in the districts.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04.ana.ud2667e543	I want to start by giving praise to the Advancement Party, because it is not often we see the true face of the Advancement Party as visible as in this setting. In this setting, there is a purely liberalist policy that is made visible. It is the market to determine where people will live in this country and the political governance must be limited. We see the populist sewer in a few areas, especially in road construction – that is, politicians should be involved in increasing appropriations. But beyond that, it is the market that is to govern this development. I agree with Ib Thomsen that there are progress party people living in the countryside too – it's probably where they live, many of them at least. So my question to the Progress Party is: Should this – based on the liberalist belief that it is the market that is to govern – be the last time the Stortinget is debating district policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04.ana.ud2667e553	I get skeptical when I get commendation from SV. If I am called too populistic because I am listening to the municipalities, the rapporteurs and the municipal politicians – yes, I would like to be populistic. I do not think this is the last time we are discussing district policy in Stortinget, on the contrary. I think it might be more important and important when we see all the contacts we get from small municipalities around the country – and they specifically demand roads. The last enquiries are from the municipalities around Gardermoen. The Minister for Environment cannot decide on the location of the third runway and locks all developments in Ullensaker, Nannestad and Eidsvoll. It is clear that we are going to discuss district policy in the future when a government cannot make such important decisions!
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04.ana.ud2667e560	If the Progress Party had a majority in Norway, we would have a changed housing pattern. District policy would have been completely different if the Progress Party had been given a decision, and not least we would have a much lower food supply here in the country. I come from Rogaland, a food company, and I think they would be able to cope with the policy of the Advance Party on the Jären, where there are good earnings and earnings, but in the agriculture that operates in Ryfylke and out in the Rogaland districts, we would see massive closures. Then the question is, what is the problem with these farms that are located in District Norway, which are completely dependent on transfers from the state? And in the case of roads – the Progress Party will be betting on roads in the districts. But doesn't the Progress Party see that with cuts in agriculture there will be abandoned use of these roads leading to?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04.ana.ud2667e567	Before the representative Ib Thomsen receives a reply, the President will remind the representative to make proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04.ana.ud2667e570	I will note that I am going to present the proposals. The representative Tørresdal says she comes from a food state. Yeah, a lot of people say they're from a food group. I come from Akershus, and food is also produced in Akershus. It is clear that the agricultural industry is under pressure, and it is from all sides. It is a development that has been going on for many years, and it is happening throughout Europe. This, I think, is what agriculture needs to adapt to. I disagree with the representative that we in Stortinget should decide where people are going to live. I totally disagree with that. I believe that people themselves need to find out where they want to live, and what the basis of life is in each municipality in order to live there. So the Progress Party agrees – and the Government agrees – that we cannot decide where to live in this country. Then I want to address the suggestions included in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04.ana.ud2667e581	The representative Ib Thomsen has drawn up the proposals he referred to. The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04.ana.ud2667e586	It's not hard to have a heart for this whole long-range and beautiful country. In the Right, we believe that everyone must be able to choose where to live and work, but then the conditions must also be established for such freedom of choice. It is man who must be at the centre, including in regional and regional policy. Norway is a country with great diversity and diversity. It is important to take care of and further develop this diversity. Faith in one's own forces triggers innovation and growth. Right wants to clean up a political yes-position. That is why we wish, among other things: abolishing the State dwelling obligation on agricultural properties. We believe it is most correct that the housing obligation is decided locally. That is why we have also proposed to remove the ban on division in Section 12 of the Soil Act. The prohibition of sharing implies a restriction on the right of landowners to dispose of their own property and creates unnecessary obstacles to new and creative solutions on the farm. In the future, it will be absolutely necessary to focus most on positive aspects and opportunities. In the right, we believe that the message does not add up to such offensive policy. It is important for us to clarify that it is not the state that builds the country, nor in district policy. On the other hand, it is the task of the state to pursue a policy that enables people, businesses and institutions to function and create values for themselves and for society. The aim is to take care of the main features of the housing pattern and trigger value creation in all parts of the country. It is important to develop high-growth regions in all parts of the country and maintain the main features of the housing pattern. This is best done by pursuing an incentive policy rather than a regulatory policy. In the right, a more offensive rural policy, agricultural policy, tourism policy, fisheries policy, education policy and entrepreneurial policy must be opened up. Conditions need to be facilitated by political decisions. The right, together with the Christian People's Party and the Left, has proposed that the provision on social security rights in the event of pregnancy, childbirth and child care for self-employed workers be made as for public employees. By equalising the groups, we promote women's opportunities for participation in business. This is a district friendly and entrepreneurial proposal which, unfortunately, has not received support from the government parties. Equally regrettable is the government's negativity to outsource competition and solutions in OPS in the transport sector. Instead of letting local forces assess the possibilities and make the decisions, we now have a government saying that it is the state that is to decide, and it is the state that is to grant funds. Trust in the local seems to be greater in speech than in practice. Freedom of choice of place of residence requires establishments in all parts of the country. A larger part of the value creation that is created locally must remain in the municipalities. Here corporate tax is an important instrument. It shall stimulate increased activity in the municipality. The right will continue to work for municipalities to get more of the corporate tax. Right will also increase the municipal taxpayer. Our 2007 budget proposal therefore has a higher municipal taxpayer than that of the Government. It allows municipalities to retain a greater proportion of tax revenue for stimulation and for the benefit of municipalities. Of the increased revenue generated by the local government sector in 2005 and 2006, more than two thirds are tax revenue. This shows that the policy of the Bondevik government worked. Less tax has given rise to income and more to well-being. In fact, local government is dependent on more than the size of state transfers. Increased tax revenues resulting from better business framework conditions are very important for municipalities. The settlement in District Norway is not primarily ensured by state jobs and a series of public instruments. The most important thing to ensure growth-intensive regions throughout the country is a business that is able to take care of and create new, profitable jobs. We therefore believe that the improvement of Norwegian business conditions is our main regional policy instrument. Without a business that is able to take advantage of the great potential for value creation, we will be unable to achieve our ambitious goals in this area. The main challenge in the most vulnerable areas is that people are not allowed to make use of local advantages and natural resources, as well as large distance disadvantages due to anti-diversity charges on transport. I would argue that the debate on regional and regional policy is all too often a debate on various support schemes. It is far more important to ensure framework conditions for competitive business. Business tax relief does not threaten well-being, but rather provides room for more well-being through increased value creation. The cake for distribution is growing in both central and district Norway. I think there is a lot of lack of understanding when the government parties consistently have negative features of the Right Tax Policy. Our objective of economic policy is to further develop Norwegian society, provide work for everyone, increase value creation, achieve a fair distribution and stimulate long-term and sustainable development. In contrast to the government parties, the Right believes that competition stimulates creativity and the individual's capacity to act. Competition is exacerbating and is an important driver of the development and improvement of community welfare. At the same time, competition is a prerequisite for Norwegian companies to have international competitiveness, and we have good traditions for that. The historical contact Coast Norway has had with the outside world, I would like to highlight. It is important that we continue to be able to compete internationally. We need to work for more open borders, and we need to conduct a trade policy that enables us to maintain and develop jobs in District Norway. This applies not least to the heavy coastal export industries. The good place of residence is developed by shifting responsibility and authority to the local level to a greater extent than now. The best and most well-being will be when those who are closest to the challenges decide how to use the money. The right is strongly opposed to the creation of a new regional level, which would weaken local autonomy. Fortunately, we now record that there are also forces within the Government and in the government parties that do not want to expand bureaucracy with this unnatural and unnecessary regional level. The most important thing must be to use public resources in areas that benefit citizens directly. In the Right, we would stress that although we want to shift more power to the municipality, it is important that individuals should be confident that they have access to basic public services, such as education, health and care. It is definitely not that the Right wants to bring down good measures or to wind up the instrument. We believe that in some cases public efforts may be necessary, but that has to be a supplement. The instrument should not be used where private can and will do the job without public intervention. In addition, we believe that public instruments should be prioritised and directed towards entrepreneurial activities. Ideas and creativity that lead to new development often need assistance in order to be realised. We are aware of the burden on a society when important corner stone companies are laid down. However, we are sceptical that over time we have built up a significant parallel tool structure. For 2006, regional development and innovation in municipalities and counties are allocated about the same amount as to the State instrument. Our starting point is that employment is the basis for housing, regardless of region or district, and that there is a general need for a good and predictable tool across the country. However, the instrument must be transparent and service-related. To ensure this, we are today promoting, together with the Progress Party, a proposal for a «evaluation of the public instrument for corporate support». It must be right to emphasise that several of our public welfare systems originate from voluntary work. The voluntary sector has a self-esteem. What is created on the basis of voluntary engagement turns out to be an ex post contribution to the creation of a good community. The right considers that defining all societal tasks as part of the state or municipal sector can deprive us of the benefits resulting from a free, rich and strong civil society with voluntary initiatives. We want a social development that means that we take care of and further develop the work that through generations is carried out by idealism. It is important to give the volunteer good conditions. In some cases it means giving more money, but not always. Sometimes it's probably so much about giving freedom, reducing red tape and not putting unnecessary obstacles in the way of the private initiative.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04.ana.ud2667e618	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04.ana.ud2667e622	After all, the right hand side of the Progress Party is the closest party to the Right hand side. As mentioned earlier in articles, the Progress Party has decided the most money to spend for good purposes next year, a total of 23 more oil billions. But it's not about the regional policy instruments. This is where it was cut hard. The progress of the project almost halves the appropriations. They do the same in the agricultural field. District Policy is not exactly a Heart Child for the Right – as I read it – but can the Right be involved in discussing cuts in this magnitude with the Advance Party? Can they at all discuss half of the cuts that the Progress Party wants?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04.ana.ud2667e629	I thought for a moment that the representative asked the wrong party. The right has its own independent policy. I've been explaining our district policy for almost 10 minutes right now. We also have our own economic policy. I understand that the representative wants to work together in the future. The right has said that we want to work for broad civil cooperation – with the Left, with the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party – to get a majority. But in cooperation, everyone has to give, and everyone has to take. One may not lock himself in advance in certain positions before a negotiated situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04.ana.ud2667e638	My question has nothing to do with future cooperation, but it has to do with ideological relations. I record that in this setting, the Right has distanced itself from the Advance Party, as they have written their own introduction in some kind of introduction part. But if we go on in the setting, we see that the Right Party and the Advance Party have signed up in several important areas. As I said in my question to Ib Thomsen, the Progress Party in this setting has made its true face, its strongly liberalized face, where it is the market that will prevail for this part of Norwegian policy. My question to the Right is: Does the Right feel any relationship with what the Progress Party has served in this setting? Do they need to distance themselves from any of this that makes the Progress Party so clearly visible in this setting?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04.ana.ud2667e649	The right is well-planted on its own bones in district policy. My answer will be the same as that of the previous representative: we are on the bourgeois side of the policy. So does the Progress Party. It does the Christian People's Party, and it does the Left in our eyes. That is why we want cooperation. We don't now feel that there's any reason to distance ourselves from any of those parties, but we clearly say that when more parties are going to work together, that has to be negotiated. It's going to be giving and taking, but the starting point has to be positive anyway.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04.ana.ud2667e656	Both in the setting and in the post are right and Holmberg for very many good things. They're for a living agriculture. They are in favour of an active transport policy, and they are in favour of a better charging policy and a better cultural policy. It's good to be for things. But in their government budget, right is $1.5 billion for agriculture, $30,000 for agriculture. annual work. It hits the whole thing that you're writing in the message. In the previous period, it was contradictory that the municipal minister had to go further than reintroducing a differentiated employer’s fee. I expect the representative of Holmberg to be pleased that this has happened. In the last period, a transport policy spokesman, Petter Løvik, said that it was a utopia that one would reach the goal in the NTP of NOK 2 billion more than what the Right had proposed. Now the Right is obviously satisfied that we're able to get to you characterised as a utopia in the last period. You presented a report from a district policy sample a month ago. There you propose certificates for 16-year-olds. Will it go into the same category as the rest of the great words, without anyone following it up?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04.ana.ud2667e665	The President will remind you that all speeches are to be passed through the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04.ana.ud2667e668	The proposal for a certificate for 16-year-olds is contained in a working document drawn up by a district police committee. It is now for consultation in the party. I cannot take a position on this until the hearing bodies have completed. I am a little concerned that the representative highlights that we always talk so nicely and positively about many things. I get that, because I think a positive attitude, a positive goodwill, being a yes-party, creates many basic positive forces in our society. Let go of the farmers, let them be creative, instead of increasing bureaucracy and stopping many positive instruments. One of the things I'm actually most concerned about at the current government is that you put a lid on a lot of what could be a positive initiative. District policy is not just distributing money. The most important thing is to take great action in a holistic context.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04.ana.ud2667e677	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04.ana.ud2667e680	Most of the post-war period has been a continuous period of rural decline. The centralisation is due to several factors. The main explanation is changes in the industrial structure, mainly the strong reduction of employment in primary industries. Active regional and regional policies to reverse development and to counter further centralisation to major cities are important for several reasons: First, it is to maintain living settlements and agglomerations a value in itself. It's a prerequisite that we have living settlements and agglomerations, and that people have real settlement alternatives, which all parties make an important point in this setting. Secondly, it is necessary to preserve the cultural landscape, which, in the longer term, is once again a prerequisite for a living tourism industry. The growing of nature and landscapes has already come a long way. Thirdly, it is necessary to exploit resources locally and regionally. I disagree with the debate on which parts of the country is responsible for value creation. The different parts depend on each other. Although oil and gas activities are mainly carried out along the west coast and northwards, and these are industries that generate large foreign exchange revenues, it is equally wrong to claim that the value creation takes place there, as allegedly it is the Oslo region that accounts for the most important value creation. We depend on each other, and living districts are as important for value creation as living cities and big cities. It is good that the Communication underlines the need to extend and strengthen State instruments. It is very good that we should be able to use a differentiated employer’s fee again in 2007. Actually, it was just supposed to be missing. It becomes a bit pathetic when you in the setting need to give praise to the different governments. Differentiating charges may be the most effective means of boosting employment in rural areas. It is good that we should have an even more conscious investment in infrastructure, such as broadband and increased appropriations for transport. However, if we are to succeed, there are two challenges we have to face. Firstly, we must strengthen the regional political level, because it is the only counterweight we can have against the market liberalism for which the Progress Party is the exponent. If we do not manage to establish a regional political level, which has a size and a structure that is such that important policy areas can be put there, we will lose this battle. That's the first thing that needs to be done. That debate will take place in the next round when we receive the regional communication. Secondly, we need to be able, centrally and to the extent, regionally too, not to think in a sector-by-sector way. We have to think cross-sectorally. The key to success goes through cross-sectoral thinking, and the key to cross-sectoral thinking is through education and research. Higher education has a heavy responsibility as a regional development actor. I often wonder how deeply these actors are concerned about changing the role of national institutions, i.e. institutions that go from being regional institutions to having a regional responsibility to wanting national responsibility. So they want to be universities. The role of a development actor shall be relevant to educational provision and research priorities. Strategic higher education programmes need to be expanded and strengthened. What we said in the research report on closer links between educational institutions and research institutes needs to be implemented. In order to become a good and heavy regional development actor, regional higher education institutions need to rely on regional needs and advantages, both on the research side and on the education side. In the end – I see that time goes by, it does, regardless of whether I stand here – to this with sector thinking: I can give one example, which goes on defence and education. It's a cross of thought that the War School will still be here in Oslo, when we have great opportunities to add it to the district, to Rena. It's a challenge to do. There's an exciting opportunity to do something regional.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04.ana.ud2667e709	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04.ana.ud2667e712	One of the most important instruments in terms of developing new industries, whether central or regional in the districts, is the provision, as a State, of the necessary infrastructure, including: education and research. I'll just briefly read from a committee comment: «Good universities and universities and increased research activity are a prerequisite for overall development in the northern regions.» Here, then, it is clear that knowledge in the northern regions must be invested in order to receive the promise to be made to the northern regions. What does it feel like for the representative of the SV to be part of a government, to be the basis of a government, which actually cuts knowledge?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04.ana.ud2667e725	That was a strange question. First of all, I have to say that it feels good to be part of this government. But it's just a feeling that I have, and I want to express that it's a good feeling. That we cut or reduce and not rate on education is a positive mistake. We're betting on education, from primary, secondary and up to universities and colleges. There has been a deliberate investment in universities and colleges, and we know that the research effort in 2007 is getting higher than it has ever been in the past. When it comes to education and research, it's like, like I'm reading the budget -- now we're talking about the budget, we're not talking about this attitude -- that there's a good and strong commitment, both in primary, secondary and higher education.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04.ana.ud2667e736	I was actually going to take another line, but the answer that came now amazed me so much that I have to follow it up. The representative used much of his intervention to talk about the importance of regional colleges as development actors. I think it's strange, therefore, that the government parties can't be in a position to say that it's positive that some of these also have ambitions to become universities, as long as one of the criteria for becoming a university is that one reflects local business and local peculiarities. But my question is: what has the representative of the government budget discovered in terms of research, which his own finance minister has not discovered, since the Minister of Finance in the State Budget statement in Stortinget said there was a real decline in research efforts? I would like the representative to explain what he has discovered that the Minister of Finance has not discovered.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04.ana.ud2667e745	Let me first dwell a little bit on what has been said initially about universities and colleges. Universities are national institutions with national responsibilities. According to the law and according to what has been said in Stortinget, and what has been written by Stortinget, the higher schools have a clearer regional responsibility. They shall be regional development actors. In this setting we do not discuss this. This is not an option for discussing colleges and universities. This has been prepared in the past. We've defined what it takes to enable the colleges to meet their requirements in order to gain university status, so we're not going to discuss that at all. What we underline, and what we are concerned about in this setting, is that they have regional development responsibility. It is extremely important, because these institutions can become the heavy cross-sectoral players, which can become the very central drivers of regional development.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04.ana.ud2667e752	The representative, Rikham, spoke extensively about the tool and said that this had to be strengthened in order to operate a good district policy. Was it just wishful thinking, or did it mean that it should be decentralized? That's my question number. 1st@item: inlistbox Furthermore, he spoke warmly about strengthening the regional level politically, and that it was important to work cross-sectorally. Although the regional message has not been provided, I heard between the lines here that a good rural policy needs to be developed, a major change in the regional communication needs to be made. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04.ana.ud2667e759	Now we're not discussing the regional message. We'll have reason for that. Perhaps from next Friday we are discussing this regional message, then we know what it says. But I think, as I said, it's important to use heavy regions based on police thinking. We had a power investigation a few years ago that revealed that there has been a shift of power from political bodies to markets, to international bodies and to the judiciary. I think it's important that we now start to turn that development around. If we're going to do that, it's important that we manage to build up regional structures that have a magnitude that allows us to move power and decision-making powers out to the regions. For me, too, this is a question of politicising Norway again, as an equivalent to the liberalisation we have seen in recent years.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04.ana.ud2667e768	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04.ana.ud2667e771	The government has delivered a district announcement that raises the districts and rates on the municipalities. The Christian People's Party agrees, and we support this commitment. The Communication focuses on a strengthening of the local economy, the reintroduction of a differentiated employer’s fee, transport and infrastructure work. Themes such as industrial development, education and research, bioenergy, culture, health and well-being, housing development, location of state enterprises and land use are addressed. It is important for the Christian People's Party to maintain the pattern of residence in our country. Conditions need to be provided for a positive development across the country. We believe that the focus through different instruments must be shifted from relocation to relocation. We need to focus on the enormous possibilities that exist. Exciting and competence-based jobs need to be created by developing knowledge parks and commercial areas in rural areas. This could form networks and clusters necessary to establish cooperation and mutual competence in order to develop new jobs. Such policies will counteract centralisation and build under strong regions. Municipalities are the main provider of basic welfare services in the community. The Christian People's Party is pleased that the escalation of the municipal economy, which began under the government of Bondevik II, is followed up by the sitting government. Furthermore, increased tax revenue allows increased investment in municipalities, resulting from a good tax and industrial policy under the Government of Bondevik II. The Christian People's Party is calling for the long-term escalation plan announced by the Government in the Soria Moria Declaration. If the municipalities are to dare to hire more people in care and education, they are dependent on a predictable economy. Norwegian agriculture is facing a significant change. Internationally, the pressure for more free trade is increasing, and consumers are also more conscious and want both more quality and lower prices. The need for further efficiency and new income opportunities set new requirements and objectives for food and agricultural policy. The Christian People's Party believes that active agriculture in all parts of the country is an important tool for maintaining the main features of today's housing patterns and a living cultural landscape. This implies the need to facilitate a varied use structure that takes into account both traditional family use and the possibility of different forms of cooperation. We must have good arrangements for generational shifts and other acquisitions of agricultural property. The voluntary sector is a prerequisite for a rich life in the districts, and the Christian People's Party believes that idealism and the spirit of virtue should continue to be rewarded and encouraged. I would like to highlight the importance of voluntary involvement in the community of leisure and cultural activities in large parts of our country. In order to maintain this, it is important that we follow up with national leadership. Universities, e.g. has always been and will always be an important matter for the Christian People's Party, and we are very pleased that the Government has met us on this in connection with the state budget. I would like to underline the importance of having a young focus on regional and regional policy. If we're going to make young people move back to the countryside and fewer move from, it's important to pursue an attractive policy for this group. We have to bet on young entrepreneurs. Several young people need to be motivated to take the step from idea to business start-ups. The work of entrepreneurship at school is exciting in this context. Developing ideas and setting up businesses as part of school life is a targeted and necessary work to make us a nation with several entrepreneurs. Norway is a fantastic country with great variation in geography and settlement. We need an offensive urban policy for our cities and a tense rural policy in order to preserve and further develop rural communities and small communities. Fortunately, there are a majority in this Chamber to ensure living settlements throughout the country. That means we have to have different arrangements for the different parts of the country. It does not benefit with the same policy for Utsira as for Oslo. For the Christian People's Party, district policy is important because we believe in living communities. I take up all the suggestions that the Christian People's Party is on.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04.ana.ud2667e794	The representative, Bjørg Tørresdal, has drawn up the suggestions she herself referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04.ana.ud2667e799	It is stated in a note from the Christian People's Party that «it is known that the unemployment of immigrants is greater than that of the rest of the population. It is therefore important that one has an offensive measure, such as wage subsidies’. How has the Christian People's Party considered this measure in terms of funding to the municipalities, to the private sector, and how will this be carried out?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04.ana.ud2667e806	Unemployment is three times as high for immigrants as for the rest of the population. It's worrying, both because it's difficult for the individual immigrants who are looking for jobs again and again, and because society needs the work of immigrants. We think we have to do a lot of things. One of the schemes we proposed was a payroll scheme, because it works, because it provides employment training for an immigrant in a Norwegian workplace, and because it is easier to get a new job when you're already at work.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04.ana.ud2667e811	The representative of the Tørresdal began his contribution by representing the Government for the promotion of transport, for the reintroduction of a differentiated employer’s fee and for the local economy. It is gratifying that one agrees that the level set against which the Christian People's Party was opposed in the previous period is reasonable, and that it is good that a government comes which is offensive and reintroduces DA, and which is not least offensive in relation to the local economy. We only remember one year ago, when the Christian People's Party voted against increasing the investment in the local economy from just under 2 billion kroner to 5.7 billion kroner, which has become 11.6 billion kroner due to all sorts of other circumstances that have helped. I am very pleased that the Christian People's Party joins in all the efforts that the Government has made and that they did not make in the last period. I expect that the representative Tørresdal will also be satisfied with that. Finally, I have a question: I am little surprised when you are now promoting a stepping-up plan in relation to the local economy. Do you think it is credible when you yourself voted against the initiative that has already taken place? Is it not more important to refer to measures than to have a stepping-up plan?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04.ana.ud2667e819	The President will remind you that all speeches must be made through the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04.ana.ud2667e822	I'm going to try to answer a fairly comprehensive question. The Christian People's Party welcomes the escalation of the local economy, and is pleased with an industrial policy that leads to increased tax revenue, which also improves the municipal economy. The municipalities have, as you know, more sources of income, but transfers from the state are important, and we are pleased with the escalation. When we call for an obliging escalation plan, it's to take the Soria Moria statement seriously. In fact, it says that one should be able to afford 10,000 new annual health and care works and that one should have a stepping-up plan for the local economy. If the municipalities are to dare to be as offensive as the Government proposes, they must be sure that there will be no lower steps in the continuation of the municipal economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04.ana.ud2667e829	No more words have been asked for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04.ana.ud2667e832	The left wants a value creation policy for the whole country. City and country are interdependent. Large parts of the value creation takes place in the districts. A modern district policy will be to facilitate the development of business, while at the same time providing services that allow for the creation of diverse and attractive communities. The left will focus in particular on important district industries such as tourism, culture-based business, agriculture and fisheries, and will continue to work on relocating government jobs. The left shares many of the Government's objectives with district and regional policies, but in both strategies and actions, we sometimes choose different paths. With regard to the reintroduction of the differentiated employer fee, we support the Government that it is one of the best and most effective measures in district policy. We are therefore pleased that the work that both the previous and this government have done has been successful. We also support an assessment of the reintroduction of the freight balancing system. The county councils are currently entrusted with a special responsibility for regional development. The left wants this responsibility to be strengthened. In order for one to succeed, the county authorities need a new organisation and increased resources. The left will therefore facilitate the new county, a unitary model that brings together the administrative tasks of the county and county council in a single body and is entrusted with a number of tasks from the state. With a new and stronger unitary organization, the ambition of the Left is that the ownership of the hospitals be moved back to the counties. With a stronger state, municipalities will also have a long-term regional development actor and a stronger partner. The left is concerned that the Government’s proposal for a new division of tasks and new regions will reinforce centralisation, especially when hospitals are not part of the reform. Today, we see comprehensive plans for the centralisation of health services. If a further large number of jobs are centralised in this sector, the population is centralised accordingly. Access to labour becomes one of the main challenges for both enterprises and the public sector in Norway, not least in the districts. That is why we need a more flexible working life. The regulation of the labour market by industrial age is not always in line with the requirements of the knowledge economy for flexibility. At the same time, the law must be adapted to the needs of the new labour market for flexibility and individual solutions. The left wants labour legislation to balance the needs of businesses for rapid transitions with the needs of workers for predictability and security. As mentioned above, the Left is also concerned that growth in the public sector should not be at the expense of the private sector. In the districts, this is a particularly big challenge. In many district municipalities, the municipalities are pay-paying. This weakens the local workforce and often dampens the entrepreneurial spirit. A strong community economy must not become a sleeping cushion for local business. The left will have a diverse focus on the incubator system, Young Entrepreneurship and student businesses. It is particularly important to provide young people with knowledge of starting and running an enterprise or enterprise, and to stimulate older young people to settle in the districts after leaving education. In particular, it is important to put in place measures aimed at women innovators and entrepreneurs. Such a commitment is shown again in the 2007 alternative budget of the Left. The Left lacks a stronger commitment from the Government to clarify the future position and development of the Capital Region. Norway has been characterised by a balanced development between cities and countries, but we now see trends in a stronger centralisation around the capital region. The co-operation administration notified a big deal about this issue just before its departure. As important as confirming the knowledge of why people move from districts, it is to gain new knowledge of what forces drive the metropolitan region and how this region will contribute to balancing its growth in the future. We would therefore encourage the Government to continue working with a capital message. It is also important to look at the regulation of individual industries, such as agriculture and the energy sector. Food production in Norway remains stable but at a lower level of use. It is a challenge to maintain the small uses as residential areas. However, we see an increasing demand for leisure-based use and new industries such as green care. We also see increasing payment capacity for such products. The left in the previous government got a pass for less regulation of small farms. This has led to increased shopping opportunities for small farms, including: for horse-keeping, dog-keeping and other purposes. This leads to rural settlements and diversity. We regret that the Government is now considering reversing to more one-sidedness and devalue large values that are in small use, by tightening up the housing requirement and the turnover of small agricultural properties. We also see that it is possible to turn the demand for heating towards more bioenergy. However, this requires measures such as green taxes and green certificates, as Left will. In addition, it is important to continue working on attitudes in agriculture. Black paint and sutration must not dominate the industry if we are to increase the recruitment. It is also important to point to the importance of the tourism industry for districts, not least as a woman’s workplace. In addition, this is an important export industry. The left therefore calls for a travel life message. Finally, I would say that it is generally little in this message to disagree on. It is essentially a compilation of existing policies in different sectors. The challenge is what is not said, and on which the Government is not clear. When good intentions and practices break, as in this case, intentions become less valuable.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04.ana.ud2667e855	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04.ana.ud2667e858	In the context of the submission of the State budget, the representative Sponheim was concerned that spending half a billion more than the left proposed in his budget could increase interest rates and go badly with the country. The left chose to cut into, was the municipal economy. However, in the district communication, the Left proposes a multi-annual escalation plan for the local economy. Does the representative see that this is an inconsistency, when one shouts at one another that you spend too much money on the municipalities, and in the next round, he makes proposals for a stepping-up plan – and then that at the same time?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04.ana.ud2667e865	There's no inconsistency in this. As we saw throughout the 1990s, much of the escalation in the municipal sector was intentional. It was required that both HVPU reform and other reforms should be implemented here. The left is worried that we don't have a plan here. At the same time, it is a clear signal that we agreed with the first submitted, before new money came – wherever they came from. But we want to slow down a little bit, because we're afraid that an increase in interest rates will have far worse consequences for the local economy. 1 pst. interest rate increase will mean 800 million. kr increase – versus 500 million. kr as proposed by the Government. It'll be heavy for the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04.ana.ud2667e874	No more words have been asked for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04.ana.ud2667e877	In the Soria Moria Declaration, the Government promised to implement a district policy pledge. The ambitions of this promise are clear. People are going to have real freedom of choice when it comes to choosing a place of residence, and we're going to use the whole country to strengthen value creation. This will contribute to the overall objective of maintaining the pattern of residence in all parts of the country, a goal of which is great upswing in the Stortinget. The content of the policy to achieve these objectives was clarified in today’s key messages. The effort is linked to three key strategies: 1st jobs where people live2. equivalent service provision3. attractive places The government builds these three strategies on all the opportunities that exist in District Norway, all the fires that will and can be in District Norway, and not least all the women and young people who want in District Norway. District and regional policies must always be a mix of action through sectoral policies and specific rural and regional policy instruments. It is in the interaction between so-called broad and narrow district policies that we can give people in District Norway equal opportunities and thus real freedom of choice in terms of residence. Regional policy, understood as spatial policy, concerns all parts of the country, but the challenges lie primarily in strong centralisation. The conditions for maintaining the main features of the housing pattern have changed in recent decades. In the past, several children were born in the district municipalities. Thus, these municipalities could maintain the settlement, seas with net relocation. Now the children's allies are more evenly low across the country, and thus the district councils have marked the relocation stronger in the last decade. Several municipalities will therefore experience a decline in the population in the future, seas without relocation. At the same time, we are in a period of high activity in the Norwegian economy, both in domestic demand and in industry and construction. Past experience suggests that centralisation is increasing in peak economic periods due to increased supply of jobs in larger urban areas. At the same time, business outside the larger urban areas may have problems with labour supply. The strong economic growth in recent years has thus contributed to the strengthening of a long-term centralisation. Against this background, the Government emphasises strong regional and regional policy efforts, even when there is strong growth, precisely to address the vulnerability of the areas concerned in the short or longer term, related to trends in demographic, employment, industrial structure and the level of competence. It is this Government that is taking seriously the district and regional message. The Government proposes that the concrete implementation of the Regional Policy promise be implemented progressively each year in the annual budgets. Therefore, the Storting Communication is an action programme for the entire ageing period. We have already delivered much in the budgets for 2006 and 2007. We have strengthened the local economy significantly. We are now extremely pleased to be able to reintroduce the differentiated employer's fee from 1 January. Transport policy is strengthened. We are complying with the national transport plan. We have a good farm settlement in place. We have a strong commitment to culture and volunteering. The Northern Region Strategy, which was presented on Friday, is in practice a system of district policy. In addition to these broad bets, one will notice that we are strengthening the narrow bets. The importance of small communities has been duly noted around the country. Culture and nutrition are provided with an additional puff, site development is made clear in a way that has not been done before. Under these minor efforts, there is a belief that we must build on local initiatives, on the fires. It's just by building on all the strong and good forces that will and can, we can give people real freedom of choice in terms of residence.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04.ana.ud2667e906	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04.ana.ud2667e909	Differentiated employer’s fee is the best district policy instrument, said the Council of State. The whole Storting agrees that it is the most accurate district policy system we have. So my question is: will the government's government be working closely to reduce the employer's fee for the whole country, which would have been a good tool for the whole of District Norway in terms of exports, and would strengthen District Norway and possibly prevent relocation?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04.ana.ud2667e917	There has been considerable work to reintroduce the differentiated employer’s fee. In the hall here today there has already been a bit of discussion related to who will be responsible for what. I just think we should record that there has been a great deal of effort by several governments to get this in place, and we got the differentiated employer's fee back in a larger part of the country than many had dared to hope for. This is an important step, given that both the Progress Party and the Government are clearly in agreement, namely that this is perhaps our most effective regional policy instrument. Now I think we're going to enjoy the rates we've been able to negotiate with ESA, and it's seasily the ones that form the basis of the government's further policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04.ana.ud2667e924	There are people locally who are the best people to develop their own communities. It says the government parties in their introductory remark in the district announcement. I have a strong feeling that in the Government there is a long way between theory and practice in this field. The government could have proved its good intentions of local self-government when the Stortinget last week dealt with the Right's proposal for a small scale hydropower production package, but neither the State Council of Enoxen nor the government parties would dare or delegate the concession authority to the municipalities. It must be a cross of thought for the Government when even SV rapporteur Arne Vinje in Vinje municipality in Telemark today goes out on the radio with his concern about the government's lack of confidence in local authorities. So my question remains: does the government only have party speeches? Or can the Council of State give concrete examples of what delegations and what measures can municipalities look forward to?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04.ana.ud2667e933	The Government fully agrees with the Right that it is an important objective to ensure the greatest possible degree of local freedom of action. It comes to expression through a number of things. Let me first mention an area where we were very amazed at the Right approach, precisely because the Right is normally occupied with local freedom of action, and then I think of the local economy, which is one of the most fundamental to give local authorities space for action. During the previous ageing period, the municipalities were severely pressured because of poor municipal economy. It also meant that the room for action was locally pushed into some of the most important areas of everyday life. The government is absolutely committed to contributing to its increased local action space.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04.ana.ud2667e942	The Council of State referred to the word ‘ildsjel’ several times in its article. It is a good word – a word of strength and direction both in agriculture, tourism and industrial development, but not least in the voluntary sector. The Christian People's Party is very pleased that a number of cuts proposed by the Government were reversed in the 2007 state budget. It was the voluntary nature of the agreement that was made. But I would like to ask the Council of State: What signals did the Government give to all the fires in the voluntary sector when it proposed to cut a government budget where you had so much money to go with – cut into small and large measures in the voluntary sector? Just to mention one thing, the government proposed a cut of $6 million. kr for the construction of assembly houses and prayer houses, and it is construction that is largely built with hard work, where a tiny state grant is given. What kind of signals did the fires get?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04.ana.ud2667e949	It is nice to note that the Christian People's Party and the Government agree on the importance of voluntary action. That is why we are now looking forward to moving on to work on our own big message about volunteering. It will give us an opportunity to talk about volunteering in a broad sense – whether we are talking about church, district policy, cultural life or any other sector of society. I feel absolutely convinced that the Government sends the right signals to volunteer in a number of areas. We take volunteering seriously. Not least, we see that through this message, where we are quite clear that if we are to succeed in our district policy, we are totally dependent on building up under the will, building up under all the fires that we fortunately have around in our long-range country.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04.ana.ud2667e954	The centre party says that they want to invest in family farming, and that developing agriculture is important for rural settlements. After the adoption by the Left in the previous government of changing the concession and housing regulations, we now see that more and more families want to buy small farms in the districts. But the Center Party has now announced that they will reverse the Concession and Dwelling Rules. Is it true that the Centre Party is opposed to families who want to buy into agriculture and who have new ideas, and is this just for those like me, for example, who have odd rights?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04.ana.ud2667e959	It's very gratifying that many people want to live in the village. We can see that, among other things. through a significant demand for small uses. One of the things that has made me the most happy in the later years is to see that you take action locally to help small farms get into the market. We know that there are many people who have been sitting on small farms without having been used to a great extent. We have good examples, for example: from Telemark, where people have really taken hold, talked to people and helped them get into the market one way or the other. That is an approach that I think is very good. I would like to encourage several municipalities that are struggling with the fact that they have many small farms that are not in operation, to see if there are opportunities to get them out, so that all those who want small farms can have the opportunity to enjoy the rural life.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04.ana.ud2667e966	No more words have been asked for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04.ana.ud2667e969	I am pleased that we have received a comprehensive report on regional and regional policy which is offensive and which clearly reflects the objectives of the Soria Moria Declaration. From a number of quarters we can hear critical voices claiming that district policy has been completely wasted and failed. I travel a lot in District Norway, and I totally disagree that we have had a failed district policy, although we have to do more, especially for those areas that are struggling because of conditions that the towns themselves do not have. We have a lot of living and vital settlements and coastal communities that are responsible for significant value creation. This is where important products are produced which are requested nationally and internationally. Here I am thinking not only of products from the primary industries, such as fish and agricultural products, but also of other wanted goods. As an example, I can mention the Furulate in Lyngen in Troms, which is a liti building with a fantastic industrial environment. Lyngen is also a municipality for which the international research community has taken an interest. Here, the research community in the United States has actually established itself, through MIT-FabLab Norway. The list of good examples is much longer. So don't come and say that it's impossible to get anything else in the countryside. But it means that the public is involved and facilitates through an active district policy. What would our country look like without vital districts and upstream primary industries? What would we have had as a basis for the ever-growing tourism industry? What would we have to show the tourists if the towns were deserted? It is said that no one can decide where people will live, but it is true that if there are no acceptable framework conditions in place for the districts, people cannot live in our towns. Therefore, politicians cannot waive responsibility for the settlement and then leave vital interests for countries and people to the market alone. That is why a comprehensive rural policy is so important, where not only the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs has a responsibility, but the whole political and administrative environment must be on the road. We who live in viable rural areas with young and active people, see that people thrive and contribute a lot of voluntary effort to the countryside, but people don't live in such places at all costs. Also people in the districts want to take part in some of the people in more central areas view as the most obvious, and they need good communication offers. I notice that the major distinction between the Advance Party and the other parties lies in the area of regional policy. In the setting, the Progress Party points out the state's responsibility for Oslo as the capital. This is what I believe the state is already doing in a convincing way, which is also a political consensus to do. At the same time, the party is moving towards looking at the cost of centralisation, and they will leave to the market to manage district policy. This tells us about a party that doesn't have a particular sense of values in the districts. Nor can the Progress Party have taken on board the fact that there is a great and mutual dependence between the city and the country in our country. We're going to hope that the Progress Party will never have the power to implement its rural degradation, especially at a time when so much will be done in the northern regions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04.ana.ud2667e997	Of course, the previous speaker, Mr Arnesen from Troms, is quite right. It is possible, to the maximum extent possible, to get something in the villages, as he expressed it. The progress party used to have a little slogan, which actually tells a lot about this issue. The slogan was as follows: The future is not adopted, it is created. And that's precisely why the distinction in this policy area that the previous speaker had in mind is, to the most extent, going between the Progress Party and the parties on the socialist side. District policy, in our view, is not about politicians who travel land and beach around and promise money, and grant money to maintain industries that, in part, have no future. What is at stake, on the other hand, is to apply the positive driving forces that exist in the market, and then there is no doubt that a lot of industries and a lot of jobs could be created precisely in the districts, on that basis. The problem today is that the entrepreneurs in the districts, the rich in ideas in the districts, who have opportunities and prerequisites for creating new jobs, creating a future in the districts, are faced with bureaucracy, with regulation, with protection plans – public governance, in other words, from above and below – which hinders development and slows down the creation of new jobs in the districts. In that case, it is not useful to fall behind, as the socialists do, and to distribute all good alms, because district policy is primarily about facilitating these jobs. This is best done by building infrastructure, whether we're talking about communications, good roads in the districts, or we're talking about educational institutions that create competence and knowledge in the districts. It is far, far more important than overconfidence – which I often am amazed that some politicians have – to the self-government of politicians in this area. Addressing the infrastructure, resolving regulation and facilitating the creation of industries and jobs in the districts will also create jobs. But that's the opposite of the socialist, state-driven model, where you distribute money that doesn't necessarily lead to forward-looking industries. So I would like to comment on a matter that also goes into this area. On Friday, the Government presented its Northern Territory Strategy. It is, as usual, well characterized by visions, good intentions and even more visions, but of course very little concrete – nothing concrete, really, that is relative to the rhetoric that has been led by the Government in the past. The Prime Minister stated that knowledge should be at the hub of the Northern Territory Initiative. But it's the same prime minister, from the same government, who cuts on research, who cuts on development, and then you talk about the good public measures again, instead of doing what should be obvious to start the bet in the north that we need, that's to open up test drilling and open up to use the resources in the north. North Norway does not need new measures, new subsidies, new public schemes. The only thing North Norway needs, like any other region in this country, is to be allowed to use the natural resources you have, rather than everything is centralized and centralized. Then you do well without public alms. It applies in the northern regions, and it applies in all regions of this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04.ana.ud2667e1010	The District and Regional Communications are well received, and one offensive case from the Government is now relieving the other. On Friday, the Annual Report on the tasks of the new regional level will be presented – as proposed by the Government. We're probably going to experience that someone thinks it's being transferred too much. Others would think it's being transferred for a few tasks. I look forward to the debate, and I would argue that the forthcoming strengthening of the regional level, currently best known as the county municipality, will obviously be important to strengthen the overall regional and regional policy. I want to say it this way: if we want to make more use of the country, if we want to make more use of the whole country, we also need to make more use of the county. It's competent, it's popular, but it needs more muscles. Perhaps the large city councils with strong centres feel that they are doing well on their own, but for District Norway the county council plays an important role. And the role of the county council in district policy is greatly underestimated, especially by some who in a way like to present the county council as something that should be replaced, preferably disappear. We believe that the county council, including through new regions, can be exploited and become a very important player in the area of regional policy. What's very important is that the county councils are able to cooperate well with the municipalities. This is how the governance reform will help to bring opportunities and money closer. It is also important to establish cooperation, a partnership, between municipalities and county councils, which are as bureaucratic as possible, but which are powerful and good. Now I know best of Uppland County, as I come from there – not from the county municipality, but from Uppland. I have seen many good examples of active cooperation and interaction between county councils and municipalities and also private actors, and not least – that is the most important thing – I have seen many good results. Of course, the fact that the county is both an activist and an important competence actor gives extra opportunities. The distribution and dissemination of competences is important. Here, the county council plays an important role through secondary schools, through the establishment of learning centres, as there are many examples, and in the purchase of decentralised higher education facilities. Education is important. The role of the county council is also important, again often in cooperation with others, as regards the establishment and support of greenhouses, business areas, knowledge parks and even expert centres. In Oppland, the county council, together with major national actors, has established Uppland Innovation Centre, as the only one in its kind in the country. This has become one door to key actors, such as: Innovation Norway, SIVA, Norway’s Research Council and, of course, the county’s own apparatus. Also within broadband, the county council in Uppland has made a great effort, has been initiating, and has helped to ensure that the coverage has now increased from 25 pst. from 2002 to 90 p.m. today. The county has been involved in projects in the field of national parking and in many other projects in the field of culture and experience industries. All of this is important regional policy efforts. The 'Fritt Zum' pilot project, which seems to be a bad project, or at least has tried to take all the money from it, has particularly contributed to the increased cooperation of the municipality of Oppland and has been successful more and more. In conclusion, there are many good examples of a policy that gives people greater freedom to live where they want to. We've heard about municipal economy, and not least we could mention social relations. But the most important thing is that people want to live in the countryside. It was impressive to experience the young people and youth organisations who came to our hearings, to experience the faith of the future, the optimism and not least the creativity and the power of action that these young people stood for. It affirms in a convincing way the great resources that District Norway represents for us as a nation.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04.ana.ud2667e1028	The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04.ana.ud2667e1031	With the ‘Heart for the whole country’, we are now putting in place tools for active district development. There is a cross-political consensus that Oslo and large cities need state support to address the challenges they face. That's good. But I wish there was an equally broad consensus on the same with regard to our districts. There's a lot of value creation going on here, and that's where we have the areas that make Norway an attractive destination. The districts are doing well in many ways, but for a long time, the country has linked the area without sufficient compensation to areas that are being restricted, and too little is being provided to allow people in the districts to use their territory to create both housing and new industries. I can mention an example from the Ytterøya in Tronheimsfjorden, where I myself come from. About the entire island merged to establish a marina, supported by the municipality, as a good development on that island. But the county council went in and overestimated the community's support, on the basis that there was a measure established for the near sea. There was a refusal of an application to establish a marina, because it was too close to the sea! Regulation is good, but it is also important to have a good proportion of public health in the context of regulation. I am pleased that great emphasis is placed on the role of municipalities, and in particular the county council, in regional development. In Nord-Trøndelag, the county has a very central role to play in a team game with the municipalities in order to facilitate development. In many contexts, municipalities are becoming too small to raise the voice against central authorities. Here the county council is important as the municipality's best friend. After hearing the Right Representative describe the county municipalities, it shall be a pleasure to bring Right up to the Nord-Trøndelag to show how central the county council is in the development work there and how much excitement it is about the work the county council is doing. Relying on the development of society to the market alone is irresponsible. We see that the market is not able to give people an equivalent offer everywhere in the country. We see it in broadband, we see it in telephony, we see it in TV signal, progress that should initially be decentralizing. Back to the Outer Island, Trodheimsfjord's pearl, a paradise on earth that city people love to travel to when they're going on recreation. But also a paradise is not a permanent place if the ferry is laid down and you have to calm down, if the local store is closed, if it is not made better by society for food development. If they are to be able to offer a viable area in the future, they must have the help of a robust municipality, an facilitating county municipality and a state that sees the value of such sites. Now we have such tools. We have a government that sees the value.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04.ana.ud2667e1050	I am pleased that we have had a good debate on St.meld. No 21, District Notice. The Minister of Local Affairs referred to part of the main challenges of the Communication. I will refer them in their entirety. It is a broad approach to rural policy and a new approach to rural policy. The purpose of the notification is: leveraging the value creation potential in the districts to provide access to jobs, services and welfare services to create newoptimism and new future cities and agglomerations should be attractive housing for young people, and especially for women small and medium-sized cities should be attractive as an alternative to large cities. The basis for this has already been established through a strong increase in the local economy. The municipalities are the great welfare and service producer, and without them being powerful, we cannot succeed in the new district policy. Municipalities shall be a local business development facilitator. A promise has been made for new measures in the field of industrial development. Innovation Norway shall be strengthened. Seed funds must be strengthened. Municipal food funds shall again be set up as necessary start-up funds. And we're going to have a new programming period for business environments. Agriculture has been given a boost. We have hope that the cultural landscape can be maintained, and that the gardens that keep the cultural landscape up to date find it viable to continue to be so. We see the possibility of getting a new investment in travel. I agree with the municipal minister, who said that without this foundation, the Northern Territory operation would have been difficult to speed up. Just the basis we've gone through the new district announcement gives hope that the North Region bet will really produce fruits. It's created new optimism. There's created new optimism around the districts. We're gonna take care of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04.ana.ud2667e1087	It is approaching the end of the debate, but I have to make a visit to a few of the representatives. The party's Social Violence Vedum took his mouth too full when, in response to my reply, he claimed that the Right 'in happy order' was talking about strengthening the county council. I think the Center Party should stick to the truth. The right has clear policies at two levels of administration, and the role of the county council shall only be to carry out supervisory and supervisory tasks. This is something completely different than what the Center Party claims. I can refer to the Right Programme for 2005-2009, where it says: ‘The review of municipal decisions shall be limited to the review of legality and the appeal of proceedings. Right will reduce the number of county offices.’» I just want to recommend that the representative, Mr Slagsvold Vedum, reads the Right Party program. Our policies take local democracy seriously. It is to the municipalities that the population has belonging and loyalty. The region is remote from most people. So a little visit to Rolf Rekovam's line. I thought almost I had heard the error when the representative claimed that the right counterfactual had agreed to the implementation of a differentiated employer's fee. I have to ask the representative to substantiate such a claim, because the facts are that the right has always claimed that a differentiated employer's fee is the best district policy instrument we have. We were in a government that worked hard to get it reinstated. I am pleased that Åslaug Haga so corrected the impression, saying that there was a great deal of effort from several governments. I wish that the representative Rikvam here could be more despicable. In conclusion, I would like to say that I am somewhat surprised at the warm defence of the county council that we have received here and now, especially at the end of the debate. It's pretty clear that it's approaching December 8th.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04.ana.ud2667e1103	First to Kari Lise Holmberg. I have not mentioned the Right and differentiated employer's fee at all. I think there was one sentence I used, and it was that I thought it was pathetic when the different parties and groupings need to give praise to their governments. That was what was important in connection with this setting. That's all I've said about a differentiated employer's fee, except that I said it was a positive and good tool. I have not mentioned the Right in this regard. It must be a gross misunderstanding that I have meant something that the Right was counterproductive. As I said, I have not mentioned this. Then to what I asked for the floor for. That's two things. Firstly, the proposal to focus on the centre of competence. I think it's very good, and I think it's very right. It's a new competence center for district development we're talking about, a new competence center, a new tool. I think that's right and reasonable. In the attitude of the government parties – this is going to be the municipal minister – we don't go into localization, because we don't have the prerequisites for that, but at least we're trying to give strong leadership on what should be the basis for localization of such a centre. We say it has to be linked to a good educational environment that also has close relations with a research and development environment. It must be leading. Then I want to say for my own part that if it turns out that we have a lot of good applications and there are many good arrangements that are put on the table later on, I don't think we should lock ourselves to one – if it turns out that there are many exciting and good projects that are presented and we think that this will matter for the further work. So finally, there is a proposal from the Progress Party, the Right Party, the Christian People's Party, and the Left to Young Entrepreneurship. Let me say that this is a matter we had up in Stortingen in the previous period, after a Document No. Eight proposals from SV. There was a broad political consensus that this is an important measure. It is referred to in the message, and it is referred to in the vote of the majority. This work is in progress. The government has already increased the appropriations in 2006. Both the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the Ministry of Economic Affairs have committed increased appropriations to Young Entrepreneurship. In addition, the Ministry of Knowledge has launched a strategy plan for Young Entrepreneurship, including one. discusses the question of creating a separate programme in secondary school for Young Entrepreneurship. It is a concrete follow-up to document No. The 8-proposal launched by SV. So we don't feel the need to vote for this once again, because what was a broad political consensus in the previous period is about to be realized, in the process of being fulfilled. I therefore do not fully see the need for this proposal. But I record that someone obviously needs it still.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04.ana.ud2667e1119	The government has announced that it will put the north areas high on the political agenda. Barents' cooperation and work in the Arctic Council is continuing, and a separate North-Area Strategy under the name of Barents 2020 is on the steps. The Left wishes to welcome the government's efforts for the northern regions. We emphasise the importance of focusing on regional and local anchoring in this process. The left will stress the importance of the need for local and regional elected representatives to have a central role in the development of the region, inter alia. through the National Sub-Committee. The situation of indigenous peoples is exposed and unexplained in the region. The left assumes that developments in the northern regions, and not least the development of natural resources from land and water, are taking place in close cooperation with the indigenous communities and other key indigenous actors. Left will facilitate value creation locally along the coast where resources are available. We therefore want a project to assess how women, with their experience and knowledge, will have a more central role to play in this development. We want an initiative to investigate and establish trials on microcredit and other measures specifically aimed at women entrepreneurs. The left will consider a specific programme to create more jobs in the national community, not least in relation to the creation of small and medium-sized enterprises, which is important in order to promote a varied nutrient base. It is also important that the public participates in the development and provision of new studies aimed at the industries in which it is to be invested. This is important in order to create a local and regional anchoring and dampen up for relocation. Both the Barents Secretariat and the Barents Institute have taken initiatives here that are important to follow-up. There are today about 80 Norwegian establishments in the Russian part of the Barents region. The jobs are close to 1 000 annual jobs. The Russian part of the Barents region today appears to be an exciting and growing market, including for Norwegian players. The emergence of a new group of entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs could promote moderate political forces and bring about social cohesion that generates stability. Cross-border cooperation has long traditions. People across the border are growing, and many have family on both sides. Being able to visit their parents and children when you want to, is considered a matter of course. There is therefore a great need for simpler visa rules for people in this area. Civil society is very important for the construction of democracy. The Left will stress the importance of providing framework conditions for such cooperation to non-governmental organisations in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04.ana.ud2667e1136	There has been a lot of talk about district policy today. The retributions to the Progress Party are quite strong. One has said that we don't have a district policy. One has said that we are opposed to something happening in the districts. I've traveled a lot around Sogn and Fjordane. I've been talking to a lot of business people there. I haven't met a single person who doesn't feel like we're responsible for what's absolutely necessary for these companies to survive. If we are certain that industrial or commercial workplaces are also in the districts, then we must have a policy that will enable these businesses to survive. When you look at what is being proposed today to – it may be bad to use the term – thin money out of those who run business around the district and who say they will kill them if this continues, I wonder: What is it a talk about when you say that you have such a great business policy and district policy? I think one should be careful not to have a whole district policy. It's a debt that no one will be able to provide, in my opinion. I also record that the Government has written in the Soria Moria statement that they will create a decentralised hospital supply, including a hospital hospital. shall ensure access to the necessary health services, such as: the supply of food. Then there's a paradox that one in Sogn and Fjordane is about to shut down maternity wards. Now, at Christmas, there's a signal that they're going to be shut down during the big holidays – and maybe in the summer holidays next year. It is in stark contrast to what is stated in the Soria Moria Declaration. I also thought it was amazing that the representative Reikvam twice told the Storting something quite different than what the Minister of Finance himself has been doing in Stortinget and told me about reductions in research and education. I also record that several representatives have now begun to use the word ‘communities’. It's going to be interesting to see if this is what becomes the new regions that we've heard so much about, especially from the Working Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04.ana.ud2667e1151	‘Heart of the whole country’. Taste the words! ‘Heart of the whole country’. So we have a government and a population of people who want to use their cancers all over the country. That means they want to use their cancers where I live, in Lyngen. They will use the forces where you live, in their home municipality, in their home country. We who live in District Norway now feel that we are being heard. Now we're being taken seriously. Now there's someone who cares about us. It's actually the most important thing, that someone cares about us living in the districts. So there's a couple of things that you might not have done historically since World War II. There are some grips now to build up the country in a new and modern way. We need to further develop viable small communities. We're going to further develop what's been built after the war. This is now to be further developed into a modern future. There are many good examples of how the districts work. There have been many examples in this debate today. And what does that show? Well, it shows that people live where they have opportunities to create their jobs, where they have opportunities for their children to have it safe and have good growing conditions, and when the afternoon comes, they have opportunities for a cultural life that is wide and wide and that can be with and further develop them as whole people. Then we have some municipalities where – when you get old and the day you need care – there are people, there are some hands that make us, who are still young, feel a sense of security by having grandmother in the care center. This society is what this government will further develop so that people living in the districts, once again, feel that this is important. By having opportunities to further develop these communities, young people move out to the countryside, because they want to experience the good life. For various reasons, but among others: Because we feel that we are being heard, that we have someone who cares, new jobs are being created around the country. The course is selected, the direction is correct – stand on!
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04.ana.ud2667e1168	Several participants in today's debate have called for no decision to be taken on where to live. That is right, but it is possible to adopt measures that make it attractive to live throughout the country, including in District Norway. A living local democracy is the foundation of the people's rule, and then we need well-functioning, safe and identity-creating communities. I am therefore pleased that this government will strengthen its efforts towards local communities and regions. The main effort has been made by the Government in relation to a strong strengthening of the local economy in two budget rounds. This contributes to a positive development that makes it possible for more people to continue living in the districts. The smallest communities see opportunities through the small community initiative, and several municipalities have taken up the challenge and are seeking to establish a national centre for district development. This is in line with the fact that the district communication focuses on using the whole country and challenges municipalities to commit themselves to creating attractive communities, to creativity and not least to exploit the cultural diversity that is also found in the districts. A district competence centre will create jobs and will contribute to the provision of skills – not only in large, central places, which have been the trend towards now, but also in district Norway. The government says with this that it wants to harness knowledge that exists in the districts. The government attaches great importance to the important role of different knowledge environments in growth, innovation and development in the districts, and that this must benefit all parts of the country. The knowledge that exists needs to be coordinated, and new knowledge needs to be created. This is district development. I guess it's not to avoid that from the government's side, the North Region Initiative is a strategy for developing the districts, and that's very good. I believe it is important to see the establishment of a centre of competence for district development as an important contribution to increasing the space of small communities in the knowledge society, and this is now set on the political agenda. I look forward to the establishment of this center, and of course I want you to choose to locate this in the north. However, regardless of location, this will represent a great opportunity to develop district-related knowledge building as a mutual partnership between central and less central regions of the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04.ana.ud2667e1179	Maybe the most exciting thing that's happened here today, is that one for the first time in a long time has heard a number of posts from the Workers' Party where we talk about the county council. Then there is reason to believe that it is approaching the presentation of a big message on what was formerly called regional reform, but also – when it was hottest – was called the biggest democracy reform in recent times. I doubt that this is a term that will be attached to the message that will be submitted on Friday. The starting point for the whole discussion was that there was a broad political consensus that the county council, as we know it today, does not have the content and legitimacy that makes it reasonable to continue as it is. Then there are different conclusions to that problem. Some of us thought that the natural answer to that was to put down the county council and transfer that power to the municipalities, who both need to expand their responsibilities, and have not least legitimacy and great population disintegration. Others had a solution where a point of large regions with major new tasks was to return to the regional level. When someone now hears the posts and looks at the leaks that have been in the media lately, there is every reason to believe that the big message that comes on Friday is going to be a necrologer over the county municipality. Because it will be the start of a completely new and necessary debate, namely a debate on what is now really left as the only option, a two-tier model. In this way the posts today have been necessary, because it is always the case that in front of a necrologist also a memory hour is held, and in a memory hour it is the usual courtesy to speak nicely of the person whom the necrologist should mention.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04.ana.ud2667e1189	There was no way how good it sounded, this with the «heart for the whole country». I have basically seen it in the past, too, through the election program, but I now completely managed to see that this was the context. It's a compilation of a lot of political consensus that lies in this district announcement, but it's shadowing some of the important issues. There the representative Höie is right: we have already heard the leaks, and they are not entirely in line with the strong statements that came at least before we started working on the message that will come on Friday. There's a topic here that hasn't been so much up in the debate, and it's the centralization force around the capital, with the will to move out state jobs. The previous government was willing to move out existing state jobs, while the current one says that they are only willing to move out new state jobs. This contributes to creating uncertainty also around defence facilities; it contributes to creating an economy that is becoming more centralised and, in the Left's view, it is not good district policy to levy increased taxes locally, and then to expand kindergartens into central districts. In fact, most districts have full child care coverage. It's the big cities that need it. This shows in many ways that good intentions and practices are broken. Finally, I would like to say a little about this with the obligation to live, as it is announced can be reversed. Before this was introduced by the previous government, many uses were empty – they were used for two weeks a year – but after the relief of the previous government, many of these small users were put to sale, and they came into use. The earth lay there – it was of course in use – but there was no activity around it. Now today's government announces that they will introduce a tighter housing obligation, and I have a bit of difficulty in understanding that many of the small farms where people do not live today are being put out for sale. It turned out that that didn't happen until we introduced those reliefs. I was also partly a member of the housing service, and believed in my first period of municipal administration that housing obligations could be an opportunity, but we saw over time that this was something that did not work. On the other hand, I think what is being announced in this district announcement, with more active use of the House Bank and start-up loans, is much more offensive and in many ways a better way to give younger people an opportunity to get a living or a small use.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04.ana.ud2667e1202	I would like to comment on a few moments in the contribution of the representative Holmberg in relation to the county and county council. What's the big difference between the Right and Government parties, the Christian People's Party and the Left, is the middle-level vision. Everyone's talking about having an intermediate level, but the question is whether you're going to have a middle level chosen by the people, through the county council, or whether you're going to have an middle level. We want to have a popular middle level – not that it should be a state that has all the power in each region, no matter how large it is, but that it should be elected to meet people in everyday life, and that makes elections every four years and takes responsibility for the decisions you want. So I do not see that there is any difference in relation to the bureaucracy/bureau critique between the Right and us. I believe that the Right's position is initially more bureaucratic, as they want to entrust power to the official as opposed to the elected representatives. So there's a difference in opinion, and my analysis is a little bit different than right-hand analysis of what the position is. So at a differentiated employer's fee. I have to admit that we have become so interconnected in the government parties that it is easy to make mistakes. It was probably I who was in that theme and not Reikvam, so I can take on the blame for it. The reason I was in that was that the financial situation had to be used in a cooperation between the municipal committee and the financial committee in the last period to stress the importance of the government taking over and working vigorously to reintroduce the differentiated employer's fee. There was a cross-political work here in Stortinget where we were able to put that pressure in place. That is why I made that comment. Then I would also like to make a little comment to the representative Starheim of the Progress Party and Sogn and Fjordane, who feels a little bored when we say that the Progress Party does not conduct a district-friendly policy. I would then like to mention one theme, agriculture, where the Progress Party has cut DKK 5.7 billion in its own draft budget. What does not agriculture mean for a country such as Sogn and Fjordane, both in relation to the employment in agriculture, in relation to the food industry, which is linked to agriculture, and in relation to the current level of investment in Sogn and Fjordane – the investment in tourism and business start-ups in connection with tourism? We only go to the facts when we attack the Progress Party and their district policy. We're just looking at the facts, what they're proposing, and then we see that it turns negative, for example. for a province such as Sogn and Fjordane.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04.ana.ud2667e1217	The representative Höie, like the rest of the Right, seems to be daunting about what's being presented on Friday, listening carefully and trying to analyze and guess a little bit up to what's going on. So I get to say it so that while we're waiting for the message, it was at least high message from Mr. Heyie! To present my little review of the county council's important efforts in district policy and the possibilities to make maximum use of this level of management in order to make us feel good in the whole country and have a good district policy, to perceive it as a necrolog and even to have associations to participate in a memorial, I think is strong. If I may allow myself to do so, I would say that if Höie were to go to his whip and ask for replacement on Friday because he is going to a funeral, I think that's a little thin justification. What is being presented on Friday will fully show that we are serious about the administrative reform and popular governance, and that we will also look at what is still called county municipality. And Uppland County Municipality, from which I mentioned some glittering examples – it is also called Uppland County Municipality – has a very large potential in itself, which it would be pointless for us with our stand not to actively use in district policy. The message will show that we see that possibility, along with the many other possibilities contained in the task message being presented. Then to the Progress Party. I hear the Progress Party moved a little for every time they talk about municipal structure. We're all in favour of a good municipal structure, but we've all been so far in Stortinget that what's going to happen is going to happen on a voluntary basis. I think I hear that the Progress Party is no longer on the volunteer line. If they were to gain power there in the farm, I don't ignore that they would put power behind the words and use coercion.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04.ana.ud2667e1226	Rolf Rikvam has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04.ana.ud2667e1229	We obviously have a slightly different tradition in our party than they do in the Right. We're talking about things and people even though they're not necrologs, and when we talk about the matter very much, it's because we know that something exciting is coming, that will drive this forward. So there we have a slightly different tradition, but now let's live with it. Then to Starheim. I have to comment that he claims that we accuse them of not having any policies. Let me then read what the Progress Party writes in its comments: ‘These members indicate that the market regulates the geographical distribution of jobs.’ And on the other hand, ‘These members are of the opinion that the market and the free choice of people will also govern the pattern of residence in the future, and will emphasise that this will be socio-economically profitable regardless of which industries and industries will be at the centre of Norway in the future.’ This isn't what we're writing. It is not we who accuse the Progress Party, it is the Advance Party who writes it. And what the Progress Party writes is that the Progress Party has no policy in this area. That is what the Progress Party writes that this is the market and this is liberalism, in its most extreme form. When one says that the market should be regulated, it means that one has no policy in this area. It's that simple. My advice to Starheim is that he next time he travels to Sogn and Fjordane and meets the business managers, starts by reading this, and then he gets reactions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04.ana.ud2667e1246	I'm not going to elaborate on this with a necrolog and memorizing anything more than saying that the Workers' Party's County rapporteur in the South Trøndelag said that from that point forward – this was last week – had been heard to come as a task, this would be like wearing a high to a dead horse. I very much agree with him in that analysis. Then you might disagree if it's a stallion or a workhorse that's dead, but we get to take that discussion – and we get ample and good opportunity to take – in the further work. What made me take the floor was the representative from the Central Party, who was again up and trying to create the impression that there had been disagreement about the work of reintroducing a differentiated employer's fee. There I think what the Council of State said is a presentation that I think we should agree on. The previous government created an opening and a basis for the work that the new government completed. There has been broad political consensus throughout the process that this is the most effective tool we have in relation to an active district policy. There has been cross-political agreement in the Storting throughout the process. The scheme that one had, one of them first received objections from ESA under a central party council. This does not mean that I claim that the Central Party is responsible for the removal of the scheme, but if we are going to operate that kind of polemics, we can quickly get into it. There's none of us earned, as long as we all agree that it was right to get this in place. A government created a basis for this, a government did the job because of a government change. And if we can hold on to it, we can also maintain a common agreement that this is a good arrangement for the country, which we have to do a lot to preserve for the future as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04.ana.ud2667e1253	I don't feel that bad about traveling around in Sogn and Fjordne after Rolf Reikvam's articles, even though he read from our comments in the setting of this case. I can imagine printing it up and taking it around with me and showing it and reading it high for all business leaders in Sogn and Fjordane. But I don't want to stop there, I also want to tell business leaders what they know very well, and that's what else in our programme, and what's also in our budget proposals when it's due to facilitate business and to have a salary that's necessary for business to survive. Then I think I can travel more safely around Sogn and Fjordane and tell about our policy than Rolf Reikvam can do.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04.ana.ud2667e1258	The representative Hagebakken from the Workers' Party made some statements from this pulpit that I feel need to clear up. The Hagebaken is almost trying to raise doubts about whether the Progress Party is a member of a forced municipal merger. Let me just make it quite clear: the Progress Party has programmed that we do not want to force a municipal merger. We want that kind of aggregation to take place through voluntary activity. But when that is said, there is no doubt that we have an inappropriate municipal structure in Norway. There are several reasons for this. Firstly, if you want municipalities to be able to produce a good deal of new services and better quality services, you will depend on municipalities growing in the long term. Not least, it has to be seen in that perspective when we're talking about a two-tier model, that is, about municipality and state. We don't need any intermediary, neither county councils nor regions. Today, there is a great deal of talk about labour shortages, and representatives from the Government even call for increased labour immigration, which, from the point of view of the Progress Party, does not necessarily seem to be particularly sensible. However, it is clear that if a more efficient future-oriented municipal structure is created, a significant labour force could be freed from Kommune-Norway to private business. There is a lot of expertise in today's municipalities that could have been liberated and brought to business. At the same time, there is no doubt that larger and more robust municipalities will be able to provide more and better services and that, in the long term, new services can be provided to municipalities which, given today’s structure, are very difficult to implement. When we say that we want – and look at – a greater degree of community convergence, it is not least according to the Danish model, where a very large and significant reform has been carried out, where a very large number of municipalities have been merged and a much more effective structure through voluntary schemes. There is something Norway should look at in order to free up labour, to facilitate new tasks for municipalities and to strengthen local democracy in the long term. But, to be quite clear, the Progress Party will not use coercion in that process.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04.ana.ud2667e1269	It has been interesting to follow the debate today, partly from the hall and partly from the office. It is good that there is as much unity as there is now in Stortinget, that there is a need for an active and offensive district and regional policy, and that this message in this way is an important hub. What makes me take the floor is the little exchange of words here about a differentiated employer's fee, and who did what. There is no doubt that there are several governments involved in this, but it is then an undeniable fact that the previous government took the initiative, report to the Stortinge how they had planned to do this, and received a brief, comprehensive and clear message in the autumn of 2004. The initiative was taken in the Workers' Party, SV, the Centre Party and over in the Progress Party – at the end of the day there was a one-sided growth that made clear the leadership of the then government to take a new round in Brussels. It was done. A basis was laid which was then followed by the commitment and work undertaken by the Council of State, Kristin Halvorsen, Åslaug Haga, and others. Today, efforts are being made to desave the work and efforts of the current government. I think there were few who had expected, including the state councils that were in Brussels in the previous government, that one would get in place as comprehensive schemes as they now stand, and that means $7 billion per. year directly to business and 2 billion DKK per year. years to the municipalities in question — large-scale measures, large numbers of municipalities and large-scale businesses involved. Then we can enjoy a district announcement that also says that a good local economy is the basis. It is a communication that further points to trade and points to important industrial policy measures in general and to small-scale societal action in particular. However, it will always be clear that a differentiated employer’s fee was introduced here again far beyond what many had seen.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04.ana.ud2667e1280	Bent Höie has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04.ana.ud2667e1283	It was of course the last post that made me need to take the word again. I hope everyone noticed that the representative said that it was a unanimous increase that expressed his willingness to pay a differentiated employer fee. I think this is becoming a more and more unnecessary debate. I understand very well that the opposition that is now in government, when they were in opposition, needed to create the impression that the then government did not do a good enough job in that matter, even if that is not the case. But that one when one is now in government himself and took on a very good – surprisingly good – basis as one used in the best way to get a solution that everyone agrees on, then continues to use the rhetoric as a used in opposition, is quite perceptive, especially when we are opposition, repeatedly stretching out a hand to get a common opinion about this, so we let go of this stupid debate further.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04.ana.ud2667e1291	I share the opinion of the representative Bent Höie that it is now important to look forward. Now it is important to realize the district message. It is now important to ensure a good community economy, to ensure important measures in the field of transport policy and enterprise policy at large, and also to ensure that the smallest communities participate in both small and medium-sized enterprises. But I don't share Bent Höie's perception of the relationship between the commitment that the previous government had, and that commitment that the government that we have today has shown. There is nothing to dwell on. We have now established a system that will stand until it is evaluated, fortunately, quite many years. But it is such that a discovery was made from Stortinget with a background in the message given by the government of Bondevik II to the Stortinget about how they had intended to handle the issue of a differentiated employer's fee, and how it could be reintroduced. So there was a clear order from Stortinget's side. That means that the government was told to be more offensive than it would have been. Then a foundation was laid. No one should tell whether I or any of the others who followed this matter very carefully, that no more was achieved in Brussels with the government we have today than most had dared to hope for.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04.ana.ud2667e1298	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 874]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04.ana.ud2667e1315	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 875]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04.ana.ud2667e1332	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 875]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04.ana.ud2667e1348	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 875]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04.ana.ud2667e1364	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04.ana.ud2667e1373	When the Left has promoted the proposal to introduce a girlfriend visa for non-nationals with Norwegian girlfriends, it is, among other things, according to the proposers. because they have become aware that rigid legislation can create problems for such a relationship of love. In our global age, Norwegian citizens live more and more abroad, both more often and for longer periods of time. Therefore, it is quite natural that several Norwegian citizens also find lifelong companions in the countries in which they live. It is therefore proposed that a girlfriend visa be introduced for a period of 12 months without the possibility of extension. The visa should not form the basis of the residence permit, and the duration of the stay of the foreign national on such visa should not be included in the overall calculation of the residence permit as a basis for the residence permit. The suitability of persons on such visas in Norway to also be granted a work permit is assessed. The proposal from the Left has been submitted to the Ministry, which wants to see this in conjunction with the new Foreign Affairs Act. It is a broad majority of the Committee that supports the State Council. In addition to the government parties, the Right and Christian People's Party also believe that it is right to wait with a decision in this matter until the new Foreign Affairs Act is dealt with. Not least in the foreign field, it is important to see things in the context. The best possible result is when you have a comprehensive treatment of visa rules. An example of this is that we already have an engagement visa. It must be important to look at how this is practised. Perhaps a further development of the engagement visa may be possible rather than the introduction of a new category of visas. The majority of the Committee asks the Councils of State to investigate precisely this. The left also agrees that it would be natural to see this proposal in the context of new foreign law, but expresses the expectation that the girlfriend visa will become part of the new Foreign Law. The Progress Party is alone in not wanting to await the proposal for a new Foreign Law. The party is promoting its own minority proposal, and I expect them to both address the proposal and argue for their case. Since the majority want to see this matter in connection with the new Foreign Affairs Act, I do not think it is right to address the facts of the matter here and now. Whether it becomes a girlfriend's visa or not, there are a number of points in this case that should be discussed and assessed. Firstly, reference is made to a rigid regulatory framework that is not adapted to the global world in which we live. Long and increasing treatment duration is also mentioned. There are undoubtedly many who can tell stories about a difficult meeting with Norwegian visas reality. As important as new laws and regulations, it is to manage the legislation in a smooth and rapid manner. Here the responsible authorities have a clear potential for improvement. The second issue I want to address is the lack of transparency of the authorities in the field of visas. On questions from the Right fraction, the Council of State has replied that the functioning of Schengen cooperation is not possible to say with certainty how many persons are missing the visa period. There is no common register of visa seekers for use in, for example: the check-out. So we don't know if the visa seekers really return after the visa period. Nor are there any statistics on the number of visa visitors transported after their stay in Norway. Finally, in its reply to the Right, the Council of State says that it is unfortunate that no statistics are available in such important areas. It is therefore very important that he addresses this situation. I would argue that the overview and control of the visa situation are fundamental prerequisites that must be resolved before new legislation comes into place. With this, I recommend the majority proposal in the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04.ana.ud2667e1402	The representative Kari Lise Holmberg has taken up the suggestion she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04.ana.ud2667e1405	As the rapporteur quite rightly points out, there is a majority who want to see this matter in the context of the examination of the new foreign law. It is not illogical, but the Progress Party is against it, because we do not want such an action to be implemented. There is reason to stress that, under current schemes in the Foreign Affairs Act, there are already opportunities for a girlfriend to visit Norway. In the view of the Progress Party, restrictions on immigration policy are needed, not further liberalisation. It also seems strange if the Government – as it may seem at the moment – proposes a 21-year rule in the context of a new foreign law, possibly in combination with some form of connection requirement, while at the same time proposing liberalisation on this front. It is not surprising that there is a rather strong link between this type of immigration and the problem of coercion, between this type of immigration and pro forma. At that time, the Storting should act wisely and not further take a naïve view of these issues into account, but on the contrary, tightening the rules. We can't accept coercion. We can't accept pro forma. Then it'll be very strange if we liberalize these rules. On the part of the Progress Party, it is quite easy to say that we are against such liberalisation. I take this up with the proposals of the Progress Party and hope – although there is a majority in this Chamber that the Minutes will be attached – that the proposal by the Left will not be applied when a new foreign law is presented once in the New Year.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04.ana.ud2667e1414	The representative Per-Willy Amundsen has addressed the proposal referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04.ana.ud2667e1417	The Christian People's Party sees the need for a visa arrangement for girlfriends. More and more Nordics are getting a girlfriend from abroad. These couples may face major challenges in getting time together. I have a lot of understanding that it would have been okay if they could have become better acquainted with each other without having to exceed too high bureaucratic mountains. It's a fact that we live in a globalized world. Through the Internet, many today have had the opportunity to have contact with friends on the other side of the planet. For Kari, it is more natural to ‘chat’ on MSN with people she met in Paris during the summer vacation than it is to say hello to the neighbor when they pass each other in the passage. We should probably have had more time to contact our neighbours, but the reality is now like that. We study more, work more and spend more time outside the country than before. This has consequences. Many of us become acquainted across continents, borders and party boundaries. For some it becomes more than friendship. We have to take over these changes. That's why the Christian People's Party believes that we need to think creatively to get into a system that will work well for these couples. In their explanatory statement, the proposers state that a girlfriend’s visa will mean that they do not need to get married in order to get a chance to live together in Norway. The Christian People's Party believes that girlfriends must have the opportunity to get better acquainted before they get married, so this is something we're positive about. If we're going to put in place a girlfriend visa scheme, it's a little bit of a point that the trial period is going to be as short as possible. Today, some couples may experience that it is months from the date of the application until they receive a reply. It has to do with both the system, the capacity and the resources of the foreign administration. We need to look at what can be done. There will be little help for girlfriends with a girlfriend's visa whose average duration of treatment is eight months. The Christian People's Party basically thinks that a kind of girlfriend's visa is a good idea. However, when we have not joined the proposers, it is because we believe that this matter must be seen in the context of the proposal for a new foreign law. Perhaps the solution will be to further develop and extend the engagement visa scheme we already have. The length of the duration of a residence permit granted in the form of a girlfriend's visa, we need to get closer. We want to see carefully what conditions should be attached to such a visa. For example, the maintenance requirement must be: the assessment. It goes without saying that a young Norwegian student who has taken a semester of education abroad, hardly has his own home or a high annual salary to refer to here at home in Norway. I believe that more stringent requirements will come next time, if it would be appropriate to apply for a permanent residence permit.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04.ana.ud2667e1434	There are many reasons why we chose to promote this proposal. One of the bottom points is that one thing is immigration policy and integration policy, but our visa policy and the opportunity to show hospitality to people from other countries is time to address the whole. Because there are very many of us who have friends or parts of the family in other parts of the world, where you can travel and experience great hospitality, while the opportunity to invite them to Norway is not very great. I actually think that's a little awkward. Of all the suggestions I've been on and worked with in Stortinget in my nearly six years here, it's in connection with this that I've heard most bad stories from individuals that underline how important this is. Actually, I feel that you are quite busy getting this done, but basically I am most concerned that we get it done. So if we can bring more people into the team in relation to the proposal for a new foreign law, I'm willing to wait for that. This is about a lot of parts. It's all about everything from the first position you meet in the embassy. In an embassy, for example, a meeting takes place. men who are in the Philippines and are to apply for a visa to their Filipino girlfriend, with the expectation that they have actually bought the girlfriend. If you complain about a visa you have applied for at the embassy in Egypt, the Norwegian Embassy will keep the Egyptian passport for three months while they are processing the application. The way many foreign stations handle visa applications makes you feel that Norway is a country to which you are not welcome. When two people meet, and they think that there have been some feelings that you want to build on for the rest of your life, many get a very impossible starting point. You never try to live together in a normal way, where both of them actually have the opportunity to work together, where you have the opportunity to have a balanced life and feel the culture of the other country, and where you can actually have a balance in a relationship. Then I must say that I am shocked when I listen to the Advancement Party. They really don't have any arguments at all because they're against it. It's okay. After all, a girlfriend's visa is a real counterattack to coercion and pro forma. Think of what a love visa could do in cases where it's about coercion, if the two could get a few months together in Norway to try this out. Many fathers and partners could have seen that such a visa would have given some other balance point than when deciding everything at an embassy in Pakistan. There are a lot of people who make marriages without trying to live together on equal terms, without having the opportunity to work, and where you make marriages because you know that this is the only way to try to live together. I want people to try to live together before they join a paper marriage that might not be worth anything when it comes to the play. I would like to see some rules put in place so that Norway can be a country where you can have friends, family and others visit in an honest and honest way, without feeling that you have to go for a snack in the bureaucracy. I hope that the Council of State has ambitions to have a comprehensive visa policy, where we can show popularism to others. I hope we have the opportunity to make rules that make all the couples I've heard stories from, and all the people who want to live together in Norway, that they don't have to move abroad in order to live together.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04.ana.ud2667e1449	I'm just going to briefly confirm that the questions raised in the proposal by Trine Skei Grande, Anne Margrethe Larsen and Lars-Henrik Michelsen, of course, become part of the assessments of the work we're going to do with the Foreign Affairs Act. The small debate we have in the Chamber on this proposal shows that when we are going to deal with the law on foreigners, we will be faced with many partly demanding and complex issues. Of course, we should follow up what the Storting asks for, and go into the discussion involved in this proposal. That is why I am not going to commit to the debate now, but I am asking to come back to it when the time is right. I have a few brief comments. It is important that we remember that the Norwegian Visa Code is linked to Schengen cooperation. As a starting point, the person intending to stay in the kingdom beyond three months shall apply for a residence permit, not a visa. It is important for me to stress when we are now discussing what will happen later, that we cannot decide unilaterally from the Norwegian side, for example. a one-year visa period, if it does not harmonise with the Schengen acquis. At least then, we will face the situation that either we must choose to continue to participate in Schengen or we must act to ensure that Schengen cooperation does not operate with visa periods of more than three months. So in the event of a possible 12-month stay for girls, it is necessary to establish a new basis for residence permits, i.e. not as part of the visa system, if we are to continue to participate in the Schengen cooperation. Now I do not reject the fact that we will also take a round to consider longer stays for girls as a possible basis for a residence permit. However, I think it is important that, when examining this proposal, I stress that the visa of 12 months will therefore not be possible in the context of Schengen cooperation. In that case, we have to look for other models. In addition, the representative, Skei Grande, takes up the broad lines of the debate on visa policy. Of course, it is also an important part of the comprehensive Foreign Affairs Act, which will be dealt with in the spring session. However, I agree with the representative of Skei Grande that she touches very important points in a part of foreign policy that is rarely discussed. We are discussing asylum policy, we are discussing family reunification and immigration policy, we are discussing labour immigration policy, etc. – visa policy is rarely debated. So I very much welcome that initiative to have a debate on visa policy. What I experience as a dilemma in this way is that we need to find a visa policy that can work in the real world. What is regrettable about the Visa Institute is that it is so often abused. People apply for a visit visa, and then we see that when you have to return, you are travelling in Schengen, and so you do not have control of the return. We have seen that very many have used visa rules as a starting point for seeking family reunification from Norway. Now that legislation has changed, so that there is no longer any opportunity to seek family reunification from Norway. So if you marry in connection with a visa, you have to return to your home country to seek family reunification from there. It will probably help lower the threshold in order to provide a visit visa, because there is no danger that it may be misused as a visa to seek family reunification.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04.ana.ud2667e1463	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04.ana.ud2667e1467	It is good to record that the Council of State in this matter is not as simple as some other representatives in this Chamber do. There are problematic aspects of what should be considered much more carefully than in the case of a representative proposal in Stortinget, so it appreciates the Progress Party. Now, on a number of occasions, the Storting is postponing cases, precisely on the grounds that there will be a new foreign law. The same law on foreigners has been repeatedly suspended. What I want an answer from the Council of State to is: Can he clarify to the Storting when he expects the proposal for a new foreign law to be submitted? Or is it that the disagreement between government parties is so high that you can't expect it to come before summer 2007?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04.ana.ud2667e1474	Firstly, it is demanding for me to deal with statements that the Foreign Affairs Act is subject to «time and time again». We had an ambition to present the Foreign Affairs Act before Christmas this year. Then we signaled very clearly in the context of the review of the UDI, the Graver Commission's report, that it would be natural in the wake of it to write more about the organisation of the foreign field. It would take a little longer than what was originally planned as a central part of the proposition. That is why we announced that we would postpone it from December of this year until the month change of February/March of the next year. It's our ambition that we can deliver then. It is a well-known matter that the three government parties disagree on parts of this policy area, but I feel very confident that we will deal with it in a good way. We're going to get a good law and a good proposition, and we're going to put it forward in the month shift February/March next year. Then we'll alert the Storting in the usual way about when it happens exactly.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04.ana.ud2667e1481	During the work on this matter, I received an enquiry from an individual, who has probably met the bureaucracy in a visa matter. I'll refer you a little bit: ‘The problem is not that there is a need for permission for us to get together. It's a big misunderstanding. The problem is the length of proceedings — which is 8 months on average.’ And then it goes on to say: ‘The case-treatment time is mainly long due to the capacity of the UDI, but also due to the fact that the applicant process is not optimised. Why, for example, are we going to the police to provide pay slips when this is already up to date? And why should the police ask us if we know who we want to marry?" There are simple questions, but enough to think about. And I know that a matter of girlfriend visas could have been avoided if we had a code and bureaucracy that was consistent and effective. I think a lot of the problem lies here, considering all the enquiries we get as politicians. So what will the Council of State do to reduce the lengthy processing time and optimise the search process?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04.ana.ud2667e1496	I fully agree that it is a continuous challenge to have the processing time as short as possible. That is why we have recently dealt with a matter in the Storting where we increased the appropriations for UDI this year. And in the budget there's a significant investment to UDI next year. The purpose is to be able to have both good capacity and good quality – both parts are very important. And I can assure you that, like the previous government, this government is very busy trying to have a good handling capacity in UDI. At the same time, I believe – as I also said in my speech – that one of our challenges is that there are the many who abuse the system, leading to the need for rigid control also of those who do not intend to abuse it. In this area, counterfeiting, invalid certificates, etc. flourish, creating the need for quite rigid systems and a problem for the honest applicants we want in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04.ana.ud2667e1503	I am very pleased with the tone in which the Council of State has responded, and I am really looking forward to the proposal. That's very strange. Among other things, I have got a story from a man in the Philippines who got no on the application for a tourist visa for her boyfriend because she was not married – which he really thought was positive, but which was negative about getting her to the country. Then I came to what my question concerns: I know a little girl who is four years old and is called Iben. She's had an au pair from Bosnia for many years. When the family now wants to invite Ibens au pair to celebrate Christmas with them, it gets no – because she's not married, she's a young lady. This attitude towards the applicant – when the family says it in itself can guarantee that she is both coming and traveling and is doing well when she is here, when the family asks why it cannot contribute when this is a person who has played an important role in Iben’s life – is it a kind of basic idea that the Council of State agrees to be the basis for a new visa policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04.ana.ud2667e1512	I will try not to comment on that particular matter. What's a problem for us is that the foreign administration has thousands of examples in which people have guaranteed that they should respect the visa rules – but then you have thousands of examples in which the same people have not followed what they have said. It is the experience that creates our problems, which makes it so difficult to sort out the honest and sincere applicants from the applicants who plan to abuse the visa conditions when they arrive. This is a dilemma. I was in Pakistan a while ago. There I worked quite intensely with our embassy in Islamabad to look at these issues. The best thing I can say now is that I agree with the representative that we should have a fair and proper visa policy. We have a lot to work on before we get into a situation that we can be satisfied with.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04.ana.ud2667e1521	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 875]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04.ana.ud2667e1540	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 875]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04.ana.ud2667e1557	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 876]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04.ana.ud2667e1573	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that a replacement of lines be given with up to three lines with replies after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04.ana.ud2667e1582	The Committee shall present a split position in connection with the submission of the representatives of the depositors Kari Lise Holmberg, Olemic Thommessen and Bent Höie on the extension of the opening hours in the public sector. Those who support the proposal want to develop a public sector that is open and provides services when the inhabitants need it. The proposers of my public office in the same way as shops must be adapted to modern working and family life. They also think it's simple and cheap grip that's going to happen, cf. the proposal on objectives for better opening hours. By letter of 27 October 2006 from the Ministry of Renewal and Administration at the Council of State Heidi Grande Røys, the Government does not support the proposal. However, the government agrees with the proposers that it is important for the public sector to provide good and timely services, with a high degree of accessibility for the inhabitants. The majority of the committee – which consists of the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Christian People's Party and the Centre – is similar to the proposers who note that the public sector provides good services and that there is good availability. The majority indicate that there are different needs for different parts of the country. They think that there must be local authorities, along with those added and the leaders of the various offices, who are best placed to set the opening hours. I assume that the representatives from the majority themselves will do their best for their views and opinions on the matter, and that they will also take up their own recommendations. The party of progress indicates that we are living today in a society in which industry and, in particular, service industries have adapted to social demands and social needs, which means that people have access to services far beyond the usual period of time just a few decades ago. Today, it is not uncommon for some service industries to have daily meals. I can show that in such a small place as Måløj in Sogn and Fjordane, food and various other items can be traded 24 hours a day. It is said from the daily tenant in this store that it is only at night that customers come to shop. The party of progress does not think that the public sector should have offices open 24 hours a day. However, we agree with the proposers that one should adopt clear measurable objectives on better opening hours in the public sector. The main reason for this is that, after the Progress Party, the public is in place for the inhabitants, and that they have to provide a service to the inhabitants around the country that is appropriate to what the inhabitants are used to, and what is the general desire of the inhabitants. This means that the public sector needs to do its best to be adapted to today's modern working and family life. We have also registered arguments from the residents around the country who are struggling to get time to visit public offices without having to get away from their jobs – this is because many public offices are shutting down before or at the same time with many industrial workplaces. This is not satisfactory after the Progress Party's vision. It is therefore in agreement with the proposers that service to the working population should be given a high priority by a combination of longer opening hours and the digitisation of public service provision. The party of progress has agreed that some state offices, such as those with large crowds, will be open until noon. 18 on weekdays and in some cases on Saturdays. The Progress Party also supports the proposers in the fact that government offices with public presence will have solutions for telephone billing up to 1 p.m. during this major period. 18 on weekdays and from 6 p.m. 10 to 10 o'clock. 14 Saturdays. By means of MinSide and norge.no websites, state agencies shall provide information and provide personal, electronic services 24 hours a day. This should be in place during 2007. The Progress Party cannot see that there is a completely untimely requirement we make for the public sector, if the public sector aims to offer services to its audience that are in accordance with the requirements of the same audience to other service industries. The Progress Party is aware that there will be costs associated with extended opening hours, and that one must organise the work in government offices in slightly different ways than one does today. The working time of those adding must be shifted so that some of the costs associated with such a scheme are taken into account. Looking at an improved service to the audience, which we are certain will be met with great satisfaction among the audience, this is worth the cost increase. I take up the proposal of the minority in the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04.ana.ud2667e1616	The representative Åge Starheim has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04.ana.ud2667e1619	Today, we have a proposal to substantially extend the opening hours of the public sector in relation to the opening hours. Today, opening hours are roughly equal to regular working days in most municipalities. Proposalers point to a need for better accessibility for the population, and state that there is a need for opening hours until noon. 18 a.m. on weekdays, telephone guard until 6 p.m. 18 as well as Saturday open. This shall apply to all public agencies. The majority of the Committee takes note of the letter of response from the Council of State, and believes that the Government is in the process of addressing many important and key issues with a view to improving the accessibility of our welfare offices. It's working on finding good solutions in terms of modernising our increasingly time consuming society. These include: focused on digitisation and broadband deployment. District policy remains on the political agenda, and administrative reforms such as NAV are well under way. These are important political issues for the Workers' Party when we discuss accessibility for people. For the Working Party, availability is more than just opening hours. We want to ensure good physical availability, cf. universal design of public buildings. The majority also believe that a key element in any context is communication and information. It is important that information about our welfare state comes to people well. It is about providing clear and simple information so that it is easily accessible. You don't have to train on the system to get help. With regard to the communication medium of our time, digitisation of information is constantly finding new ways. The council says something about this in its note. Today, almost the entire tax base is online – in Altinn. The same applies to NAV. Storing and central government are good at providing information online, and many feel that it is relatively easy to contact. More and more municipalities have begun to give priority to wireless communications. We could recently read in the Kommunal Report on the annual formation of best eKommune, and my municipality – Horten – left the winner this year. We see that the number of people who use the Internet is constantly increasing. Nevertheless, it is important to focus on reaching everyone. This is a challenge for the welfare state, and perhaps primarily for the municipalities. These are the people who know the people best – where they live, where they work, where they travel, etc. It's the people who have to take care of the people's interests locally, and it's one of the greatest values we've ever had in this society. The majority also prioritise faster procedures, which may allow for more assistance and thus provide better access to assistance. The opening hours, as the proposer writes, must be adapted to the society we live in – that is important – and where people live. The needs around the country have proved to be very different. We believe that the proposal under consideration today can have unintended effects in relation to what may be the intention. Where or who would you like to meet with such national legislation? Having equal opening hours in Oslo and in Andebu can seem a little strange to me. At least there is no efficient use of resources in the public sector, of which the previous government was very concerned. I am therefore a little surprised that it is Right-wing representatives who are promoting this proposal today. It is important for the majority to maintain precise opening hours as a local management tool, while, in principle, we believe that our long-term country is offering local adaptations and may also require adaptations both in municipal and state enterprises. Nevertheless, it will at all times place a responsibility on our welfare offices to be in dialogue with its citizens. The majority therefore call for open meetings, hearings, user surveys, etc. While the majority feel that it is doing a lot of good, and that the public sector seems to be busy with outbound work, people expect more service now than before, and it is probably also noticed in the barriers. The majority of the Committee considers the matter that has been raised today to be a matter of good intentions, but nevertheless believes that the intentions are well served by the work of the Government and by the local People's Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04.ana.ud2667e1642	The right considers that one needs to develop a public sector that is open and that provides services when needed. The right considers that public offices, in the same way as shops, must be adapted to modern working and family life. Lonely and families both at work need extended opening hours. Therefore, it is necessary to work to ensure that the opening hours and telephone hours of government offices in local and municipal offices last longer. So someone would like to ask the question: Is this a problem in a society where the phone, the Internet, etc. is available? Yeah, that's it, actually. Not everyone wants or can use that type of help, and some of the services now have to meet in person to get implemented. In addition, the quality of websites varies greatly. Not everyone even has contact time and opening time information. Therefore, it is essential to set clear targets for improvements in opening hours in the State sector over the four-year period. I would have agreed with the objections that have been raised to the proposal, if this had been a proposal that would apply to services in the municipal sector. Then it would be wrong for the Storting or the Government to come up with the kind of national objectives. But it is actually the Storting and the Government that govern the sectors for which we are here today to decide on the opening hours. There is no local government in relation to these offices. We in this room are responsible for that kind of service. That's why it's also right to set clear targets, because without clear targets, it's very likely that you won't get better opening times in the next four years either. In the right, we've gone even further than setting clear targets. In our alternative budget we have also proposed that the 20 million. kr that the Government intends to use for a six-hour trial scheme, rather for extended public sector opening time – preferably in government offices. Everyone has experienced how difficult it is to get there in time if, for example, one. must register a car or have a new passport when this is to be associated with opening hours in kindergartens, etc. In a hectic everyday life, one does not have a day to go to, precisely because many of the public offers are not available when one needs them. We have had an interpellation debate on this earlier. We have now promoted a Document No. Eight proposals, which are therefore rejected by the majority parties. The reason for rejecting this is the letter from the Council of State in which she again responds that one has clear objectives of extended opening time, but that one will not say anything about how they should be achieved or what they should be in the various areas. For us, it becomes increasingly clear that the reason why the Government does not want these kinds of goals is that it does not want to be measured in relation to the results. It is very easy to give general consideration to the desire for extended opening time and when the four-year period is over, saying there and there has a clear extension of the opening time, so we have achieved this. Something quite different is to commit to concrete objectives to which this room has joined, and to assess them after four years. In conclusion, I would like to ask the Council of State: is the background to one rejecting these proposals, that one does not want to be able to evaluate one's own work when this four-year period is over?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04.ana.ud2667e1659	I believe that all the parties share the good intentions of the proposers with the proposal. We need a public sector that is adapted to the time we live in. Services should be easily accessible to people. We have some way to go in this area. Some offices are not open except in normal working hours, and it is heavy for many. Not everyone has flexible working days. We believe that some of the solution to their challenges must be longer opening times. But the Christian People's Party believes that the proposal from the Right is too extensive. It does not take too little account of the different needs of different offices in different locations. It will be too rigid and not appropriate to bring down one particular solution across the whole sector. The needs are different. There must be room for each branch of the public sector to find appropriate solutions together with local authorities. Some offices need to keep open until noon. 18 every day, while others will be able to meet the needs of the audience in a satisfactory way by having an opening time of 1 p.m. 17. The Christian People's Party therefore agrees with the intentions of the proposal of the Right. We need a more flexible public sector, but the proposals involve central governance that goes beyond what the Christian People's Party wants. There must be greater room for local adaptation also for government offices.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04.ana.ud2667e1668	The President notes that the scheduled time for tomorrow's meeting is soon to come, but suggests that the debate be continued until the end of the matter. - No objections have been raised.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04.ana.ud2667e1671	I am pleased that the Storting is very flexible when it applies to both debates and others, so that we can resolve the debate. I appreciate that. President! In this context, it is important that the public sector, as well as state agencies, provide good and timely services available to citizens. We are quite a few with the proposers on that point. But when that is said, I would like to stress that it is important to develop decent offers that meet individual needs as best as possible, and it requires flexible and tailor-made solutions that meet users and residents. So we know that a modern family life means that you have to go to a public office from 5 p.m. 16 to 16 o'clock. 18th@item: inlistbox It may be a very modern family life to need services after noon. 20. So rigid solutions won't meet their needs. And then, as many people have said, it's a cost side of it. And we're going to strive for a cost-effective public sector. Having a solution for everyone is by no means a cost-effective solution. For this reason, I do not agree that central requirements should be set for specific, extended opening hours to such a large extent of the state budgets that the representatives' proposals entail. The Multilateral Committee then reached the same conclusion. It's crazy if the Storting should set opening times that would apply to the whole country, even in selected etats. As the Committee says, when it comes to municipal governance, the issue of opening hours must be resolved by the local authorities themselves, together with the addition and management of the various offices, according to local circumstances and local needs. But, of course, one should have a time perspective even when it relates to the municipal solutions, because the efficiency of municipal administration leads to new ways of meeting its citizens. Therefore, an offer has not been made once and for all, but it is not such that it applies to other municipalities automatically. In several municipalities, an extended opening time has been tried in service offices, libraries – typical places to seek information. But the experience of these experiments is certainly not clear. Some people find it pointless because there are too few users who use the extended opening time, and then they end up with it after the trial period is over. Once again, as Cosmo was also involved, very much of the information you need is digitized, and people are looking for information even where they need it. This highlights the need for flexible solutions and not for a common standard solution. When it comes to the state budgets, evaluations have to be made on a need-to-know basis. Extending wide-scale opening times for large groups of state-owned etaters requires good documentation to find that it gives citizens better access. For this reason, I am pleased that the majority in the Committee are in favour of public offices conducting regular user investigations to document users' wishes and needs. The question of obliging government officials to measures to improve user rights is important and something I have addressed. In addition to complying with the requirement to carry out user studies, I consider proposing that a systematic user survey be included in the letters of assignment, i.e. as part of the governance dialogue with the agencies below. To answer Bent Höie's question: This is just to be measured – not to be too anxious to be measured – by those who are going to use our services, i.e. the users. Systematic user studies that are made open and available, so that you can see what the results of the user surveys are, are a way to communicate with the inhabitants and not least one way to have the dialog that allows us to be measured. We're working on that. In addition to that, we intend to create a user correction guide. The aim of the guide is to describe the expectations set out in the issue of user rights and the measures taken. The guide shall have a holistic perspective on user correction, in the light of this government’s view of public sector renewal. Etats must be able to assess the impact of their actions, and of course they must involve them. It's important if you're going to do these jobs with renewal, with extended opening hours. In that case, some etaters may need extended opening time, others may not. But then let them decide things themselves, so that they don't get a solution tucked down over themselves. Some may need several hours, others for one day stuck in a week, some for several days stuck in a week, others for the month. Finally, two words about 24-hour electronic management: it's something we're working on continuously. It's right around the corner that we get to launch MiSide, as the representatives in this room know, has been postponed several times, both by the previous and current state councils. That page will be the main meeting place for the inhabitants in relation to their state budgets, and eventually a good place. The local authorities are ready. Some municipalities want to join us from the start, and we try to get them in place as soon as possible. It's going to be one side, one place to go. Instead of going around and remembering 15 websites, you think of a page and a place where you can find the services we can offer you electronically as a resident. MiSide will not be finished when it is finished. And then the development starts just as we've seen with Altin. When it's about the police and the passport, it's just saying that per. Today there are forms out, so you can have things ready and fill out a form before you go to the passport office. The second thing to say is, if you go outside of your vacation time, if you think you need a new passport other than your vacation time, it will take almost a few days to get a passport. There are also 24-hour police stations in all the big cities. Here the system is more flexible than we want it to, at least if people are thinking about planning their travels in a little bit of time ahead.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-04.ana.ud2667e1707	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox The evening meeting will be set at 0 p.m. 18th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 876]]
