ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-03.ana.ud1333e34	The representatives Åse Gunhild Woie Duesund, Karin S. Woldseth and Trine Skei Grande, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. The called alternate of the Nord-Trøndelag County, Change Skjervø, has taken the seat. Three permit applications are available: by the Central Party Group on the sick leave of the representative, Inger S. Enger, from 3 April onwards and until further notice, on the sick leave of the representative, Terje Aasland, from 3 April onwards and until further notice, from the Workers' Group on the care leave of the representative, Jorod Asphjell, from 3 April to 4 April On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The applications shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For Uppland County: Johannes RindalFor Telemark County: Lise WiikFor South-Trundellag County; Knut Gravrök3. Johannes Rindal, Lise Wiik and Knut Gravrök are elected to Lagtinget for the time they meet the representatives of Inger S. Enger, Terje Aasland and Jorodd Asphjell respectively.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-03.ana.ud1333e92	Johannes Rindal, Lise Wiik and Knut Tombs are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-03.ana.ud1333e98	The President will propose the election of two presidents for the Stortinges meetings this week – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Sigvald Uppøen Hansen and Gunn Olsen. – Other proposals are not available, and Sigvald Oppebøen Hansen and Gunn Olsen are unanimously elected as presidents of the current week’s meetings.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-03.ana.ud1333e108	The representative Ulf Leirstein will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-03.ana.ud1333e111	On behalf of the representatives of Kenneth Svendsen, Øyvind Korsberg and myself, I would like to propose that the permit regime be extended to 42 weeks, and that the employer's period of compulsory pay should be reduced to five working days.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-03.ana.ud1333e116	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-03.ana.ud1333e130	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose to give rise to a change in line — within the allocated speaking time — of up to five lines following the intervention of the Council of State. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-03.ana.ud1333e139	The communication we are debating today has the primary objective of reviewing the economic development of the Norwegian Church. The Committee, during its examination of the Communication, has taken into account the fact that the Government-appointed Gjønnes Committee has provided its position on the relationship between State and Church. The Committee has chosen to await the expected process of dealing with the State/Church issue itself and not to enter into and discuss the financing arrangements of the Norwegian Church at this stage. It is worth noting the positive attitude it has been in the committee to provide the Norwegian Church with good and viable framework conditions. As you know, this message was presented by the Bondevik II government and not withdrawn by the government of Stoltenberg. This is, of course, reflected in the Committee's position, which brings together several points of broad and cross-political agreement. The paper states that in recent years there has been a significant increase in the government appropriations of the Church over the State budget. However, this growth has mainly been explained by the strengthening of the services and by the decision of the Stortingen to introduce a reform of faith training. Funding of the services constitutes a central part of the state's responsibility towards the Norwegian Church. In particular, the service has been strengthened by the creation of several posts and increased appropriations for the prostemts. However, the new posts have mainly taken place as a result of agreements on regulated leisure and contingency arrangements for the benefit. In this way, it is designed to improve the care of personnel policy considerations in the performance, which has been important and absolutely necessary. When this is said, it should also be noted that it is not without a doubt that more leisure time and orderly preparedness for the priests will lead to a strengthening of the service itself in the congregations. With effect from 1 July 2004, a new service scheme for protesters was put in place. The reform implies that the prostheses are entrusted with a significantly greater responsibility for the service of the priests and have been given greater responsibility as managers. It is now important that the percentage of the prosthetic services, which are now disappearing, be compensated for the success of the reform. The other area that has been significantly strengthened in the later budgets is the reform of faith training. The broad political impetus for the launch of this reform provides a very good starting point for the further stepping up of the appropriations for the reform. I have noticed that the Progress Party is the only party that has to some extent distanced itself from this reform. At the same time, I have noticed with satisfaction that the party is showing care for the action when it is now underway, and wants to ensure a good follow-up to the reform, including. through quality assurance. Refuge training is estimated to have a financial framework of approx. 250 million. kr when it is fully developed. It is important to stress that it is the Church, within the framework given, who is to govern both the structure and the content of the religious training. The Joint Councils are central bodies of the local church administration. A unanimous committee believes it is important that the growth of the Joint Councils continues in the coming period, and the Committee notes that there is a link between the church economy and the economy of the municipalities. Recently, we have been given an indication that the increased transfers to the municipalities that came into the last state budget have so far not led to increased appropriations to the councils to the desired extent. A central point of the message concerns church buildings. Since this theme will be included in an interview later today, I refer you to this topic and to the Committee's comments in the vote. Recently, there has been a discussion about the use of the Information Society's fund and its resources. The Information Service's fund is an independent legal entity, managed by the State for the benefit of the Norwegian Church. Each year, the Fund contributes significant amounts to the operation of the Norwegian Church, both through financial grants to, inter alia, child and youth work and through the care of the residences. The aim is that the fund is managed in such a way that it yields returns, and that it can provide room for increased contributions to the Norwegian Church over time. Here I can only briefly take into account that the majority of the committee, which is made up of the three government parties, is in favour of removing the inflation adjustment of the fund and wanting to see whether the capital released from the sale of real estate can be made available for the maintenance of protected church buildings. On the part of the minority, it can be noted that if the majority and the Government go so far as to dissipate the values of the fund, bit by bit, they will contribute to significantly weakening its value and undermining an important part of the financial basis of the Church in the future. There is reason to make a very serious call: wait with the whole discussion for the treatment of the Genius Committee. Everyone's gonna be worth it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-03.ana.ud1333e169	The church has been focused a lot in recent years. If we look back five to six years, we see that big things have been discussed, things that have had a significant impact on the Church. We will not avoid mentioning the reform of faith training and the proste reform, and this year we have received the position of the Committee on the Gender Equality on the relationship between church and state. Only the last case is of such dimensions that I hope and believe that we are getting an ever-increasing commitment to the people – depending on how far we are in the consultation process. What I think is good for the Church is that the members of the Committee have tried – and clearly – to reach a broad consensus on most of the elements of this communication that have been discussed. Case rapporteur Lånke has done a good job in this way. That the message has been presented by a Christian People's Party Council and maintained by a Labour Party Council, also tells of general agreement. Of course, I could have spent my entire article on what there is some disagreement about, namely the Information Society's fund and the management of its values. However, this is a matter we will come back to. But let me add a little thing: I have registered that someone wants to make it so that the so-called red-greens want to drain the Information Society's fund – almost as if this was a goal. This must at best be due to a misunderstanding. My point of mentioning this is to make it clear that we don't want to stick our heads in the wheels of the Church, we don't want to make the economy difficult – let that be the starting point for a constructive debate in the future. But it's a lot more pleasant to spend a little time with what the whole committee agrees on. What can this lead to when there is such an agreement? Firstly, it is very nice that a broad majority think that the report on the economy of the Norwegian Church is a foundation on which the activity of the Church can build. There are no proposals that change the dramatic course ahead – both in the training of faith and in the proste reform. The Committee stresses the need to continue the development of these reforms. With regard to the organisation of church administration, both the notification and the committee setting point out that there is still scope for efficiency improvement and that there is a potential for savings in the reorganisation and restructuring of the council. Reference can be made here to cooperation across common borders and across common borders. However, it is important to stress that such initiatives and opportunities are based on what is possible from the local point of view. We simply believe that it is easier to succeed if such initiatives come from below. Municipalities have a high responsibility for the operation and maintenance of churches and cemeteries — and the personnel resulting from them. Therefore, it is important – very important – that municipalities are made financially capable of carrying out this task and this responsibility. Of course, it may vary between municipalities how much is allocated to these tasks, but it goes without saying that the tasks of municipalities are many and the variations are large. Therefore, it is very difficult at any time to establish the extent of the growth in this area of responsibility. However, it is not difficult to establish that if the local economy is extremely tight, this also has consequences for the Church. Therefore, we must ensure that welfare producer No. 1 in this country is increasingly being better able to discharge its responsibilities. As far as church building is concerned, like the rapporteur, I would not like to say so much, as there is an interpellation on this later today. The only thing that has to be an objective is to avoid getting into a situation where the debate is about which churches to lay down. The Soria Moria Declaration is a guide in my thinking about this, where a sentence reads: ‘construct financially for enhanced maintenance of church buildings.’ [[...]] Finally, I would like to say that we have not reached the goal. We need to follow up and follow up on the challenges identified in the communication. This is particularly the case in the context of the budgetary procedure. Reforms are in progress and must be followed up, and construction needs maintenance.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-03.ana.ud1333e188	Closer to a ‘silent before the storm’ message than the message we have to deal with today, I don’t think one is coming. The Communication does not include any fundamental or fundamental aspects, and this also applies to a large extent to the setting up of the Committee. In the right, we see it as the church-state investigation and discussion about it that also needs to clarify and find solutions to some of the challenges facing the Church. The Norwegian Church is a very central institution in the Norwegian community – this applies whether we are talking about the Church here in the country or the role of the Sjömann Church for the Nordics abroad. It is important that the Stortinget is regularly briefed on the economy and challenges of the Norwegian Church. There is no doubt that the challenges are, in part, great in both the operation of the Church and the maintenance of church buildings. It is important that policy does not go too far into the Church's right to find solutions to its own challenges, especially in terms of operational organisation. The notification reveals that the Church can face significant challenges in the choice of economy, volunteering and potential economies of scale in the organisation. Furthermore, we have noted that the Church has a challenge to change the distribution of resources between the dioceses in relation to the continuous changes in the population. We believe that the Church is doing a good job, and is on the right track in its work on the reform of religious education, and we will praise the Church for the increased commitment this has created in the churches. Training reform is a major and important initiative, and it is important that results can be documented in line with expectations. In general, it is important to promote open and good dialogue, and good relations with and dialogue between different religious directions. There are many forces that want to cultivate the contradictions of today's society. The Norwegian Church has an important role to play in combating these cancers. We would also like to stress that there has been a strengthening of the services. This has opened up regulated periods of free time and emergency arrangements for the priests, which are important in order to better safeguard the interests of human resources in the performance of their duties. Increased government appropriations have largely been used to finance these two reforms. There is a significant maintenance need the Church is facing. This is estimated at NOK 8 billion in the notification. Maintenance is a municipal responsibility. The enormous delays in the maintenance needs indicate that the municipalities do not adequately discharge this responsibility. The State cannot dissociate itself from a role in this area. An extension of the interest-rate compensation scheme will be an important signal to municipalities and provide a necessary incentive for municipalities to give priority to maintenance. The ownership of the Information Service Fund – OVF – is a political issue, which will be addressed in the context of the discussion of the position of the Gender Committee. Until this happens, the Information Society's fund must be managed as an independent legal entity with a view to its return and so that it can provide room for increased contributions to the Norwegian Church over time. We believe that the Information Society's fund has a statutory obligation not to give up or give up values at a lower price than market value. Furthermore, inflation adjustment is not other than the maintenance of the fund's real values over time. It is important not to weaken the requirement to restate the fund. This will weaken the fund's ability over time to fulfill its obligations to the Church. Nor shall the restated portion of the return make it easier for public authorities to discharge their responsibilities for the Kirken maintenance seat suspension. The majority warn that the Government will quickly make its own proposal to change the law so that it removes the binding that is in the inflation adjustment. It is in what has been said that the representative of the Workers' Party actually warns that one will lose the OVF. We are deeply sorry, of course, but we have to take it up for discussion when the matter comes to Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-03.ana.ud1333e203	Democracy is a laborious process. Through the 1996 Church Law, democratic bodies were established for the Norwegian Church with the Church Council as the central church political council. The fact that there is a church policy struggle in the Norwegian Church is obvious to everyone who comes with it – and it might just be missing. What is motivating is that in this fight, most things are allowed, including in terms of elections and recruitment in the Church. When the democratically elected Church Council was to appoint director, we were exposed in an unworthy way. Lack of loyalty in combination with randomness can turn to a unanimous attitude and have church policy implications with great reach. For us who put our trust that the democratic part of the Church is well established, that ordinary democratic rules have been given a good foothold, this was an important reminder. I think it is not unlikely that this could affect the further debate on the relationship between state and church. All those who argue that a distinction will create a narrower church, where power produces little understanding of diversity, may at least have had a little breeze in the sails. I nevertheless choose to hope that the vast majority will deal with the debate about distinguishing state and church in a principle way, and use this matter to increase commitment in support of the democratic part of our church. The message was submitted by the previous government, and it was continued by the current government. That's why a large majority is behind it. It gives a good description of the economic situation of the Norwegian Church. It also shows, if anyone's in doubt, that we have a municipal church in terms of funding. It's important that we also have this perspective with us. The message also shows that the old conflicts between the Church of Officials and the Church of Council, the democratic part of the Church, are still just below the surface. Where is the need for new jobs greatest? Is there a need for priests or non-spirituals like deacons, catechists, church musicians and other cultural workers? All of this is right below the surface. The Committee points out that the situation is particularly difficult for small municipalities. About 1 million. kr for church activities is an average in small municipalities. This is money to go to education and to diaconia, as well as for the maintenance of perhaps several older churches — so one does not get involved. There is therefore a need to take action in relation to the small municipalities and to ensure that the Church has a better financial situation, so that at least the maintenance of protective churches is properly maintained. Evaluation of the reform of faith training shows that it has started well, and that the Council of Churches and all of them have been loyal to the decisions and the leadership of the Stortinge. The majority of the Stortinget this time will try to give a small lead in getting into dialogue with the different religious and life-view societies. We're asking the Church to consider whether it wouldn't make sense to draw this perspective more heavily into the education reform. We also point out that the services are reorganised and ask the municipalities to assess whether it would not be reasonable to have a corresponding reorganization of the rest of the church. It has been shown that the reorganisation of the performance service has been sensible. There may be resource-saving with similar cooperation for the rest of the Church, and there may be advantages to picking up. The majority proposes to change the fund's rate of return. It is time to use the returns of the fund and not lock parts of it, because the need to do something about old and protective churches is great. We propose to amend the law – we are aware that the Council of State has also suggested this – so that more can be used for the maintenance of church protection. This isn't losing the fund, this is using the returns. I would like to stress that. We also ask that consideration be given to whether parts of the capitalisation can be taken out, to be used for the maintenance of protective churches. This is also not a bottling of the fund, it is taking out parts of the return. If this is allowed – if this is possible – we do not know. We're asking the Church to evaluate it. In the end, we ask that the research work directed at stave churches be strengthened. NICU has been responsible for this so far. We are aware that NICU is not the reason why this has not worked well enough, but there is a need to increase knowledge — and generate new knowledge — in this area. We ask the Council of State to assess whether there are other ways to organise that part of the activity.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-03.ana.ud1333e229	Norway is not a value-neutral country, nor has there been any popular demand for a neutral country. I think it's a more academic exercise that's being practiced on the Blind. In the position of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, a clear majority concludes that we should continue to have constitutional clauses that refer to the Church. In other words, it is concluded that the state should also have an attitude on life views. ‘Most of all’ are the words used as a heading of the faith training reform, a faith training reform that we have adopted – and committed ourselves to implementing. Life-vision training and security of identity are prerequisites for the meeting between people and cultures. In a society of great religious and cultural diversity, its identity and understanding of its own cultural heritage are crucial. For the Central Party, it is important to support wholeheartedly the reform of belief training. The church's own starting point and goal is that the Church's follow-up of children and young people should give ground for respect and tolerance in meeting those who have a different belief or outlook on life. In a majority comment, the Centre Party, the Workers' Party and SV emphasise the importance of religious dialogue. One thing is religious dialogue between leaders, another is religious dialogue between people. The security of one’s own position is a prerequisite for good dialogue. There are meetings between individuals that create realities. Further stepping up the reform of faith training is important in order to provide security in terms of their identity and their own faith. We in the Central Party – as I have already said – will follow up on appropriations, so that this important reform is implemented in a good and dignified way. The Norwegian Church boasts many – with both doubt and faith. Many feel distance from the Church, but at the same time identity — something that can sometimes be difficult to interpret. At home in Romedal one has respect for the Church as an institution, while one feels close to the local Romedal church. My impression is that popular faith is strong, but that you find different forms. When polling firms try to measure faith – as we have seen in various tabloid headlines – they are condemned to fail, because faith is very personal. The diversity of large and small churches we have around the country is an important part of our cultural heritage and of our identity. We've let the maturity go too far. It is important that, not least in the case of medieval churches, there is a strong state co-responsibility to ensure maintenance. It is therefore very good that the Government will now come back offensively with a strategy for ensuring a proper level of maintenance for all peaceful and protective churches, not least medieval churches. The relationship between a strengthened municipal economy and a strengthened church economy is strong. The municipal lift, which we're implementing this year, is a first step in the right direction. If the promise had not been so strong, it would have facilitated the cuts in the appropriations of the church councils. In my home municipality, Strange, the Church was one of the great budget winners. It received a further NOK 500000 after political treatment. I would also like to make a small remark about structure. The identity of people is largely linked to the local church, the local parish. Therefore, any limit changes in the individual parish must come from below, not above. This is about the anchoring of individuals. Finally, I would like to say that I am pleased that there is so much consensus in the Storting on this message: there is a broad consensus that the agreed reforms should be carried out in a proper way, and that the Storing should jointly take responsibility for strengthening the Church and giving extra resources to a strengthened people's church.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-03.ana.ud1333e252	This paper is primarily a report on the Church’s financial position per year. today. As a result, there have been no major political fronts in the process of setting. To be completely honest, I think the processing of the message has also been a little bit influenced by the while-we-wait-on-Government. It is in connection with the position of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection that the great debate on the state's relationship with the Church will be taken in the future. Whether or not a distinction is made — in any case, there are likely to be substantial changes. What has been one of the issues of discussion, which we have also heard from the pulpit here today, is the relationship with the Information Society's fund. The Executive Committee believes that it is time to decide on the Information Service's fund for the setting up of the Gejønes Committee to be dealt with in Stortinget, because this is a major issue. It is the ownership of the Information Society's fund. Where does the funds of the Information Society's fund come from? And what should be done in the meantime in terms of the return and inflation adjustment of the fund? I think it's a little sad that those who are in position don't take the same starting point and see this in a big context. The representative Reikvam thought that the inflation adjustment could be dropped. Inflation adjustment is only about maintaining the value of the fund, not reducing the real value of the fund, for example. for the maintenance of churches. To put it bluntly, it could perhaps be suggested that Reikvam in this way promotes a proposal for an action rule for the use or bottling of the Information Society's fund. That seems regrettable to the Progress Party in a situation where we are now facing major fundamental discussions about the relationship between state and church. As is well known, the Progress Party was opposed to the Faith Training Reform. We have acknowledged that Storting has a different view of it. However, we are concerned that the reform will be properly evaluated in the course of the process – not only internally among those who are subject to the reform of CSR; the ministry must also carry out an evaluation on the road before this first five-year period has passed. We're counting on the government to take it with us. As mentioned above, the Communication is a clean report on economic status and it is valuable in the process we are dealing with in relation to the Gender Committee. We know what the Church's economic situation is per. Now, and there's something we have to include in the discussion about the relationship between church and state that comes. We have our own note on church buildings. Since this is also the theme of an interpellation later today, we will take the main argument there. But it is important for us to point out that the status and situation on the maintenance side of very many churches clearly show that the municipalities have not been able to discharge their maintenance responsibilities properly. We have to do something about that. As I said, we will come back to it later today. I also registered that the representative Rikvam took up part of the recruitment process from this pulpit. I noted in particular that Rikvam is opening up to strengthen church democracy and that it is important that church democracy be given trust. But on the other hand, he slaps them a little bit over their fingers and says that when they get that trust, they don't do it right, and that's why you want a political override methodology. It's the Progress Party skeptical of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-03.ana.ud1333e271	The issue of case policy is widely agreed in this committee position. First of all, there is a broad consensus on having a sensible and good organisation for the Norwegian Church, and there is also a broad consensus on ensuring the funding of the reform of belief and life vision. That is important, because I think that these relationships should be seen in the context of one important point in the position of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, and that is the point where everyone in the selection, regardless of its background, agrees, namely that the religious and life-view society of Norway – in terms of diversity, respect for the individual and for freedom of belief and life – depends on the existence of a generous and genuine public support. This is broad – it also includes the currently celebrated Human-Ethical Union, which is taking part in the argument that religion and outlook for life have their place in public space. And if it is to have its place in civil society Norway, there must also be real, sensible and good funding. It is important to remember this in a debate like the one we have today, because it is an important starting point in front of other parts of the Gehønnes Committee's investigation on the distinction between church and state. In the context of the reform of faith training, it is also important for a reason beyond the reform itself. The faith training reform we have received is a reform that applies not only to the Norwegian Church but also to all religious and life views in Norway. In other words, in that reform there is also a heavy effort to draw what can become a religious policy in Norway, i.e. a religious policy as well as a church policy. If you go back to the Genealogy Committee, it's important to note again that there's the same basic community between all those who are represented there; the will to create the conditions for such a policy. It's important in these times. In a time of as much cultural and ethical breaking as it can be between major religions, it is very important that there are are arenas for mutual respect and arenas for meeting places. Then there's one real political relationship that I feel the need to attach some notes to, and that's the Information Society's fund. At that point, the entire opposition has abstained from what might otherwise have been quite interesting, namely running a polemic exercise. We have renounced it, by it, in my opinion, heavy, important reason that the handling of the Information Society's fund is – I think, on behalf of the Left, but I think others also think the idea – quite important for the Government's handling of the Government's position in relation to the relationship between state and church. On behalf of the opposition – on behalf of myself and the Left, at least – I want to give an outstretched hand to the government council that has itself asked for a chance to deal with the issue in such a way that the debate can withstand tensions, and wanted to refrain from short-term infection around the Information Society's fund. But it goes without saying that it also calls for a reflection of the Government, that it looks at that point in itself and says that it will take up the fund for an overall assessment in the context of the debate on the relationship between state and church. Here's an inner choice. How to deal with the internal election, I think it means something far outside the relationship between the parties in this hall. It also means something in relation to the big state-church debate that we're going to have. As far as that debate is concerned, I think it is important to extend the hand. Then we will not go to the polemics – even if it may be tempting to do so at times – especially because some of us have enough numeracy to know what the situation might be. But I think it's important to point out from my side that once we've progressed that way, it's not to create a polemic tone in that area. Then we'd better let everyday people decide how the fund is handled. But the big test, as I said, is that the fund is managed where it deserves to be managed, namely, seen in the context of the future relationship between state and church in Norway, and that all attempts, I believe, to advance the fund in different contexts can quickly bring unrest into that discussion. I don't really see that anyone has added up. I also perceive that you do not want to do so – therefore this specific marking. Finally, I would like to comment that there are some different ways of expressing this in the Committee, but the Committee is pleased with the regional dialogue that is taking place, both in the church context and in relation to other religious communities in Norway. I too, as the representative of the Left, welcome the dialogue and all the work done in building meeting places in such a context. It deserves to be commended from this pulpit.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-03.ana.ud1333e284	The Bondevik II Government presented St.meld in June 2005. No 41 for 2004–2005 on the economy of the Norwegian Church. The background to the message was the wish that Stortinget had presented itself with a review of the church economy. After the government change in the harvest, we saw no reason to withdraw or correct this message. The reason for this is that the message primarily presents figures and trends drawn from church accounts around the churches, which we have to assume are correct regardless of who is in government. The notification also describes the reform and renewal work carried out in the Church today and a presentation of the Information Society Fund. As a whole, I believe that the message provides an informative picture of the church economic situation, while pointing to specific challenges. I believe that the committee position on the communication shows that there is broad consensus in the Grand Duchy on the challenges we face in the church economy. I'm glad. In fact, today we are discussing the church economy within the framework of today's church system. Perhaps there will be greater disagreement when the state church system and possibly completely new forms of funding for the Church come to discussion. But also in the meantime the Church's life is to be lived, and then it's a good thing for the Church that there's such a broad consensus among the parties about what it's important to work for within today's system. In the setting there is a separate section on the maintenance situation of church buildings and churches. Today, this is probably one of the biggest and most important challenges in the field of church economics. In an interview later today, this topic will be the subject of wide-ranging debate. So I don't see any reason to go into detail right now. Nevertheless, I would like to stress that the oldest churches are among our most important cultural memories. The churches are strong symbol bearers of local identity and belonging. They are not museum objects, but are still in use as living churches. It is therefore important to get started properly on restoration and maintenance. Church buildings are the responsibility of municipalities, and already with the introduction of interest-rate compensation schemes several municipalities have taken a roof and started restoration. I want to come back to Stortinget with further measures to give more municipalities priority to this work. For several of the churches, especially the oldest, it is urgent if they are to remain in use. In the committee setting, there are detailed comments on the reform of CSR. The majority of the Committee, all with the exception of the Advance Party, emphasises the importance of the reform. The majority say that the rate of funding for the reform must therefore be maintained. I noticed that. Training reform is today an important field of action within the Norwegian Church. Strengthening the training of faith among the baptized Church is important in itself, because baptism and baptism training belong together in the Christian Church. Pending the debate on the major and difficult issues raised by a possible new church system, the reform work in the Norwegian Church cannot stop. An important theme is the organisation of the local church, its structural and material framework conditions. Just as municipalities are challenged for conversion and innovation, the Church is also challenged locally to think about organisation, new forms of cooperation and a different division of tasks and work. With as many church councils as municipalities and with approx. 1 300 councils are highly vulnerable to church administration and church operations in many places. I read the committee setting so that the entire committee agrees that the attention of the central team should now be focused on experimental and development measures that can strengthen church administration, especially in the smallest municipalities, as it is where economic growth has been weakest in recent years. I will follow that up, while stressing – like the Committee – that this kind of change must take place in cooperation with and at the request of those affected locally. In parallel with these kinds of organizational improvements, I want to look at how democracy can be strengthened in relation to different church bodies. It is worrying that the activity and participation of the members of the congregation are still alarmingly low. The so-called proste reform has received a separate mention in the committee position. This reform not only includes specific changes to the prosthetics but has effects on the whole of the Church’s services. It is pointless to rank the importance of this reform against other church reforms, for example. the reform of faith training. Reforms involving church administration, better priestly service, and faith training belong together. I would therefore like to give more than support to those who believe that the current reorganisation and conversion of the services is of great importance in developing an increasingly viable performance. In this reform, no one should be a loser. The aim is for the priests to have a better working day, and the communities to have at least as good a service as before. With regard to the Committee's comments on the Information Society Fund, I do not see any reason to comment extensively on the issues raised. As the Committee is aware, this month a legislative proposal will be promoted on the inflation protection of the Fund. This matter will be referred to the Committee in a short time. The way in which the Fund’s funds can be used to refurbish church buildings will be assessed by the Ministry in the future. Of course, the cancellation will have the matter dealt with.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-03.ana.ud1333e307	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-03.ana.ud1333e311	There is a broad political consensus that the maintenance of Norwegian church buildings is large. The interest-rate compensation scheme continued by the Progress Party in the budgetary agreement with the Bondevik Government has helped to improve the situation somewhat. A possible outcome of the forthcoming debate on the separation of state and church may be that municipalities acquire ownership of church buildings. What will the Council of State do to correct the neglected election team, so that the state can leave this part of our cultural heritage in a way that does not make the churches a further financial burden for Norwegian municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-03.ana.ud1333e318	The situation is already that the municipalities have the primary responsibility for the church buildings, and a significant tool for maintaining and upgrading the churches is a solid municipal economy. So what we did after we took over the government power last fall, strengthening the municipal economy by NOK 5.7 billion, is the main contribution to the municipalities being able to care for their church buildings. Not only in major rehabilitation projects, but also in the day-to-day business – from keeping it warm in winter and leaking roofs to ensuring that the churches have the operating economy they need – the municipal economy is the key. In addition to that, we want to look at the program, for example. the lending system, and also the way in which the Information Society's fund could be used to strengthen church buildings to a greater extent, with particular emphasis on the very oldest of our churches.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-03.ana.ud1333e323	There is reason to be satisfied and positive that there is a broad consensus as to the church economy in general. I also think that this is a good promise in view of the subsequent processes and discussions that we are going to have, among other things. on State-Church. Nevertheless, there are currently processes in connection with several aspects of the Information Society's fund, and I want to address it to the Council of State. It is quite clear that if these various proposals presented were to be implemented, either individually or collectively, it could have a very negative impact on the fund's ability to serve its purpose. My question to the Council of State is whether the Department and the Council of State have an overview of the impact these proposals could have on the Church – for the Fund itself in the short and long term.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-03.ana.ud1333e332	We come back to that matter when we promote a proposition to change the inflation insurance target of the Information Society Fund – there is one type of action. The fund is then allocated less year by year, and more that can be taken out for other purposes. My approach to this is that it is sound, especially if you spend this extra money on permanent investments in the Church. If you start eating from the fund for increased operating resources, you get to drive quickly, because then you eat from a fund that can't maintain that operation. But moving capital from the Information Society's fund into other capital that is at least equally important to the Church, namely in solid church buildings that are to the delight of the business to be run in the Church, I believe is a proper transfer of capital from one type of fund to another type of valuable investment. It's the kind of approach we have to the use of the Information Society's fund.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-03.ana.ud1333e337	I take the opportunity to move on from what I said in my post to the Council of State, and from the point of view of the Information Society's fund, which, for my part, I regard as very important in relation to the future relationship between state and church. I take note of what the Council of State has now said about inflation adjustment. However, I would strongly urge the Council of State to consider how to look at the fund as a whole – after what he himself has said in relation to the government's handling of the Committee on the Remuneration, and the extensive hand the Government has given to others that the handling should be as good as possible – against other considerations that the Government might have. I would strongly encourage it, and I am basically responding to the reflections of the Council of State on this. It's not always the language of the Storting, but I do it because of the nature of the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-03.ana.ud1333e342	I would like to participate with the representative Dørum in a reflection on the Information Society's fund, but we may also have to deal with it in a formal way on the day we may make changes to the State Church system. I think the Committee on Budgets really has a pretty good approach, namely that this is finally a political decision. You can't legally determine where the Information Society's fund belongs. The state church is a state church, and the foundation is a natural part of it as the state property through the state church system we have. The question will be a beautiful day, if we make a difference, if we want to get along like a morning gift The Information Society's fund – not a wedding gift, but a divorce gift – and of course what compensation schemes we should have for other religious communities, where we have a principle of equal treatment in relation to financial support. All these questions I think we'll take when we come to a possible conclusion on the question of a distinction. I am ready for an open dialogue around it, also with the representative Dørum and the opposition in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-03.ana.ud1333e349	The representative Gåsvatn was exposed to what I call the standard response from the Government for the time being. Whether it is about 10,000 new hands in the care sector, a better school, more environmental activity or sport and culture for children, the answer is that the improved community economy will deal with this. So also in this context, where the Council of State says that the improved local economy will help solve the maintenance of the churches. The only thing is that the maintenance allowance for the churches is in the order of NOK 8 billion, and after I remind you of the budgetary procedure, the extra transfers to the local government sector were far from this amount. And when you have to do all the other tasks within the same framework, how can the Council explain that this argument is related?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-03.ana.ud1333e356	Fast headcount indicates that the interest cost of an investment of approximately NOK 8 billion would amount to approx. 400 million. kr. We increased support for municipalities far beyond that, so it's not supposed to compare annual operating increases with total investment costs. After all, we were criticized for cutting something in the transfers to the community councils in the municipalities. I record that the increase we had in the municipal economy only in the progressive party-driven Oslo was enough to reverse the proposal of the church code, which was larger than the overall cut on the church council. Thus, the church economy of the municipalities came strengthened by the solid increase in the municipal economy. I also record that we have not yet received a single letter from either a party board or a right-wing municipality saying that too much money has been given to the municipalities, and that the money should also be taxed. So I think we're on the right track.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-03.ana.ud1333e363	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-03.ana.ud1333e368	A unanimous increase in the last period gave support to the Government's desire to carry out a broad investigation of the future relations between state and church. In that perspective, the economic relationship between state and church is also a central part of such an investigation. I am somewhat surprised that the majority in the position is so concerned about making short-term changes in this situation where the Council of State has said that he will take good time — I think it is all worth it — to carry out a proper political treatment of this. It surprises me that, in this particular situation, it has been very busy to take action that substantially changes the conditions for the economic interaction between the state and the church. The majority say that it is regrettable that if the fund is restated, part of the earnings of the Information Society fund will not be used as an alternative. It is with respect to notify to turn the matter upside down. Virtually all the funds and grants I know in the Norwegian community have requirements not only for inflation adjustment, most people have statutory requirements that a percentage of annual returns should be allocated to capital, not only to prevent a deterioration in capital, but to ensure an increase in capital. It also opens up the possibility to dispose of the fund capital, which is the most short-term of all forms of management of savings. I can only understand that it would have to be advisable for the Stortinge when one has now embarked on a comprehensive and proper long-term discussion of what is the desirable relationship between the State and the Church, that during that period one should be able to make such kind of changes, precisely in order to take a position on it in the long-term perspective. What distinguishes the Information Society's fund from other funds in that country is that the Information Society's fund is the only one that is constitutional, in fact. I then find it alarming that the Stortinget, which is responsible for the Constitution, believes that this fund can be treated far more freely and disposed of for much more short-term purposes than is usual for funds in general. And then finally, I also heard with amazement the representative of Reikvam's notion of church democracy. If I understood Rikvam correctly, he believes that the part of the Church which is democratic, as he said, is the part which at all times shares the view of the representative Rikvam, while people who disagree with Rikvam, per. definition is undemocratic. It's a very special definition of democracy.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-03.ana.ud1333e379	One cannot protect himself against Inge's perception of what you're saying. What I tried to say, and what I said, was that I recorded that in a special case there was a clear imbalance between what was a unanimous attitude and what the majority did. I think it is quite alarming that those who have conducted all the interviews, those who have done all the preliminary work, are discouraged when it comes to final voting. That's what I was trying to say. Something else I haven't talked about at all. So I'm surprised that the representative Inge Wohnning can say that investing in the maintenance of medieval churches and other churches is short-sighted. For me, the most important thing is to take care of the values, to invest and use financial capital to take care of the assets, in this case church buildings. It's long-term. I'm also surprised that Inge Wohnung and others think it's right and fair that we're doing away with a certain number of millions of dollars that we could spend on maintenance, from a political decision, because we're putting them right to the fund. Here we might be talking about tens of millions of dollars that we can get released because we're not adding them to the fund, but using them for maintenance. No salary and others should be significantly more concerned about the development of the share price in view of the size of the fund than if we are going to spend a certain number of millions more on church buildings. As long as at least part of this fund is invested in share capital, the development of the stock market is even more important than if we spend a few million more than what Inge Wages and others want. This is not about anything short-sighted, as I said, and it has nothing to do with the debate on state-church. It's about how we're going to use some of the returns in the years to come. Here we talk about relatively many years. The distinction between state and church cannot be reached until 2014. Here we might be talking about a ten-year period. We can't put everything on ice and we can't discuss such important questions because maybe in 2014 – hopefully – we will get a distinction between state and church. When it comes to using capital appreciation, we ask the Ministry to assess whether it is possible to do so. It is possible that it is not allowed, it is possible that there are restrictions in the Constitution, as Inge Wohnung said. That's why we say we ask the department to evaluate. Our goal is that this money that is released should be used for church purposes, either maintenance or other purposes. That should be the concern of both the Right Party and the Christian People's Party, rather than the fact that they are being hunted down.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-03.ana.ud1333e393	I assumed that the representative Reikvam in his main post referred to the ‘democratic part of our church’ – that was the expression. And the ‘democratic part of our church’ obviously does not belong to the majority of the Church Council, according to Reikvam, in the matter he now referred to. I have always understood that when a decision-making body takes a decision that is different from that of an adjustment body and the administration, it is exactly the expression of the principle of democracy. But Rikvam obviously sees democracy in the opposite direction. It is only democracy if the determining body follows the position it has been given. I believe that my understanding of democracy is preferable to that of the representative of Rikvams, but he is, of course, free to keep his definition. With regard to the Information Society's fund, I have found that one can imagine making changes in one way or another, precisely at a time when one is working on a comprehensive, long-term reform of the economic relations between the State and the Church. And that's what I find hard to understand, that you have to define it as an urgent matter in the middle of a much larger and much more challenging long-term political decision. In addition to the things I have mentioned, it is also the political issue that we know that the government parties have signalled that they will be able to work on transferring significant parts of the fund value to private people through a special sale scheme for land properties at a particularly favourable price. It is amazing that a government that is otherwise engaged in Community rhetoric and the protection of Community values will transfer this, as of course Community values, to private individuals, who will be able to cashe in the increase of capital on a free basis afterwards. My point is the same as the representative of Dørums. I think that in this context we should be able to afford to take the time to see this in the broad context, because in the broad sense, we are talking about a 50-100-year perspective ahead of time, not getting the annual budgets together. It is excellent to invest both in the maintenance of church buildings and in other things, but the point is that these are tasks that per person. Today, by Norwegian law, the municipalities are imposed. And at the moment you use the fund capital of the Information Society's fund, you do something that actually repeals the law that the Storting itself has given.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-03.ana.ud1333e406	The representative, Mr Rikvam, has spoken twice in the past and is given the floor for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-03.ana.ud1333e409	I record that the representative Inge Wohnning operates with the big connection and has the big perspective. I guess he used a 50-60-year perspective. The perspective is no bigger than that it was in the last period, I think, the majority of the population decided to change the rules for inflation adjustment. This was a change that was the result of a progress party proposal here on the Stortinget, which the then government parties followed up. The big relationship and the big perspective are no longer than that, and what we are now proposing to do – a change in the law – is to go back to the system that we had before, when those who made up the majority in the last period decided to change the inflation adjustment. But I want to stress once again that it's not our goal at all to drain the fund. And as I said before: No pay and others should be more concerned about price developments in the stock market than if we are going to spend tens of millions more on church maintenance. That would be a good investment!
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-03.ana.ud1333e416	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1798]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-03.ana.ud1333e436	We've been reminded in recent months of how important religious affiliation is to many people, and we've seen the importance of fighting for freedom of faith. The debate we have had earlier today on the Church's economy is also about facilitating religion and life's vision to be an important part of the Norwegian community locally and nationally. We know that preserving our churches is important to the individual's faith and to the congregation. The Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Education, Education and Research's circular of 2000 states: «The protection of church buildings and cemeteries is motivated by the objective of keeping Christian faith and Christian values alive in the individual community and in society as a whole.» It is also important to preserve the churches because they are central symbols of local community and anchoring, and they help to strengthen the identity of the community. We see that many people apply to the churches when there is a celebration or mourning in the village. Our churches are important landmarks, and they have a task even though the surroundings have changed and people may no longer be so active in the church. Few people don't care about the church building. It shows the reactions of people when churches have been lit or vandalized. Or as we see in Alta these days, where there is popular migration to see the model of the church that they want to be built – now in ice. Not least, it is important to preserve our churches because they are our most valuable cultural memories. The churches represent our common national cultural heritage. In Norway we have not had nobles, mansions or so many royal dwellings. Our common resources were gathered in the churches. Our church art is unique, because Norway was such a poor country that we couldn't replace it, so we took care of it. Therefore, the churches are also our most important historical sources and buildings in terms of architecture, art and construction development. In the churches, therefore, several have experienced their first meeting with art. Despite the valuable position of the churches, they have been too poorly maintained. In Norway today, there are 1 600 churches. 219 are protected and 761 are protected. According to estimates from the Riksantikvaren, it is currently granted approx. $3 billion too little to repair, and $135 million. kr are missing for maintenance. This applies only to the peaceful and protective churches. Probably one will have to adjust the numbers even higher, as these estimates describe a minimum of what is needed. The calculations of the Riksantikvaren also cover only refurbishment according to the current situation. If we include an upgrade of the church buildings, the amount is much higher. For all church buildings in the country, a minimum refurbishment and upgrade requirement of NOK 8 billion has been calculated. The lapse and delays in maintenance as we see are enormous. These tasks are big and demanding. Unfortunately, we do not have a good and concrete plan today to improve this. While we wait and think, and hopefully work, decay and shut down churches. It's urgent to find a solution, and we need action now. The church decay is not something that started yesterday or last year, we all know that. It's been going on for years. This interpellation debate is not worthy of blame allocation. My hope and my desire to raise this debate today is that we can agree that we need a greater bet than the one we have seen so far, and that we are also willing to give priority to such a bet. The grant selection points to maturity as just one of the main challenges, and that we have to do something about this regardless of any distinction between state and church. There is also a collective church that wants to take some action, it was emphatically expressed at the Church Council meeting on 22 March this year. The councils also made great expectations when he visited the church meeting in November. The Church is now calling for action. The 2005 interest-reimbursement scheme is a good contribution to the municipal funding of the refurbishment of churches, but it does not cover the large delay. The Cultural Memory Fund is a great success. It's increased from 400 million. NOK 800 million. in the last few years, and it has been said that this is the first step in the escalation plan. But despite this, today’s returns do not keep up with the needs that exist. I would also like to mention here that the way my party and I see it, is to bottle up the Information Society's Fund for Money a very bad strategy for the future. Much of the decay and the weathering of cultural memories is due to the well-known local economy. It is the churches that mainly own the churches, and so it should still be. According to the Church Act, municipalities are also obliged to pay for maintenance, but it is unrealistic to believe that municipalities can take this task on their own, as the situation is today. We see that, unfortunately, the municipalities do not give too much priority to church buildings. Also recent figures from the Church employers' and interest groups show that the local church has seen little about the extra municipal funds from the Government this year. We therefore need a coup d'état from the state to correct the situation. The Gjønnes Committee believes that the Swedish model should be chosen to secure church buildings. In Sweden, they have a «Church Antiquarian Remuneration» for the additional costs involved in preserving cultural memories. It was a requirement when the Swedish Church was to be separated from the state, that one should receive an annual compensation from the state to pay the church cultural taxes. In 1996, the additional cost was set at 460 million. Swedish kr. The difference between Norway and Sweden is that Sweden does not have the significant slowdown that we unfortunately have. Our problem is strange, and then the solutions must also be strange. The Swedish model can be good, but only after the aftermath has been taken. There are different models we can land on, perhaps the Pre-Memory Association proposes: a three-way state action package. But the central thing in all the models is that government appropriations need to be increased, and that there is a need for a fissure layer. I look forward to hearing the Council of State's thoughts on this later in this interpellation debate. A lot of money is needed because the maturity is urgent and the maintenance is extensive, but increased appropriations are not enough. If we are to be able to care for the church heritage and work with older churches, we also need extensive competence in the practical refurbishment of older buildings and interiors and knowledge of church history. NIKU, the Norwegian Institute of Cultural Memory Research, currently has the professional oversight of the maintenance and conservation of churches. They believe that the extensive refurbishment that can and should come can quickly become a disaster scenario for our cultural heritage if we do not also have a similar level of competence, both locally and centrally. In the case of the Stallkirche programme, good tradesmen have been trained. We have to make sure that this knowledge is documented so that more people can use it. In general, there is a shortage of persons with relevant craft skills and experience from practical cultural memory crafts. I'm afraid Oslo Domkirke is a magnificent copy of a posterity. Here, the break-up is postponed from after Easter to August, because they are struggling to find good suppliers, because their skills are lacking. Only to meet the competence needs of repairing the copper installations in Oslo Cathedral, we would clear the whole of the North for craftsmen for a period of time. In order to gain more knowledge and documentation about the implementation and restoration of our churches, we need to invest in research on this too is the field. It is, as I see it, therefore unfortunate that the Research Council today does not have any programs that are open to this. If we are to stop the decay of our churches, we must therefore focus on research and investigation and start developing action-oriented knowledge, and we must make this competence widely available. I am therefore keen to hear what measures the Council of State will take in relation to strengthening this part of the building in order to preserve the cultural heritage that our churches are.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-03.ana.ud1333e486	The matter of the decay of the churches has been discussed here in Stortinget several times, without any significant grip being taken to prevent a growing decay. The situation of church buildings has been a recurring theme in recent years, not only in the Grand Duchy, but throughout the public debate. This reflects people's understanding and valuation of church buildings. The oldest churches are among our most important cultural memories. The churches are strong symbol bearers of local identity and belonging. They are not museum objects, but are still in use as living churches. It's no wonder that the commitment to maturity is great, both in church, cultural, political and local environments. Many have claimed that it is unworthy that as a nation we are unable to preserve the cultural heritage and the art tax that the churches represent. Two years ago, in June 2004, the Minister of Culture and the Church at that time, Valgerd Svarstad Haugland, replied to an interview from the representative of the Magnificent Eva M. Nielsen from the Workers' Party. The interpellation at that time is to confusion similar to that now set by the representative Holten Hemdal of the Christian People's Party. Question at the time: ‘Can the Council of State explain what she will do to prevent the country’s church buildings from falling due?’ Two years later, the representative of the Christian People's Party asks the question about what I want to do to avoid a further church decay. The interpellation must be a recognition that the time since the last interpellation has not been used well enough in this case. In his reply at the time, the Minister of Culture and the Church at that time gave hope that something would be done by the state. A little has happened, however. Neither the cultural memory announcement nor the big message about the church economy, both presented by the Bondevik II government in the spring of 2005, provided offensive answers. The most concrete thing that has happened is the interest compensation scheme for the refurbishment of churches, which came into the State budget for 2005, but then as a result of the negotiations in the United Kingdom. The maintenance situation for many church buildings has been found to be very poor, partly alarmingly poor. Several trade unions have calculated the refurbishment, upgrade and maintenance needs of the churches, and they have all concluded that the need equals billions of dollars. Let me still nuance this gloomy picture somewhat. We have approx. 1 600 churches in our country. It is not that all of these soon collapse due to poor maintenance, or that the situation of Oslo Cathedral applies to all the churches. I think it is very important in this debate to insist that many churches are actually in good condition. Many communities, communities and municipalities have maintained their churches in an excellent way, with regular and good maintenance. We must not forget that. I would also like to add that the recent years have developed mechanisms that represent important key actions towards church buildings. There is a central system of insurance for churches, central measures are initiated for fire prevention purposes, and there is continuous work on various energy-saving measures, such as: has a bearing on safeguarding the Church's art treasures. Over the course of two years, a nationwide thermography of all churches is now being carried out, which means that risk elements related to electrical installations are being revealed. The national church building database provides church workers and others with a better management tool, and we all get more systematic knowledge and documentation about the individual church. The Norwegian Institute of Cultural Memory Research is also developing a database for the registration and construction of research-based knowledge of the churches. As the interpellant is familiar with, in June 2005, the Stortinget asked the government to develop a strategy for the care of our older churches. This request decision is permanent and ongoing. That the Government will deal with this matter with an offensive attitude, otherwise the Soria Moria Declaration makes it clear. It is said that, among other things, the Government will ensure a sound level of maintenance of church protection and ‘construct financially for enhanced maintenance of church buildings’. It is the peaceful and protective churches that have received the most public attention, based on their status as culturally important churches. The Government and the Norwegian Church have devoted a chapter to the need to do something about the protective churches. The Church, Education and Research Committee has also pointed out, in its recent attitude to the paper on the Church Economy, that it is important that something be done for the oldest churches. I can promise that as Minister of Culture and the Church, I will follow the request decision of the Storting and the intentions of the Soria Moria Declaration. As I said, work is in progress in the department. I expect to be more specific about the content of what we can call a protection strategy for the churches, when the 2007 state budget is presented. Finally, let me remind you that it is the municipalities that have the statutory financial responsibility for the maintenance of the churches here to the country. Strengthening the local economy is therefore very important in itself to enable municipalities to carry out their tasks in relation to church buildings. In the 2006 government budget, the government, as known for its significant growth in the municipal sector, provided a real increase in the free revenues of municipalities of DKK 5.7 billion. The responsibility of local communities for their churches has been bearer from ancient times. In my opinion, central contributions and measures in the field of church construction should be based on this assumption. A vague division of responsibilities between the state and the municipalities in this area, I think, could create a difficult situation, in fact, to the detriment of the maintenance of church buildings. We will contribute with specific actions and initiatives. But the most important thing we can do is to make sure that the municipalities have a solid enough economy to take on the responsibility they actually have for the churches.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-03.ana.ud1333e515	I thank you for your answer. At least it will be exciting to see where we stand in two years' time – not where we stood two years ago, but where we are two years ahead. That must also be what we are to be judged for. I gave the Council of State an opportunity now not to share in the distribution of blame, but rather to think in the future. I therefore challenge the Council of State once again what he wants to do in terms of strengthening the trade unions, so that we not only grant money, but that the money that is allocated is used correctly – even as regards what the Council of State says it is the municipalities that have the statutory responsibility for maintenance. Yes, we agree. But when KA, the Church's employers' and interest groups, in their summary for all the churches now in March, says that they have seen little of this strengthening, it says at least that the 5.7 billion kroner may not have reached out to all the churches that the Council of State and also the undersigned had hoped to see these 5.7 billions. The challenge will then be if the Council of State is willing to agree to find models where the State is looking for solutions other than those that lie here now, also in addition to those of the Riksantikvaren and the Cultural Memory Fund. Does the Council of State agree that a greater roof is needed on the part of the state to strengthen and protect our churches? The statistics referred to by the Council of State in the previous case also show that the myth of the empty churches fits poorly with the statistics presented in the Single European Act. It is true that in 2003 there were between 10 and 11 million participants either by religious services or by church rituals. It's in line with the cinema search in Norway that same year. And for those who are interested in football: the audience record in the summit this year was unfortunately only 1.2 million. So it shows that the Church is being used. It's not an empty museum site, but it's an important place to take care of our cultural heritage. If we are to take care of our cultural heritage, I believe that we need to strengthen our professional environments, while at the same time putting more money on the table in order for us to cope with this fissure layer in a better way than we have done so far.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-03.ana.ud1333e526	The refurbishment and maintenance of church buildings is basically not a spice layer. It is the municipalities that are responsible for the church buildings. It's a desperate situation. I really don't understand the strategy, that year after year, under-funding of the local economy is going to occur in such a way as to create a huge aftermath on, for example, the local economy. maintenance of the churches, and then you have to bring in your own ear-marked state schemes to re-enter the aftermath. Then we believe from the Government that it is a much better arrangement to provide such a solid community economy in the municipalities that they actually have the opportunity to take the responsibility they are charged with. It is also about local freedom of action and the ability to make priorities within its own budgets. So we strengthened the municipal economy in 2006 by DKK 5.7 billion. We are going to continue in 2007 with a real strengthening of the local economy, and I hope that at least we have the Christian People's Party's support for such a strategy. But then we're in the desperate situation that we have a great aftertaste, and it's hard to do what hasn't been done before. So the state has to go in. We have loan arrangements, we also have the opportunity to look at the use of the Information Society's fund, and of course we have training programmes, especially for the small subjects that may be providing a competence and a knowledge that is otherwise in the process of dying out. Now it's the responsibility of another state council. But it is clear that the more such programmes we have, the closer cooperation we have, we also need to have with the educational institutions and the professional communities that provide that kind of competence. I'm most concerned about the oldest churches. Among the churches from 1650 and earlier, there are still a few hundred churches that need to be looked after, and we should perhaps, on the part of the state, pay the highest attention to those churches that really represent a cultural-historical national tax. We're working on that. We're looking at how the state funds we're going to spend this year and in the years ahead can go as far as possible to the very oldest churches. The size has said, and it lies in the background material of the interest-rate compensation scheme, that even newer churches or new churches should be able to benefit from that scheme. But we are concerned that this money should go to older churches and to the maintenance of churches. I hope I have the big thing's connection to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-03.ana.ud1333e535	Earlier today we dealt with a matter of the Church's economy, and a substantial part of that matter also concerned church buildings. In my contribution to that debate, I was concerned with what, in my opinion, is the most important thing for church buildings, namely the municipal economy. If we look back at debates that have been in this room earlier on exactly the same topic, all parties agree that there is a close link between the community economy and the maintenance of church buildings. It also appeared in the debate two years ago that the local economy was then very tight, and that this was one of the reasons why there was then a big debate about which churches had to be closed. Therefore, I would like to ask whether the interpellant also agrees that there is still a close link between the community economy and the church economy. If that is the case, we can probably also agree that the starting point today is slightly different from the previous one, by the fact that the municipalities now have a significantly larger transfer of free resources from the state. And if the interpellant agrees with this, I will also ask questions about what was in the article in our country today from the interpellant, that it came very little from the municipal minister. I don't define $5.7 billion as small. Then I have registered that not everyone believes that this transfer has benefited the Church from all the places. No, that's probably right. And to put it straight out, it doesn't surprise me either. Our country is so diverse and rich that the challenges are not the same everywhere. There is also something that comes out in St.meld. No 41 for 2004-2005 About the economy of the Norwegian Church. It says that resource use varies a lot around the country. But what surprises me is that a larger transfer to the municipalities is almost used as an argument that there is no positive development anywhere and in all areas. Before I was elected to Stortinget, I was a politician in a small municipality. There we experienced what most other municipalities experienced, that there was a constant discussion of priorities in the main areas, namely care for the elderly and school. Of course, attention in these areas grew as a local economy became increasingly tighter. Hopefully, now that we see that the local economy is improving, I am convinced that it will also benefit church buildings. I am at least happy that we are able to transfer more free funds to the municipalities. The fact that expectations about what these are to be used for have been high may well be the case, but this significant growth in the local economy has not become a problem. That we are impatient in this matter is good. But we have thus come four months into a new fiscal year, and we should be impatient with the matter, and rather more patient with the conclusions and effects of already increased transfers to the municipalities. But we must not forget that there is still considerable work within the Church in improving the organisation and conclusion of agreements, which means that the use of the funds made available is getting better and better. Here I want to get into the cooperation that is between the church council within the same prostitue. This is both exciting and challenging. However, it is not certain that it provides immediate economic savings. But it gives room to exploit skills and personnel in a new way. My point of mentioning this is simply to boast of the Church for its work of constantly looking at its own potential for improvement. That's good. We know that dialogue and information to the granting authority are very important. In this case of maintenance and economics for church buildings, this is no exception. Therefore, there must be a good link between the council and the council and the municipality. We know that municipalities organise it in different ways, but no matter how it is solved, it has to be stressed that there is a good dialogue between the municipality and the church – this in order for the granting authority to have an overview of the level of activity and what kind of resources must be made available in order for the activity to continue as foreseen. However, there are some church buildings that need special attention: peaceful and protective churches, stave churches, medieval churches. It's been pointed out in the past that they need to have a special focus. Here the state has a special responsibility. It's something the Church, Education and Research Committee has also said about when it dealt with the Church's economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-03.ana.ud1333e558	It's an important issue the interpellant addresses. A situation with a planned maintenance seat suspension of approx. 8 billion DKK in church buildings shows that municipalities are poor owners — especially because much of the same situation applies in school buildings. Of these eight billion, it's about. three billion in the case of protected, peaceful and protective churches. So it's 3 billion of these heads that are directly involved in the concern that both the Council of State and the Labour Party's representative here in the pulpit have expressed is a special state responsibility. That's good. The interest compensation scheme for church buildings for which the Advance Party, in cooperation with the previous government, was implemented in 2005, has helped, but that has not been enough. In its alternative State budget, the Progress Party has made proposals to increase the allocation of the interest-rate compensation scheme by an additional 100 million. kr. However, it is asked whether it is not necessary — especially in relation to peaceful and protective buildings — to look more directly at state schemes. Int. S. No 227 for 2004-2005, the Progress Party, together with the Central Party, which is now in government, has a special note as follows: ‘However, this is far from a sufficient instrument to ensure the level of maintenance of the peace and the protection of churches. [[...]] There is a need to make a distinction between what is normal church maintenance and what is antiquarian maintenance. These members believe that all the peaceful churches must be supported by means of the Riksantikvaren. The annual budget appropriations must be sufficient to meet this need.» Then I think it is appropriate to send a direct challenge to the Council of State: Will the Council of State follow up these comments from its central government colleagues, and bring government funds directly to the peaceful and protective churches? I was a little worried about the exchange of lines with the Council of State earlier today on the matter of church economy. There, the Council of State ran a little headcount, and said that the interest compensation scheme or the interest cost of the maintenance allowance is approximately NOK 8 billion. 400 million. kr. If he believes that this is the contribution of the State – that is, that you can contribute to the financing of interest rates – the municipalities will continue to be burdened with the real costs of the maintenance service. It is strange that both the State Council and the Labour Party representative here from the pulpit say that this is no longer a big problem, because the municipalities are getting more money from the Government. This year they got 5.7 billion kroner. I expect that there will be a fairly large growth in the future, too, if you're going to be able to solve the problems the government has said they're going to solve within the free resources. There are 10,000 new hands in care and care. It's individual education for everyone. It is youth housing, cultural and environmental activities for the inhabitants. Everything has to be solved by these free means. But there are a lot of holes in the municipal sector to put the money in. How can the Council of State guarantee from this chair that he will ensure that the holes in the maintenance seat are actually sealed? I think that Stortinget deserves something other than domestic rhetoric about how the long-term local economy has led to the maintenance set-up we are going to solve. In this room, we are committed to finding solutions, and the question is whether the Council of State will help to find solutions, especially relating to the DKK 3 billion to peaceful and protective churches.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-03.ana.ud1333e580	The church buildings are monuments. They are important in many everyday life and in festive contexts, and they are used – it is important to highlight what the interpellant said. The documented maintenance allowance of DKK 8 billion, or how large it is now, is very worrying. I noticed that the Council of State now pointed out that it is the oldest churches that the state has to a great extent enter and take responsibility for. According to my information, we have 194 medieval churches. 28 of these are staves, and the remaining 166 stone churches from the Middle Ages also have significant cultural treasures to be cared for. However, caring for church buildings is a municipal responsibility. Now we're facing a discussion about the setting of the Green Committee, and we'll see if there's any other way to organise it. But we think it's important now, as in particular the representative also mentioned earlier, that you don't take too much action until you get to discuss the situation. We note that the increase in the municipal economy in free money is being driven forward as a solution to almost all kinds of problems facing the municipalities, which the representative Anundsen was also involved in. I think it's worth noting the interest compensation scheme that was introduced by the previous government, where the first 500 million. kr is used, based on the information provided to Stortinget. There is a lot of evidence that there may be a very effective and targeted system to address the maintenance of church buildings. Now you have to have all the respect that this also takes some time, when you're talking about a lag of 8 billion kroner. But you've started using 500 million. kr, it must eventually also begin to appear around the church buildings. I also took note of this with regard to the lift of skills. I think that's a significant challenge. In an area that's been lying down for a long time, it's obvious that when you're going to have a little bit more speed on things, you might simply lack the skills to get speed on it. It's a challenge that you should notice. I think that if only the maintenance takes place, the competence will also develop gradually, but it is important to focus on that as well. So here we are facing significant challenges, which are probably going to be discussed a lot in the future. I think it is at least affordable of the interpellant to have taken this up and got the light directed towards such an important issue for many of us.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-03.ana.ud1333e597	It is an important matter that Line Henriette Holten Heimdal addresses. I have a feeling that we're going a little in circles, and that this has a little bit of a duty cycle. I'm sorry. When I use the word "obligation", it is simply because we have just dealt with the big message about the Church's economy, and I cannot see that the Christian People's Party in the position of that message has made any suggestions or come up with any ideas about what should be done for these church buildings that are about to expire. I had suggested that the Christian People's Party had tried to use that message to launch ideas. The majority point in some areas – it does not solve all the problems, dear friends, there are small adjustments – and we say that the return on the fund can be used for maintenance, and thus can be used in a different way from today by removing the limitations of the inflation adjustment. It's not about many tens of millions, but some tens of millions would be for increased maintenance, if the Christian People's Party had followed up this. We are not talking about losing the fund – I have to stress that again. There is no proposal on our part to drain the fund, but there is a proposal to use a larger share of the return, and it is then to be used for the maintenance of church buildings. I agree with the inter-pellant that a lift of competences is indeed an important challenge. The government parties write in a majority comment on knowledge development in the case of the stave churches that we need to build up an environment of competence. We have added it to NIKU, but because of the lack of demand for that kind of competence, and because NIKU is dependent on being funded in a certain way, we have simply not been able to do what we were supposed to do within NIKU. And then we're challenged to see if there's any other way to organize this, if this responsibility can be added to other environments. It's not criticism of NICU, let me stress it, it's criticism of those who should have given more money so that there was a demand, so it was possible to develop that kind of competence. I also want to challenge the interpellant on the issues of competence, and then I think about the small protective subjects in higher education. We see that many of the old crafts are about to die for us. It's quite serious also for this part of the cultural heritage, for our abilities and our ability to care for this part of the cultural heritage. We've tried some times to travel Document No. Eight proposals on the small subjects of protection. We're going to put further pressure on our government so that we can get a boost for these subjects that are dying for us, and find a way to organize this that makes these subjects survive. Because we're totally dependent on the skills that are in many of these little subjects that are about to die out. So I think we're going to be open when it comes to the responsibility and the relationship between the state and the municipality. It is the responsibility of the municipalities – it is unconditional, there is nothing to discuss, it is clear. But I think we're going to be open to discuss whether the division of labour we have today is good, or whether there's another way to share responsibility. Then I think first and foremost about whether the state should take greater responsibility for the medieval churches, the old churches, so that there is a clearer division of labour, because I think it is actually important to have a clear and clear division of labour. Some say that it is clear, as it is the responsibility of the municipality. But I think it makes sense to take a round and discuss whether the division of labour we have between the municipality and the state makes sense today, because there is always a demand for earmarked funds for the municipalities to take care of them and those church buildings. Then it might make more sense to say that this is a state responsibility – if we can define it, if we can limit it. I think at least that we're going to take a round on it, and be reasonably transparent as to whether there might be a way to do it. This will make us move on with the maintenance and maintenance of that part of the cultural heritage.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-03.ana.ud1333e612	'The church it is an old house, though the towers fall,' it says in an old psalm. Fortunately, it is not that the Church's existence stands and falls with the constitution of church buildings. The Church's existence rests on another and more invisible anchoring. Nevertheless, we do not get past the fact that it has always been important for the Church to have good and decent premises. There is therefore every reason to welcome such an interpellation. The decay of the church is upsetting many, no matter what their daily relationships with the Church. People are happy in their church. It is a house to which many have strong feelings, both in joy and sorrow. This is where they are baptized, have baptized their children, have gone in choirs, services and children's associations, have married and followed their loved ones to the grave. So our churches have a very special position among people in the individual community. In addition, our churches also have a value that goes far beyond being a house of God. Most of them represent important cultural values for the community and have dear traditions to refer to. In other words, the majority of our 1,600 churches are important cultural memories. Some of them are actually among the most important. The same can be said about church art and the interior of the churches, which represent great art and cultural treasures. The churches and church art are therefore a central source of understanding of Norwegian cultural history, Norwegian craft traditions, building practices and style history. It has been said that the refurbishment and upgrade needs have been calculated to a minimum of NOK 8 billion – include it. The problems with church buildings have been building up for a long time. The main reason is simply that there has not been an area that has been locally prioritised well enough. We will therefore not pass by again to stress that the maintenance of churches is primarily the municipality's own responsibility. That's the way it is. The church economy is closely linked to the municipal economy. A tight church economy with a lack of funding for the maintenance of the churches is often associated with a tight community economy. The economic environment of municipalities is therefore an important aspect of the administration and maintenance of church buildings, as is the case for other municipal buildings and properties where maintenance is inadequate. It has been mentioned that several key actions have been undertaken by the State to contribute – in addition to municipal responsibility – to more efficient building management through increased knowledge and better evidence. In the long term, this will also allow significant savings in the operating costs of church buildings and focus heavily on maintenance. Examples include the church building database, a common insurance scheme for churches and a central energy saving project. It is important that measures against church buildings are continued and further developed. Although, as I have said, primary responsibility for church buildings lies with the municipalities, there is a need for a power cap on the part of the state to rectify the situation beyond this. I think everyone will recognize that today. The interest-rate compensation scheme for church buildings has already been mentioned as an important incentive for increased maintenance of church buildings. The Christian People's Party believes that this too should be extended. The representative Reikvam made a number that there is nothing in the big news of the church economy about bets on church buildings. Now it's not quite right – it's actually a part of it. I'm the first to admit that it might have been done even more, but the message is written a year ago, and it's important that we now see where we stand, and try to fix this. It was the Bondevik II government that provided the cultural memory message, which called for increased state co-responsibility in the maintenance and refurbishment of church buildings in Norway, as well as a desire to strengthen the interest-rate compensation scheme. I also believe it is important to stress that the Government should now look into the State Cultural Memory Fund, which is, of course, to be used to maintain equal cultural memories in this country. I think the Cultural Memory Fund has received too little attention. Firstly, it is important that we now also look at the possibilities of strengthening this fund and, secondly, ensuring that the legislation allows an opportunity to also provide money to church buildings. I want to underline it. I see the time is running out. – I think it is important that we now increase the pressure on this matter – we are at least interested in that from the Christian People’s Party – without that leading to us raging the Information Society’s fund in a situation where we have a discussion about state and church. I think it'll be very unfortunate for the further process around the state-church question if we're now going to take this in a false way, starting from a completely wrong angle in that debate. Let's not do that. Let's try to find decent means to renovate the churches in another way.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-03.ana.ud1333e632	It's a pleasure to see how we gather across party boundaries as we discuss churches. We're clearly quite in agreement, and we have a small competition to be the best. I am pleased that the representative is promoting this interpellation, and I have also noticed her pre-announcement in our country. For us in the Center Party, this has been an important topic over many years. We have asked many questions to the former Council of State about taking responsibility for the situation of the churches today, so we share the impatience of the representative Holten in relation to the churches. But I do not share the analysis of the political description presented here, especially in our country today. Paragraph 1 concerns the adopted interest compensation scheme. After all, it was not the Bondevik Government that promoted this case on its own initiative. The centre party put pressure on everything we could, and it was the Progress Party that, in a budgetary settlement with the government, was able to get it in place. There was a pressure in the Stortinget that made sure that we were able to put in place a good interest-rate compensation scheme. However, as the representative of the Progress Party correctly pointed out, we have never thought that this scheme alone is sufficient. We have to move on to tackle the aftermath that we see now. Furthermore, the representative Holten today writes in our country that the interest compensation scheme should include new buildings, and that it is the fault of the government of Stoltenberg. This is a positive error. It is in the staging proposition of the government of Bondevik that it has been designed to contain new buildings. What is in our country today is not correct. We want us to follow up on that system and to target it towards older church buildings, medieval churches and other churches that have maintenance needs in the future. That's what was the intention behind the arrangement, and we want to target it there. I also ask questions in the statement that the Minister for the Environment should have abdicated in the matter. On the contrary, this government has promoted cultural memory policy, and offensive policies must be ensured in relation to churches that are worthy of protection. It was the last government, the government of Bondevik, that presented the budget of the year, and we had three weeks to revise it. We'll continue what was there from the Hareide Council. I also want to comment on one more element in the post, and it's about the local economy and the criticism that came to Haga's council, that she had nothing to do with it. I don't think it's possible to see a single government council that's done so much in such a short time, with a municipal vow that will have a big impact on the church and church maintenance, where we don't see a cut, but rather an increase in the appropriations for the local churches. That is why I do not understand very much the content of what the representative Holten has come with in our country and now in his post. We want an offensive attitude and offensive policy in relation to the churches. We have shown that by getting a clear boost to the municipalities, which we know are responsible for the churches, and which we know will help improve the Church's economy. The Council of State says that he will present a strategy for the maintenance of church buildings, of medieval churches, where knowledge building will also be involved. We have also shown that we believe that it is not short-term to use the Information Service Fund's surplus for maintenance. We believe, on the other hand, that it is long-term to be able to invest in a common cultural heritage, which is important to you and me and to many others.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-03.ana.ud1333e651	It is with some wonder that I find that one tries to distribute fines to one another, about who has been least poor, when the Norwegian society has a painful common heritage, regardless of the name of the government and the name of the Council of State, namely that our building heritage is in embarrassing decline. There we are not able to distribute honors to anyone. If someone tries to find the poor consolation that you can find a polemic corner to tell you that someone was actually a little bit worse or a little bit better than me, we can't get anywhere. This country was so poor that it never could afford to stay in particular with castles and citizens. The castle we see at the end of the street here was even so bad that it was rotten when it was finished. The bill was given to all of us approx. 120 years later. Now, if we look at our building heritage, everyone knows about the stave churches, 27–28 in the number, and then it's about. 1,000 stone churches. It's our building heritage, the poor Norway's building heritage. That's what we could afford. We can't sit and tell each other that it's going to be traditional local economy dealing with it. It won't be able to do that unless you have the situations where these buildings have been claimed and used. Then we are back to the sentence of the Church, Education and Research Committee that a state power must be taken. Then we are in the interesting situation that the Church Minister, who, of course, represents the Government, sits with only some of the instruments. Perhaps the most important instrument, in my opinion and in the view of the Left, is the Cultural Memory Fund, which is part of a completely different trade committee than the most involved in the debate today, and which is therefore under the Constitutional Area of the Minister for the Environment, because it concerns our cultural memories. We were once in this room -- we had a little different roles -- able to gather about creating a research fund, because it was found that virtually no one was going to take the wave on behalf of the research. Not so many people take the wave on behalf of cultural memories either. It's the enthusiasm that carries this. That commitment must be so wide that we stop distributing fins to each other. In a neighbouring country called Sweden – as a reflection back to the Council of State Gishe, through the President – with a social-democratic government in an uprising between the state and the church, an unusually generous funding system was created for historical cultural memories. It was understood that this had to be done, and that in a country that is completely different from Norway. There they actually could afford some castles and citizens. Some of the castles – which I happen to have fallen into on my journey through life – are quite rigid in relation to some of the cots we've had. Even Akershus in his most lustrous beauty labors in relation to part of the Swedish nobility's survival, which was then decided to take care of. In our country, church buildings have become this cultural heritage. A powerful tool is to look with fresh eyes at the Cultural Memory Fund, and for that matter look at the size of the fund, to see how to raise a systematic race to do something about the historical heritage. I felt that the Council of State was also involved, when he drew a time gap in which it might squeeze as bad as possible. I feel that it's the kind of approach that's important. To discuss with each other that these historical cultural memories are going to depend on local economy, I think I'm throwing blues at each other. The local authorities have so urgent tasks that we cannot still refer to the means that go there and expect them to balance every need. If it is a national responsibility and if it is a state responsibility, historical cultural memories must be part of such a responsibility. Then we have to people across party boundaries so much that we are able to raise it. I would strongly urge the Council of State, which is going to work on a strategy, to look, together with its government colleagues, at the very cultural memory fund, both its scope and its use. I think that's exactly what can create predictability. Then, of course, he has to talk to his colleague, the Minister of Knowledge, about the subjects we're going to have to have craftsmanship to take care of what's historic. These are important contributions. But the large sums of neglected maintenance over several long decades are so divided between Norwegian governments that there is only a painful legacy that is left behind. The common peg we can get out of if we have a cross-political will to do that. But we don't get any better out of it if we distribute some lines to each other about who's been at least bad in the last two or three years. The pain has been lying there for too long, and then we should gather together to lift this up. So my call is: let's look together at the Cultural Memory Fund – the size and use.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-03.ana.ud1333e670	There is an important debate between the interpellant Line Henriette Holten Hemdal has put up today. She is quite right that now a power roof has to be taken for the maintenance and upgrading of the churches in this country, and that this work has been neglected for a long time. Church buildings represent important values in society and in our lives. They give room for faith and perhaps doubt. They provide too many good frameworks for marking the great milestones of life. They are are arenas for good cultural experiences, and they represent important architectural and cultural values. We don't have heavy traditions to borrow from when it comes to cultural buildings here to land. Looking down in Europe, protective and often magnificent constructions appear on almost every corner. It's not like that with us. We are a young cultural nation in a larger context. If you think there's a long way between protective buildings on these edges of the country, there's probably reason to point out that there's even more scattered north where I come from. Not only was Finnmark and Nord-Troms burned at the end of World War II, but it has also been that the great fortunes that could have contributed to architecturally expensive construction have been lacking in my part of the country – except for the nostrils that so absolutely helped to shape the houses in the fishing complexes with distinctive character and style along a long and weather-hard coast. But churches we have had – not so many large and magnificent, but some small and finely shaped pearls, which help to make them stakes in our common cultural heritage. I can mention the old stone church of Alstahaug, where Petter Dass ruled in his time, and the Lofot Cathedral of the Vågan, which is one of the largest churches in North Norway, and which through generations has been the site of the gathering of fishermen who came to the Lofoten in the canyon. But allow me to focus especially on two churches north, the Tromsdalen Church, or the Ice Sea Cathedral, as it is called, and the Middle Ages Church of Trodden at Harstad. They are not only regionally important buildings, but also central to a national perspective. The two churches represent a tension in time and style, making them special among church buildings in the country. Both need, of course, in line with many other churches, prompt attention in terms of upgrading. The ice-sea cathedral is designed by architect Jan Inge Hovig and was dedicated in 1965. The church is shaped almost like an iceberg and has a magnificent glass painting by artist Victor Sparre along the entire wall to the east. The building lies fabulously to and goes into a larger whole of the landscape with the city, bridge over the sun and the mountains around. The ice - sea cataclysm has many visitors both of the city’s population and of its visitors. Those who enter the building quickly understand that the cathedral needs refurbishment. It's actually possible to see the cracks in the walls. It's important that we do something about this. In fact, we're talking about one of the nation's most distinctive church buildings in recent times. For hundreds of years, the Church of the Thrones at Harstad was a church - political headquarters in the north. The church was built in the 1200-1300s and is a unique gathering place even today, located in a landscape heavy with significant history. The decoration of the Church is unique in its national context with its three altars from the early 1400s, and among others. with an altar well, a cover for the altar front, of which there is only one in the whole country, namely the one we have in the Church of the Thrones. The discovery of a wooden lattice in the church has led scientists to believe that we may be dealing here with the remains of a Northern Norse stave church that may have been at Trodenes before the stone church was set up. In that case, it's the only wand church we know in the north. It is therefore important that this church be preserved with its valuable art treasures – and it is urgent! The significant impact of this government's last harvest on municipalities is an important basis for the ability of the same municipalities to take care of church buildings and church art, but additional funding is needed. I am therefore pleased that the government fraction's comments in the setting of St.meld. No 41 for 2004-2005 recommends that some of the earnings of the Information Society Fund can be used to refurbish church buildings. It is, in my opinion, a correct and important point of view, to which the Council of State, too, is open, and to which he has said today that he will come back. An opening for such a use of parts of the proceeds of the considerable amount of the Fund of the Information Society will provide the churches and church art, and thus an important part of our cultural heritage, a hard-pressed, absolutely necessary lift.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-03.ana.ud1333e687	The representative Reikvam said that this interpellation debate could remind us of a race of obligations. You can understand that in a couple of ways, but I'm choosing to do it in the best possible sense. In the part of the skating sport from which the image ‘obligatory’ is taken, it is of the same importance as the optional one. In fact, in this particular case, there is a common national obligation, so it does not hurt if the Storting even goes between them. I don't have any great enthusiasm for numbers in general, but when they're first applied, they should be correct. It has been said that the new government has undertaken to provide 10,000 new hands in the health and care sector, but they have actually undertaken to provide 20,000 hands, for most care workers still have two hands, probably. There's been a lot of talk, as it's done regularly from this pulpit, about the impressive NOK 5.7 billion in increased direct transfers. The increase that the new government, the three new government parties, came with was DKK 3.8 billion in addition to the DKK 1.9 billion that had already been proposed. It must be allowed to bear in mind – as one is so concerned about the local economy – that for the economy of Norwegian municipalities there are many other factors that mean much more than direct transfers from Stortinget. When, by the end of 2005, Norwegian municipalities had a stronger economy than ever in history — it shows the figures — it is not due to the 3.8 billion kroner. That's because you had an amazingly much higher tax intake last year than ever, 15 pst. more than one year earlier. It's also because we've had a very low interest rate. The municipalities are known by the largest borrowers in this country. These factors mean much more than the amount of direct transfers per year that the Storting is about to be converted into direct transfers. So the material content of the interpellation. It struck me when in 1983 I visited the then GDR, when it was still in its glory, on occasion of the 500th anniversary of Martin Luther's birth, that the atheist state of the GDR took better care of its church buildings than the programmed Christian Norway according to Section 2 of the Constitution of 1814, has ever done. It's a cross of thought. I think it's useful, as more people in this room have been involved, to distinguish between two categories of church buildings. One is the relatively new church houses, which primarily have uses, and are perceived as objects of use. There the Swedes seized it when they introduced the new relations between the State and the Church, saying that they were responsible for them in principle for those who want to use the Church's services, and not the rest of the citizens. That's a reasonable reasoning. In contrast, when it comes to the old churches, they are part of the common cultural heritage of society and are equally responsible for those who never put their legs in a church house, as for those who use the church houses. The reason for this is that Sweden — and even more so Norway — practically does not own any construction from that part of its history than church buildings. We have only a few exceptions, none of them, to secular construction from the Middle Ages. Then it's obvious that there's a common cultural policy responsibility, completely independent of the legal relationship between state and church, and completely independent of the individual's desire to use the Church's services. It's a clear shared responsibility to take care of our own cultural heritage. I fully agree with the speakers who have suggested that this should be on the table of the newly created Cultural Memory Fund. Once we have a cross-political agreement that we should have such a fund, the tools have been set up. Then it should be a cross-political task to build up that fund to a magnitude that would enable it to solve this task. I can't believe that there should be insurmountable problems, whether for a government to propose or for the Stortinget to join such a building up of the Cultural Memory Fund.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-03.ana.ud1333e704	I am pleased that we now agree in the debate that it is important to address the Competence Plan. But I must also stress that although we are positive about it, there must be a conscious policy in this field. A lack of competence does not come about by itself, even if the money comes. I am also pleased with the representative who said about NIKU that he lacks the demand for skills, and not in what way NIKU is organised, but that it is the demand that is missing. The challenge may well be to look in the future at whether we should make a low-threshold offer in relation to information and skills for those who need it. These are the thoughts that NIKU has and that I think are important to listen to in the future as well. In the case of small subjects, which the representative, Mr Reikham, was also in the Chamber and presented me with a challenge, I also look forward to joint work there, because it is clear that we need to have these small subjects, either here in the country or in the Nordic region, if we are to be able to take care of the large cultural tax we have. The councils were concerned about the churches before 1650. That's a good concern. The Council of States must be commended for that. But I hope and believe that we need a Council of States that not only shows the power of action in connection with this concern, but also shows the power of action towards some of the newer churches. I am actually addressing this interpellation to the Minister for the Environment, because the Minister for the Environment has the overall responsibility for cultural memories, both in relation to the Riksantikvaren and the Cultural Memory Fund. But the government chose to transfer this interpellation to the Minister of Church and Culture. I have to deal with that. But my hope was a slightly different turn of this debate. We would not have been in a ring, as Reikvam underlined in his article. I also underlined in my post that the municipalities are responsible. But when we face a challenge in relation to the aftermath, I'm at least glad that there are representatives from the government parties who are willing to discuss this particular situation in the future as well. Since the representative Holten no longer has a seat in Stortinget, I expect the representative to address the representative Holten to Hemdal. I'm completely flattened about my wording in our country in terms of new buildings. I'm sorry. There I am misworded. I have no problem admitting that, including from this pulpit.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-03.ana.ud1333e726	Through this interpellation debate, the size has once again expressed its concern about the maturity of some church buildings, and also has a strong commitment to doing something about it. It's positive. The fact that the Storting has such a cross-political commitment is a force for us who have the state responsibility in this area, and certainly also for all the church owners that exist around the Commune-Norway. I must say, however, that I do not really believe that the problem in this area is primarily a lack of arrangements. We can discuss whether to use the Cultural Memory Fund, whether to use the Information Society's fund, whether to use earmarked government interest compensation schemes, or whether to use the free income of the municipality. The problem is not to find any new arrangements or to allocate responsibility between one or the other Council of State. The problem is that there's not enough money to clean up the churches, that's the main problem. So there were four years to strengthen the local economy or possibly introduce earmarked state schemes, and the only one who came was one who made a budget settlement one night in Stortinget. I want to tell Dørum that we have to stop throwing fines at each other, but it's actually about politics if you choose to give 30 billion dollars in tax bills, if you choose to spend the money on cleaning up churches, or if you spend the money on hiring one-armed or two-armed nurses in the health sector. So there are policy choices, and we have chosen to spend a lot more money on the single economy, among other things. shall be used for upgrading church buildings. But the interpellant and others have drawn attention to an important point, namely that this is not just a church policy issue. It's not just a church question how the churches are taken care of, for the oldest churches it's also a cultural issue. They are an essential part of our cultural heritage, and the big community must therefore take a considerable responsibility for its care. The representative Lånke was also involved in this with church art, which is a large part of the cultural heritage that the Church has to manage. Buildings and climate – all such things are also essential for the preservation of church art. We're going to contribute ours. We have already contributed a great boost to the local economy. We're going to keep going that way. We're going to look at how the arrangements we already have can be better structured in the oldest churches, and in cooperation with the church builders, make sure that this heritage is preserved in the best possible way.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-03.ana.ud1333e741	The debate on substance is closed. 2 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-03.ana.ud1333e747	Then Stortinget will go to voting in case no. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-03.ana.ud1333e766	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-03.ana.ud1333e891	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word under Section 37(a) of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
