ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-16.ana.ud1605e90	The representative Eirin Fallet, who has been licensed, has again taken the seat. An application for sick leave has been submitted by Mr Karin S. Woldseth on 16 March and until further notice. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The application shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The Vara representative, Georg Indrevik, is invited to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-16.ana.ud1605e113	Georg Indrevik is here and wants to take a seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-16.ana.ud1605e119	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Kenneth Svendsen. – Other proposals are not available, and Kenneth Svendsen is unanimously elected president of Stortinget’s meeting today. The representative Mr. Børge Brende will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-16.ana.ud1605e126	On behalf of the representatives of Ivar Kristiansen, Petter Løvik and myself, I would like to make a proposal for an action plan to prevent a supply crisis in the power supply to Trøndelag and Møre and Romsdal.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-16.ana.ud1605e131	The representative Petter Løvik will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-16.ana.ud1605e134	On behalf of the representative of Øyvind Halleraker and myself, I would like to make a proposal to assess the organisation and development and operation of the E136 Ålesund-Upland border as a OPS project without tolls.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-16.ana.ud1605e139	The representative Odd Einar Dørum will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-16.ana.ud1605e143	On behalf of the representative Lars Sponheim and myself, I propose the appointment of a Privacy Commission.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-16.ana.ud1605e148	The representative Anders Anundsen will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-16.ana.ud1605e151	On behalf of the representatives of Arne Sortevik, Robert Eriksson, Harald T. Nesvik, Åge Starheim and myself, I propose that the Government return to the possibility of financing additions at Hope's secondary school in the revised national budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-16.ana.ud1605e156	The representative of Gjermund Hageseter will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-16.ana.ud1605e159	On behalf of the representatives Ulf Leirstein, Kåre Fostervold, Ketil Solvik-Olsen, Tord Lien and myself, I am delighted to propose that excise duties on chocolate and sugar products be removed.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-16.ana.ud1605e164	The representative Tord Lien will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-16.ana.ud1605e167	On behalf of the representatives of Ketil Solvik-Olsen, Torbjørn Andersen, Bård Hoksrud, Anders Anundsen, Jan Arild Ellingsen, Per Roar Bredvold, Jan-Henrik Fredriksen, Ulf Erik Knudsen and myself, I would like to propose extended participation in the attempt at a new management system for motor travel in the field.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-16.ana.ud1605e172	The representative Ib Thomsen will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-16.ana.ud1605e175	On behalf of the representatives of Ketil Solvik-Olsen, Per-Willy Amundsen, Torbjørn Andersen, Tord Lien and myself, I would like to propose local land management in the coastal zone and other areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-16.ana.ud1605e180	Finally, Mr Solvik-Olsen's representative will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-16.ana.ud1605e183	I am delighted to make proposals on behalf of Torbjørn Andersen, Tord Lien and myself on an energy policy action plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-16.ana.ud1605e189	The President noted with satisfaction that the Stortinget was given jobs. The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-16.ana.ud1605e205	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose to give rise to a change in line — within the allocated speaking time — of up to five lines following the intervention of the Council of State. Furthermore, it will be suggested that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-16.ana.ud1605e214	For most of us, language is an important part of the identity. The right we have to use our own target form in the school as well as in the daily life and in contact with the administrative powers is of great value. Being able to use a form of goals similar to everyday life is also a way of strengthening dialectic usage and, therefore, linguistic diversity. The language used in the media, in the school and in the public spaces affects both the writing language and the dialect in the long term. The message we are handling today is a follow-up to the law-enforcement staff that every four years a big message on target use in public services will be provided. Target promise regulates the use of bookkeeping and new Norwegian in the country, and is an important traveler to ensure linguistic smoothness. The government determines that the neo-Norwegian really has more difficult conditions than the book target, even though they are similar target forms, and that the promise thus also serves as a guarantee for the development of neo-Norwegian font culture and this goal form its position in the Norwegian language community. To make the nostrils visible in the public space, quantitative quota requirements are central to the objective. The rule that no target form should have less than 25 pst. is very close to that of any state organ. Rather, developments have been reversed in recent years. One is still around 8 pst. behind the minimum dimension. This makes it necessary to find out that measures to meet these developments are offensive. The establishment of a language consultancy service as part of the Secretariat of the Language Council is an important measure in this way. And it's a pleasure for the government to stress the importance of lateral education in school. The provision of skills in the use of both target forms is an important part of a long-term strategy to achieve the objective of better linguistic equality in the country. In addition, the Government indicates that the State's websites should be one of the areas where one will start work to ensure that the target promise is followed. The Ministry announces that they will come back to the issue of the use of the target law in government-related enterprises that are not an organisational part of the administration. It is also good that the government says clearly that the measurements should have been achieved in a few years. If a target is not reached, a stronger tool should be used. The Committee will follow these developments closely. It is clear from the case that the Progress Party has its own comments and suggestions, which they would do well for themselves. The centre party is particularly pleased that this government has ambitions for language policy, and that one shows a stronger commitment to ensuring linguistic equality in the public than the previous government did in its work. This is a turbulent commitment.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-16.ana.ud1605e233	The Public Service Target Use Act, the Target Act, regulates the use of new Norwegian and bookkeeping targets in the country. The objective of the target law is to protect the right to use the target form which falls naturally, or which is chosen, and to prevent discrimination against a target form. The Progress Party supports the right to choose a target form, but we are opposed to any type of coercion and regulation that is intended to force individuals to use a non-voluntary target form. Everyone must be able to choose his main goal, but also respect the equivalency and justification of the other form of goal. We believe that the objective of using a certain percentage of the ‘weakest’ target form in public service is rigid, restrictive and bureaucratic. It is clear that this imposes an unnecessary and bureaucratic delay on the public, which reduces efficiency. It is said in good Norwegian: it is wasted both time and money. In the light of the need to modernise and improve the efficiency of the public sector, such provisions should be removed. Every Norwegian has the ability to understand both the target forms, and this is the core of language: communication. A living language does not grow through coercion, control and regulation. You've set the two dimensions against each other for too long. This serves no purpose. It seems clear that neo-Norwegian writing culture has brought valuable taxes to the Norwegian cultural heritage, but it has been in the form of individual engagement and not state over-management. There are not numbers and percentages that determine the viability of a language, but the people who use the language voluntarily. The Progress Party wants the Government to put its hands on the proposed intensifications that intend to further govern the choice of target form in government bodies. We do not want action to be taken to increase the scope of a target form by coercion and to seek to increase the scope and scope of the current target law. We want to make it possible for civil servants in state bodies to take advantage of the natural nature of their objectives. Requests for a branch office can be answered in a new Norwegian language if the official’s target form and vice versa. Furthermore, the Progress Party wishes that State-owned companies which have changed their form of operation, preferably to limited liability companies, but also to other undertakings, such as health companies, should be exempt from regulations and regulations which include State bodies in the target law. In the past, we have presented Document No. Eight proposals on this in Stortinget. We also want a revision of the target law, so that it is consistent with realistic linguistic assumptions, and that the actual application of the target forms in the Norwegian population is used as a basis for the purpose and implementation of the law. The rapporteur was concerned about this with the situation of the side measure in school. The Progress Party has made a number of proposals to make cross-target education optional on a number of occasions. We've seen that studies show that 20 pst. by Norwegian young people have difficulty learning the language. That they then have to struggle to learn two languages, becomes a problem for a lot of people. Instead, you should focus on learning your main goal in a better way. We are also very sceptical about the language consultancy service, as the case-rapporteur said, which we fear will become a language police force. With this, I would like to address the proposals made by the Progress Party in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-16.ana.ud1605e261	The representative Ulf Erik Knudsen has taken up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-16.ana.ud1605e264	What we are discussing today is a small corner, but an important corner, of what a comprehensive language policy must be about: how we are going to preserve that wealth and the treasure it is that we have two languages in our country. Other parts of the language policy are cultural policy, what we have under arrangements in the Ministry of Culture budgets, education, school policy, and press. At all, there are several elements in this. However, today it is about the use of different types of public sector targets. What we're seeing is that the nynos scandal is on the waving front. In several studies that have been published in the last few days, perhaps not in exactly the same numbers, the trend is at least quite clear, and in relation to the overall language policy, there is a signal that we are going to take with us and take seriously. That being said, it is probably also important to have a language policy that appeals to people, who have an openness in terms of language development that makes language policy perceived as natural. Language is an important part of our identity. Forced, for narrow guidelines, seems provocative and, I think, has been to the disadvantage and to little benefit of the Norwegian language debate, which is known to be a debate in which there is often an unnecessarily high temperature. We have found reason in the comments to ask the Government to take a closer look at the target law. In the right, it is problematic that the requirement to master both types of target seems to exclude some groups, perhaps in particular foreign cultures, which already have a weak linguistic base. It is important that the target law does not exclude both this group and other groups from having a position in the public sector. Perhaps especially with regard to immigrants, the public sector as a workplace is a very important signal for bringing foreign culture into our working life. We also probably see that, in relation to traditional Norwegian language, it's not without complications that you demand to master both of the goals, and in reality I think that if you go into the nucleus here, you'll see that it probably isn't the case in many places either. So we ask in the notes – and we repeat this here – the government to review the target law, to look at these issues and to see if it will not be high time to soften some of the requirements that lie there. And it quickly boils down to what is the core requirement, namely that you have to have a claim for answers in the form you have sent yourself. By liberalising such a provision, you will also be able to open up the possibility of not excluding any groups, or of not being exclusive in relation to skills that you actually need. For this reason, it has also been the case that perhaps sparsely populated areas of interest, in fact, have more difficulty attracting skilled labour in some areas. Indeed, in the various areas of the economy, it is possible to ensure that there are requirements for larger public entities that there should be new Norwegian competence in the unit as such, but that it should not necessarily be on the individual or that everyone should be required to have this competence. We notice that the case rapporteur was pleased that this government had ambitions – he meant different from the previous government. I would like to remind you that it is largely the previous government's proposal that has been continued. There are not so many intrusions or changes in relation to the proposals made by the Council of State in response to Haugland. But you want to move on to this, and I'm happy to follow the line of the former government in terms of language policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-16.ana.ud1605e277	The announcement of target use in public services, which we are now discussing, gives us the opportunity to also have a little language debate. Language is the most important instrument for communication between people. We have two Norwegian script cultures, nine Norse and book goals. Our language is under constant pressure, Norway is a small language area, and as the least used of the two forms of destination, it's a very new language. The Christian People's Party believes it's important to use neuron in public administration, and it's important to counterbalance those parts of society where the new Norway is initially marginalized. The quota requirements in the target law are central, for central government agencies, in the case of general information gathering, the exchange between new Norwegian and book measures, so that none of the target forms come out over time by less than 25 pst. I think this is important. Since we also have a general assessment in relation to the language, I cannot accept it when the Progress Party in its comments and suggestions do not want to have any coercion, no leadership. As the representative Ulf Erik Knudsen said in his statement: ‘It is not numbers and percentages that determine the viability of a language, but the people who use the language voluntarily.’ I actually thought it was important to look back. Because in those parts of the country where many people are using neonormous, children have novelties in school, but much of the information they receive is in bookkeeping. When they buy Donald Duck or other comic books, they're always at bookstores. When they get children's books, a lot of them are in books. It does something about self-confidence and identity in relation to the use of neo-Norwegian. They learn new ways of learning in school, but a lot of the information from TV and the media is in bookkeeping. What happens then is that as the children grow up, many people change from newcomers to book goals, because many of the incentives they get from the community are book goals. That's why it's very good that we have a neo-Norwegian children's book club that gives literature to children and young people in neo-Norwegian. It is also important that we give a signal that we want to have a linguistic deficiency and to facilitate the development of new psychiatry, and then it is tragic that one in some central media does not even get permission to write in new Norse. That's why there's every reason to raise the debate about the extent to which newnorms and book goals are equal in society, because in many areas you'll find that you may not be allowed to use newnorms or that newnorms are under pressure. When it comes to education and the fact that a side goal is to be voluntary in continuing school, I think it's a very wrong step to take, because I think it's important that the most possible learn new Norwegian, also for use later in life when a person wants to have consultants and consultants who write new Norwegian – also here at Stortinget. If a nynosic or book goals were to become voluntary in the secondary school, I also believe that this would lead to a weakening of the nynosclerosis. Rather, we need to look at what we can do to strengthen the target form, and to facilitate it, rather than to switch to volunteering, and that one becomes a little bit indifferent to how development is going to be. At least I think we're going to get a far worse condition for the new one. I am pleased that one is continuing an offensive language policy, and we fully support the measures proposed in this big message from the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-16.ana.ud1605e297	It was really the case-rapporteur's conclusion that made me feel a little obliged to say something. Political commitment does not necessarily have any bearing on political power. This does not mean that the one who has the thickest armor is the one who is bravest in war. But the engagement might be measured in that this is the only message the Council of State has promoted, so that probably means he has an engagement right in this case. Or maybe that's all he found in the drawer because that's where he started looking. The public must go ahead with the fact that we are actually a bilingual country. And if you don't understand the power of having two different writing languages in a country, it just means that we've been incredibly lucky in this country that's managed to have two writing languages without getting more conflict around it than we've got. If we look around the world, we see that democratic law and the identity of the scriptural culture actually have other consequences. I want to spend most of my time on the side measure in school and the subject's need for development. It is also part of public policy, as many have mentioned here. I am very pleased that the Council of State has said that he will make a statement on the development of our language. I think that's going to be incredibly important, and it's also going to be an important debate to have here. Because I feel that people both need and have the linguistic awareness, and for us who watch language programs on TV, and see what success it has been, there is also a certain hope that the language debate can live on. I've been thinking about this for the past week, because then my old Norwegian teacher died, and he was of the good, old battle that got sentence analysis to work as a crimp novel. I've always thought sentence analysis was really nice precisely because of the training we received in it. I actually remember the first hour when we were going to have side measures, for the whole hour he spent explaining to us the similarity between dialects, the similarity between the two writing languages and the identity that lies in the two different writing languages. I think that the good Norwegian teachers, those who are good at conveying the very fire that lies in the language field, actually defend against the disgust of the second writing language, whichever one of them it is, and are able to build bridges and build new knowledge. There's something that I think is strange about the Right, maybe some of what I think is strange about the Right, because the Right is otherwise loaded and broken with the Left in terms of skills requirements and the belief in stretching towards more competence, the belief in stretching towards more knowledge, and that having less knowledge is not something that's going to strengthen a society: this is probably the only point where the Right is a little out of touch, since they believe that less competence and less demands actually lead to a better result for society. I think that we're really going to be able to hold on to our bilingualism, everything we do in relation to the public sector is important, but the most important thing is to find out about the fiery, good Norwegian teachers, such as mine, who are able to communicate the tension associated with the subject, who are able to communicate the commitment to the subject, and who are also able to build up the prejudices associated with the subject. Then the subject needs to develop, and then we have to make sure that we have good teachers who are able to build up the prejudices associated with the other writing language, no matter what the starting point. Then I very much agree with May-Helen Molvær Grimstad in the importance of the children's book to be able to relate to the two writing languages, and so I am quite optimistic, as many good new Norwegian children's book writers as we actually have in the country today.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-16.ana.ud1605e314	The red-green government has announced an offensive language policy. We have announced that we will start working on a big message that takes into account the overall language situation in the country. The main perspective will be how to ensure the position of the Norwegian language as a complete and societal language in Norway. This also includes the position and situation of the new Norway. All the small languages in the world are under pressure. Through TV and movies, the Internet, business, cultural life and mass media, we see how English takes up more and more space at the expense of the small languages. As in Norway. An active policy to preserve traditions and cultural expressions around the world is important, not to shut the rest of the world out, but to preserve its own identity and culture in the face of a living global age. In this policy we must also have clear language policy objectives. This is where the attention is focused on newnorms and newcomers. Because in the same way that the Norwegians are exposed in a world with more and more English, the new Norwegians are also exposed in a situation where the book target has a clear takeover. The requirement for at least 25 pst. of each form of information provision from central government agencies is a basic instrument of Norwegian language policy. I am pleased that the vote shows that this has a solid majority in Stortinget. Unfortunately, we're still a good way to reach that goal. The message shows that of it was 17.3 pst. in neo-Norwegian, i.e. almost 8 percentage points lower than the minimum requirement. However, this is an increase from the period before, but it goes too slowly. We need an enhanced effort. All governmental bodies shall comply with the rules of the Public Service Target Use Act. In the communication, we have underlined that the rules on target use are part of the basic rules of procedure which are based on each State body, and we have expressed a clear expectation that all State leaders will give clear internal notice that the rules on target use will be followed hereafter to the point and the point. This will now be followed up by the Ministry in a circular to all central government agencies, where we will inform more about the content of the notification. We are also committed to building up the State Language Consultant service, which was proposed four years ago, but which the Bondevik government did not follow up. This may be the most important measure in the short term, and it is a positive instrument. This means that, under the auspices of the Language Council, help and support will be provided, so that we can also contribute to better quality in the public language, whether it be book-keeping or new Norwegian. A better public language in general will also be an important component of the overall language policy to which we will come back in the new communication we are now embarking on. There is a broad political majority behind the main features of the communication. Nevertheless, there are some alternative suggestions. The party of progress writes in its comments: ‘These members believe that the two objectives have been set against each other for too long – this serves no purpose.’ I agree with that, and I want to add: we need to cultivate and take care of both of our goals. Bokmål and Nynorsk are inalienable components of Norwegian language and culture. The Party of Advancement further says: ‘It seems clear that neo-Norwegian writing culture has added valuable taxes to the Norwegian cultural heritage.’ Once again, I agree with the heart. Where we separate layers, in terms of the willingness to use public instruments to achieve these objectives and to support and stimulate neo-normous in order to ensure a good growth environment for the future. Of course, the commitment of individuals is important, but we also need to have a common policy, common goals and common measures to ensure that we actually do what we have as ambition. How free there is, for example, school life with a nine Norse background when he's going out into a world dominated by bookkeeping? How free are you when you just meet books on every side? How free are you if all public agencies only use book goals? It has been said here in the debate and also mentioned in one of the proposals that the rules should be softened in order to respond to both objectives. But samples in the public administration show that it's just 3 pst. by the staff of the central administration who have as their primary objective newnormous. If we leave the free choice to answer, we will thus have one, so to speak, non-neurous central administration, and the newnorth will be further marginalised. In this way, I would like to point out to the previous government, where the Right was sitting, that the consideration of minorities cannot be used as a pretext to weaken the neo-Norwegian measures. Here I and the previous government are completely in line.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-16.ana.ud1605e350	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-16.ana.ud1605e353	I record that the Government wants to continue its policy with coercion, rigid rules, etc. It is the policy that has been in place for a number of years, and it has brought about a reduction in the use of neuron, as the representative Olemic Thommess pointed out in his speech. You can ask yourself if it is not time to consider whether to continue dipping your head into the same wall repeatedly. Perhaps one should think again, and perhaps one should see that the policies that have been pursued have helped to give the new one a negative sound in those who have book goals as their main goal. So my question to the Council of State is, what does he see as innovation in what is presented today?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-16.ana.ud1605e361	I want to say that the most important signal that we're getting in the message is the offensive bet we want on the consulting service. I don't think that's a coercive measure. It is a positive incentive that will not only improve the emergence of new Norwegian, but also, perhaps, improve the use of language by the public administration in general, develop the language used by the public administration. I am a little surprised by the view of the Progress Party in Nynorsk, because in many other contexts the Progress Party is the ones who strongly claim that it is necessary to call about the Norwegian and protect us from foreign impulses and what is overstepping the Norwegian. Well, Nynorsk is therefore a central part of Norwegian, and I believe that we should both take care of multicultural diversity, have support schemes and systems that ensure that we are open to new impulses and not become separatist and isolationist, and at the same time have an offensive attitude to take care of Norwegian, even when it's in Nynorsk.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-16.ana.ud1605e368	It is true, as the Council of State says, that the issue of minorities was also mentioned in the previous roll, but that is four years ago, and time is running out. We have seen different examples of, I think, quite unfortunate consequences of the requirements of the target law today. One thing is the central administration of Oslo. Another is a very large public sector in the rest of the country and consideration of minority participation. I mean, first of all, the people of foreign culture. But I also believe that the problem we see in very many small municipalities, which are concerned with recruiting jobs in special areas of competence, is also very important. It's an important challenge for District Norway. I would then like to ask the Council of State: will the Council of State look at this, or has what he has said been to understand so that he will not touch the goal law in the work to be done now?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-16.ana.ud1605e375	It is the line of this government that we meet all the proposals of the opposition with humility and sensitivity. This proposal, too, will be included when we are going to write a big message about language. It is an important objective that people with a minority background, people who may have come to Norway in adulthood and who do not have the same assumptions and the same starting point for language control as those who were born and raised here, can also be accommodated in public positions. It's a problem we want to take with us. But at the same time, I would like to remind you of something contained in the cultural message presented by the Thommes own government in 2003. It says: 'But tolerance for new cultural impulses must not be an excuse to deny our traditional cultural diversity. It would be an ironic paradox if the need to facilitate our new countrymen were to become an argument for a reduction in the use of neuronal targets in different public contexts. That's also my starting point.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-16.ana.ud1605e387	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-16.ana.ud1605e392	The representative, Trine Skei Grande, found that we have two written languages in this country. That's in and out of control. One of them is called Sami. We don't have two Norwegian writing languages in this country. It's a regular misunderstanding. For historical reasons, we have two branches of one Norwegian writing language. For this reason, it is unreasonable to compare countries that are categorized as such. Belgium, where one half of the population communicates in Flemish and the other in French. There's the problem that the two don't understand each other without learning each other's language. The situation in Norway today is that not one person has a problem understanding what they are reading, whether it is written in one language or another. We have target laws that were designed in their principles at the end of the 1800s, not just in the last millennium, but more than a hundred years back in the last millennium. At my discretion, it is high time that we were willing to ask the basic questions of principle: Does this target law work today according to purpose? Could it be that the quantitative percentage approach is at the expense of the qualitative aspects of Norwegian language, and that is the real challenge? In our country today, the bishop of Agder – bishops must be regarded as relatively credible persons – that there have been two very well-qualified applicants who have a foreign background because they do not meet the requirement of, in this case, writing only new Norwegian, because the mathematics of the goal law leads to that in a diocese where there is 6.8 pst. by the population with the main objective of neo-Norwegianism, the diocese is ordered, because of the number of municipalities, of all things, to communicate exclusively with people in the new Norse. I think the bishop's expression is quite striking: 'lawfulness', in more than one sense of the word. You have to assume that bishops are there to serve people and not to serve municipalities. When a target law can have as absurd consequences as in this case, I think that everyone, not least given the version of Norwegian as quantitatively speaking, is the one that uses the least, is well worth asking whether we should not today choose a different approach. Then my opinion is that the time has come to establish a completely different principle, namely that all Norwegian citizens should have the freedom to choose the language they master best. Negative: no employer in this country should have the right to require their employees to write a different version of Norwegian than the one they prefer. It would also solve the problem that the neo-Nurse people have now been reacting to for a long time, namely that the most important media in this country, those edited in Akersgata, largely oblige all their employees to use book targets alone. If you think it's important cultural policy, the target people must also be willing to approach the matter in principle, and the fundamental question is whether you have the right to oblige people to write a different version of Norwegian than the one they master.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-16.ana.ud1605e403	The representative Knudsen says that the Progress Party will not force a target form to be added to the public. Then I find reason to ask the Progress Party: Who is it public for? Who's going to make the public money? Is it not the inhabitants? Is there any other area where the Progress Party will go in and change the position instructions because they don't like the tasks they have? I have respect for the principle position of the Right on the revision of the target law. Proposal No. 2, presented by the Progress Party, is not a proposal to change the goal promise. It is a proposal not to comply with the laws, and it must be obvious that the Progress Party specifically proposes that the promises should not be followed. Is it the law of the Progress Party that one should comply with the law, but only as long as one of itself is united in it? So for the cross-sectional education. 20 pst. by the Norwegian students, the representative Knudsen says. Yes, it is true that many elephants wear out, but there is no proven connection between the lateral education and that the elephants wear out the Norwegian education. Rather, the opposite is suggested, i.e. that the two target forms provide a better basis for language training. The representative, Olemic Thommen, takes up the challenge of immigrants and cross-target education. It is good for the representative to do so, because it is actually the case that even in the areas of the country where newnorm is the main goal, immigrants learn book goals to a large extent when they receive Norwegian training. I hope that we, both the Right Party and the Government Party, will be able to stand up in the future when we look at that issue and at how we can ensure a good Norwegian training for several of the immigrants who are also adapted to the area in which they live, as well as where they live in the country. Then we've been talking about ambitions. For anyone who has read the setting, it must be clear that the Right does not have the same ambitions as the Government when it comes to goal fixing. Rather, the party has comments and suggestions that indicate that one does not have the same ambitions when it comes to the use of both types of public sector objectives.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-16.ana.ud1605e416	The Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs is currently considering St.meld. No 4 on call and distribution decisions for the period 2004–2005. It may be in their place here and now to mention that the most named caller decision that the Stortinget has made is from 1885 on the equalization of nynorrhea and bookkeeping. It sounds like this: ‘The Government is requested to take the necessary steps to ensure that the Norwegian language is equated with the language of our ordinary Scriptures and Book.’ Since then, there has been a broad consensus in Norwegian policy that languages are to be regarded as formally embellished, and that one should facilitate the smoothing of the situation to be as real as possible. The role of the public sector, of state and municipality, is one of the most significant changes in Norwegian society since 1885. In short, the public has become more important when it comes to both the regulation of the economy and the production of welfare services. Even more relevant in this context is that the country and municipality may be the largest language producer in Norway. The public is simply producing a lot of text and is thus helping to shape the language situation directly in everyday life. For this reason, public service objectives are important and central when it comes to the balancing of nynostic and book goals and, at a more superior level, to the follow-up of the classic call decision of 1885. Most countries are linguistically heterogeneous. Belgium is one example. Iceland is one of the very few exceptions. Language diversity has its own value. This leads to greater linguistic consciousness. It ensures that different traditions, different stories and sometimes different values both interact, compete and conflict with each other. All in all, this leads to debate and information, and that in turn is good for the People's Government. So the goal promise is to secure this lack – a more compound publicity and a stronger democracy. It is gratifying, therefore, that both in the Soria Moria Declaration and through the message of the Law of Goals, the Government attaches such great importance to the work of contributing to the strengthening of this deficiency. Of course, there are other and very important measures that apply to individuals, such as: putting the search light on what's happening in the relationship between primary and secondary schools, how the conditions for equalization are there. The polling is there in the theory of a new drug user, but per. date not in practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-16.ana.ud1605e432	It is with great pleasure that I listen to the Council of State when he talks about the upcoming bigmouth message about Norwegian language. We really look forward to that. Now it's like, almost in any language debate and on any occasion we talk about language, it's all about new or not new Norse, or the living conditions of the newnorse in one way or another. The council has humbly signaled that he will listen to advice from the opposition – something I almost touched said – and I am pleased that he also uses the opportunity to make some recordings of the work to be done. We also have a rich national tradition in Norway, which is the bearer of important and very central parts of our literature. The living conditions of the target and the book target should also be looked at, not least in relation to major projects on the dictionary side, such as: The Richtåsbundet stands for, and so far has seen very, very little in public funds or for public support measures. I would also like to say that in connection with the issue of Norwegian/English, it must be important to look at the synergy that lies in the fact that we belong to a Scandinavian language community. It's true, as the representative of Wage says, that what we often describe as two Norwegian languages are two branches of the same thing. But it is also the case that the three Scandinavian languages, in international terms, are considered to be dialects of the same language. Scandinavian languages are spoken by over 20 million – I think about. 22 million – people. It must be an important point to take into account the synergies we can have between the Scandinavian countries and how we can provide Scandinavian language and culture. There has to be an approach that we should focus on, not least in media cooperation. I find it a pity that there has never been any of the Nordic channels, that the fact that we have state ‘host broadcasters’, or, in order to use a Norwegian term, general broadcasters, in all the Scandinavian countries, have not given us the opportunity for better cooperation on, for example, the issue of drugs. the application page. As technology makes it possible to strengthen more channels, we should be able to work together on the channel side. We have a big challenge in finding a language policy that brings together. With regard to school policy, which has been discussed on several occasions here, I'm not going to go into a debate about it on this occasion, but I want to say that if we can find a way to get a naturalness both to what you experience as your main language, and to the other language, whether it's bookkeeping or a new one, it really has to be wanted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-16.ana.ud1605e445	It was seamly Inge Wohnning that I had to take the floor, sailing about the representative Thommess now contributed to a slightly broader information of the area. I actually consider the representative for pay to be a very enlightened man, but I don't think that the example of Belgium is the best in relation to this problem. Another example could have been the Balkans, where languages that an outsider could quickly count as different dialects are so closely linked to identity, so closely related to nationality, that it has been involved in triggering wars. Language and writing are identity, and it's about respect for identities. It's basically talking about our democratic traditions. If you don't have this approach to this question, the solution at the other end will always be wrong. I think that when the Council of State is going to make a message, many of the perspectives will be the same as those mentioned by Thommes, but if you don't have that attitude at the bottom that when it comes to language, it's about identities, and that identity isn't something you change by law, you get wrong when you have to make the policy. Then there are questions related to all the Norwegian citizens who have not Norwegian as their first language but as their second language. Here I think there are a lot of tricks, small and smart changes that can be made, which means that this doesn't get stupid results. But this was probably not fully disclosed by the case rapporteur, because in Oslo we have sometimes had a majority of minority speakers in the neonormous class on the Sagen. For example, during periods of time, we had very many Kurds who perceived themselves as a minority in their own country, and who therefore felt their identity most related to the writing language in a new way when they were to choose the writing language for their children. So this is probably much more complex than it might look from the outside. Basically, it's about the identity of the individual human being as a background for politics, and it's about the tolerance and the democracy that we can build on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-16.ana.ud1605e456	The case rapporteur asked two questions to the Advancement Party. First of all, for whom is it public? The answer, of course, is for the people. But even though it exists for the people, we also have to take some account of the employees. I assume that the Center Party agrees with us. What is the background to our vision, and it was also drawn out by the representative for pay, is that there is no problem for the Norwegian people to understand a letter if they get it in a novel or in a bookcase. We certainly believe that even if you don't get the letter in your own way, all the Norwegians would understand it. Then the case rapporteur also asks whether the Progress Party believes that laws should be broken, whether we should not follow up laws. Now that's not what's in proposal No. 2nd@item: inlistbox What it says is that we ask the Government ‘to remain silent because of the proposed intensifications that intend to further govern the choice of target form in governmental bodies’. This is a policy document, which is a big message, and not a law change. We ask that this policy change be suspended. But this must also be seen in connection with proposal No. 5, where we ask for a revision of the target law so that it becomes more consistent with realistic linguistic assumptions, etc. Otherwise, I have to say that the representative of the Wage Post was like music in my ears. Had it not been for that it would have been unparliamentary, I would like to stand on the chair and applaud it. The fact that you don't have two languages, but two branches of the same writing language, of course, is quite correct, and of course it's absolutely right that everyone understands the two forms. The question is then the consequence of the representative's posts. His party should be with the Progress Party in all the comments and suggestions we have made, but I notice that this is not the case. I would also like to say that the problem of these rigid rules, such as: has had a diocese, and has also affected a number of businesses, it could have been corrected in the years in which the representative of the Party of Wages has been in government. In addition, in my line-up with the Council of State, I registered that there is no new policy or any new thoughts, one is going to continue in the same street as now. If you think the new witch can't survive without coercion, it's bad with the new one. We obviously have a much more optimistic view of this than the majority.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-16.ana.ud1605e477	Of course, I have nothing against anyone hearing my post as if it were tone-following; it's everybody's free. I asked for the floor to follow up the dialogue with the representative Trine Skei Grande a little, because at my discretion she gave a very good argument for my view and against her own in the last post she made. Because it is clear that language has to do with identity, and that is where the problem lies with the inherited Norwegian legal solution, the belief that all Norwegian citizens can be told to stick to two identities – because that is the consequence, a main identity and a side identity. It is already in the concept that calls a long way that there is a desktop design that will not ever force the terrain to focus on the map. My main concern is just to raise the level of ambition, because I fear that today we have a flawed equality policy. In this objective, I agree with the equality between the two official Norwegian languages by a hundred percent. But we have instead ended up in the paradoxical situation that legislation has become the purpose of the instrument. And when legislation has meaningless consequences, we still doubt that it is the law that has the right to drive. Then it becomes the goal law, paradoxically, which becomes the overall purpose, while it should be qualitative, to stimulate the good use of both Norwegian language forms. We don't have a situation like the Balkans. Henrik Ibsen and Ivar Aasen did not belong to two different nationalities, and they did not need to fight each other for that reason. There is a wealth in our Norwegian cultural situation that we have the branch of Norwegian writing that we have, but then we have to learn to look forward and not backwards all the time. We have to stick our finger in the ground and find that when, for example, The country's largest university has four times as many foreign students as you have students who check that they prefer the target form of innovation, yes, it has to have some practical consequences for how to take account of these foreigners that you are much invited to learn to master Norwegian in some way, but you can't invite them to learn both variants. And you can't invite our new countrymen to submit to what was currently Norwegian policy at the end of the 1800s, in 2006. It's too little ambitious.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-16.ana.ud1605e486	The option reads in the proposal from the Progress Party: ‘The decision asks the Government to remain silent as a result of the proposed intensifications intended to further govern the choice of target form in State bodies.’ We know today that this is 25 pst. will not be followed up in governmental bodies. I find it hard to see that this can be interpreted in any other way than that the Progress Party encourages the Government not to comply with the laws in this area. So the representative for Wage: one has a rather different perception of what this is about when talking about a head identity and a side identity when it comes to target use in the public sector. It's obvious that when a public-sector case manager presents a website in a new Norwegian, or answers me a letter in a new Norwegian, it's not to maintain a page identity. It's because the language is part of my identity, and I, as a user and a resident of Norway, should therefore be able to get an answer to my own goal form.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-16.ana.ud1605e498	We're back at the nucleus itself. And I think the representative of the payroll brought us back into the circle pretty clearly with his last post. The law does not aim to create different identities in case handlers, but public Norway should respect its citizens. It should not be the state that owns its citizens; it should be the citizens who own their country. Then the state must actually deal with, and respect, the identity that the citizen has. Therefore, the citizen must be answered in the form of the target form that belongs to the identity of that citizen. That's what this is about. It is not about choosing different identities in a type of ‘school shopping’. It's about showing respect for the citizen's identity, because the citizen actually owns the state and not the other way around. The results of the University Perspective of the Representative for Wages and Wages, I think, have to put a big question mark on them. For what is the representative of Wage wanting? Does he want an academic language? Is it true that only we choose one of these types of goals – and it is also followed at universities – will any foreign student find that Norwegian is much easier to learn? Is this really a kind of dream that we should be like any other country, and not be the little, nice country up here? I think we should hold on to the unique Norwegian language. I noticed that telling others about the two different writing languages is actually a very good way to learn a little about Norwegian culture and Norwegian identity. There are a lot of rarities we're doing in this country -- we might stick with curiousnesses. The representative Wage and I probably agree that holding our monarchy makes us a bit of a strange country up here in the north. That might make our country a little bit more exciting and a little bit more interesting to visit. And maybe that doesn't lead to fewer students studying at Norwegian universities, but more people do.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-16.ana.ud1605e509	The President is tempted to quote Ivar Aasen: ‘It is better to be master of a small house than a slave in a large one.’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-16.ana.ud1605e515	One of the themes of this debate has been what is meant, and what is an instrument. The goal is to take care of both of the two dimensions we have. The goal law is permeated by it, the message we have provided is permeated by it – and that is actually what this setting is all about. It's not the goal law itself that's the goal. The tools we need to achieve the goal, I think the representative on the pay side talked a little bit about. We have an instrument that means that 25 pst is to be used in public administration. Nynorsk. We have an instrument that requires citizens – which is also proportionate to their rights – to be answered in the form they themselves use. We have an instrument that means that it's going to be taught in both of the school's objectives. The right has been willing to remove that instrument, through the pilot scheme to eliminate cross-target education, as if learning more side-by-side objectives by removing cross-target education. One has an instrument that requires dioceses to use the target form used by a majority of municipalities. If you take away the tool after the tool, how do you intend to achieve the goal? And when investigations show that 3 pst. as a first choice of target form, how should a strong marginalisation of new Norse as a writing language be avoided by the central government if this is released freely? These are the instruments. So we want to take care of the New Norse writing language. Once on the right was a conservative party, and being conservative means preserving. Here you have crossed right into the arms of the Progress Party. The warning lights should light up when Ulf Erik Knudsen shames the Right Party's policy and – quite relevantly, really – calls for why you do not take the step fully and submit to the proposals and comments made by the Progress Party. That's a shame, because here it's been a fairly broad majority, consisting of all parties except the Progress Party. Now this majority has shrunk something, and it's regrettable. I also believe that this type of glide flight across the Progress Party is a major reason why the Progress Party is about to swallow the Right – it is much better to vote on the original than on the copy.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-16.ana.ud1605e526	No pay has been given the word twice and will be given the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-16.ana.ud1605e529	It is, of course, also for state councils to unfold their wishful thinking from the pulpit of the Storting. But there is no reason for others to comment on it, because it has nothing to do with this case to order at all. The problem that I've tried to point out with some concrete examples is that we have an instrument, we can call that toolbox, which was created at a different time, and which was meant to deal with a completely different language situation than the one we have today – and even more so what we're going to have in five or ten years. My hope is that the Council of State will return to what he said in his first intervention in this debate, that he was interested in listening to those who had different opinions than his own, and that, with regard to the message he is about to make, he was interested in having a forward-looking attitude – not a backward one. It's not the situation today that a majority of the Norwegian people are concerned about getting answers from the public in the same language as the one they're writing in. [[President clubs]] You must – to the representative Trine Skei Grande – stick your finger in the ground and discover that we are living in 2006. [[The President clubs.]] There are disappearing few Norwegians today who are at all interested in this.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-16.ana.ud1605e538	The President must ask that a person respect the speaking time. Olemic Thommessen has spoken the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-16.ana.ud1605e543	State Council Giske, who is so immigrated in terms of Right Luner, should know that being conservative in my circles is about changing to preserve. What's at the heart of this, and the representative also has been involved several times, is that one has doubts about old principles, and that one draws the law after the hair in order to force people to change their goals. That way you don't get a suitable tool, if you can call it that. We want an instrument, but we want an instrument that hits people on the bright side of life, and so does not bring into the language debate an infinite line of confrontation – which we have all along, and which is also below the surface here. In this context, it is also worth noting with penalties: we are very sceptical about imposing stricter sanctions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-16.ana.ud1605e554	Ulf Erik Knudsen has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-16.ana.ud1605e557	There have been many beautiful words, such as respect for the individual and respect for identity – and that we must therefore have the rules we have. For those of us who have seen the public sector a little from within, like, at case handler level, it forces case handlers to write in a form that they initially do not control, two consequences. Firstly, it leads to the use of money for training and correction, but it also leads to the possibility of ending up with a product, in the form of a letter or decision, which is less designed than it would otherwise have been. What should have been important for public case handlers is to learn language well, whether it's a novel or a bookcase. That's what we should focus on in this room. Otherwise, I fully agree with the Council of State that it is far better to vote on the original than on the copy.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-16.ana.ud1605e569	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 1684]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-16.ana.ud1605e587	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 1684]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-16.ana.ud1605e605	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 1685]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-16.ana.ud1605e623	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 1685]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-16.ana.ud1605e641	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 1685]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-16.ana.ud1605e659	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 1685]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-16.ana.ud1605e675	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 1685]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-16.ana.ud1605e691	It is the Annual Communications of the Data Protection Authority and the National Data Protection Agency for 2004 that are presented in this Storing Message. I would like to stress that the Storing Message covers both businesses, which gives a comprehensive picture of the data protection work that is always involved. The Data Protection Authority has made a comprehensive presentation of its activities. This report also provides an overview of a number of selected themes. A comprehensive committee will emphasise that this provides both a thorough introduction to key issues and a list of relevant areas of action. The Committee would also stress that the annual report identifies the challenges facing Norway in the fields of data protection. There is no doubt that the work on ensuring privacy is highly up-to-date. In the evening post today, we can read that 20 people have stolen their ID. Weighing birth numbers are used for criminal purposes. In December, we read that one in ten IT managers are reading their e-mails. In January of this year, the Sunnmørspost had an article about all the obstacles in the computer system that make the health care system unable to apply new technology. The Data Protection Authority recently adopted a decision related to doping tests at training centres. So there is no doubt that the tearing technological developments we have in our society have put privacy under pressure. It will therefore be important to maintain a strong focus on privacy protection. The entire Committee considers it important that the Data Protection Authority continues to be an active participant in the public debate on privacy and the new technological opportunities. The Committee also refers to the central role of data protection in the area of data protection, not only as a manager of the legislation we have, but also as a pre-missive in relation to its development. In particular, I would like to stress that the Committee wants the Data Protection Agency to be both a provider of premises and a proposer in relation to the necessary changes to the legislation. Modern computer technology and an increasing amount of e-mail provide opportunities for detailed monitoring far into the personal sphere. Increasingly, both work-related and private information has been e-mailed in recent years. There is every reason to be concerned about a development that proves to be capable of violating the integrity of employees, whether public or private. I mentioned that one in 10 IT employees are reading employees' e-mails, according to a survey conducted by NITO. It is also not known that the bitter conflict in the Rescue Company put the discussion of employees' e-mails on the agenda. This case clearly shows that Norway has a significant regulatory gap in the hidden monitoring of employees’ e-mails. It is necessary to focus on the boundaries of the private sphere. A conscious view of the issue of individual data protection rights is important in order to give way to society’s need for protection, control and efficiency. A debate on the privacy of individuals versus the need for modern society to be able to process and exchange personal data is both desirable and necessary. We believe that it will be necessary to draw a number of boundaries. In addition, the Committee considers it important that more than one supervisory body should be involved in these issues. It is quite natural that both the Labour Inspectorate, the employees’ organisations, the Children’s Ombudsman and the Data Protection Ombudsman are among those who should be actively involved in the debates. So it's an overall committee that's behind the content of the annual report that's been delivered. As regards the future political treatment of data collection, use and storage, the Committee has shared. The right, together with the Party of Advancement, the Christian People's Party and the Left, believe that the Government will bring a case before the Grand Duchy. We have put forward a proposal on this. The Workers' Party, SV and the Centre have submitted a counterclaim, indicating that the Government is working on this. The question is, what does the Council of State say? Can the Government confirm that the Government is now working on all these important issues in the field of privacy? In which way will the Government come to the Great Government with this? I would like to take this background and wait for the Council of State to respond, wait to address the minority proposal. In conclusion, I would like to say that I have registered that the representative Dørum has today submitted a private proposal for the appointment of a data protection commission, and I would like to accept the views of the Council of State on this as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-16.ana.ud1605e721	The party of progress is pleased to have the entire committee set up in St.meld. No 40 for 2004-2005 on the 2004 Annual Reports of the Data Protection Supervisor and the 2004 Annual Reports of the Data Protection Supervisor show that the work on ensuring privacy is highly up-to-date. This means that we feel sure that both in the Committee and in the Stortinget there is a broad welcome about the work carried out by the Data Protection Authority and the Subject of Privacy Policy. Its presence is particularly important in a society where technological developments are taking place at a fast pace and where privacy is put under pressure every day. In our eagerness to exploit as much as possible an accelerated technological development, this can lead someone to think of taking a light and dubious shortcut to achieve their goals. The danger that we then violate privacy is still increasing. In such a context, the Data Protection Authority, the name and the law of the individual are the defence agency. There is, however, a cross of mind for us to have to hear again from the Data Protection Agency that in many cases they come too late into the matter. We also note that the Swedish Data Protection Authority has pointed out that in several public publications and legislative proposals it is not listed as a hearing officer. This is not satisfactory after the Progress Party's view, and we will ask the Government to make the administration aware of this immediately. One notes that in today’s society there is a trend that shows a trend towards ever-increasing crime. So it's important, after the Progress Party's view, that we have instances that can be equivalent to such a development. It is very gratifying that there is a broad political multiplicity that supports the work of the Data Protection Supervisor and the Data Protection Officer in this area. With the whole committee pointing to the important role of the Data Protection Authority and the Data Protection Authority, I don't see it as necessary to say so much more in this case. However, I would like to end by stressing the important role of the Data Protection Authority as the manager of the existing legislation and as a precursor to the further development of the debate on privacy, in order to get this on the agenda. I feel sure that the supervision itself has great ambitions to do the best possible work to achieve a good and safe result for the benefit of us as citizens in this country. It must therefore be very gratifying for the Data Protection Authority to record that it has the full support and confidence of Stortinget in this work.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-16.ana.ud1605e738	The left has been committed to privacy issues for many years, and we have to admit that technological developments are continuing at a speed that we could not have imagined a few years ago. Privacy is under increasing pressure, and there is a great danger that politicians will be hung behind. That's why the Left today made a proposal for a Data Protection Commission, which I'm going to come back to in my post. ‘As sleepwalkers into a monitoring society’ is the rhetorical and thought-provoking question on the front page of the Data Protection Report of the Data Protection Authority for the anniversary year 2005. And there's every reason to question that more and more surveillance measures are being accepted in the light of the good intentions, but the sum of it all can be quite unpleasant. I am pleased that a joint committee says that there is a need for a continued strong focus on privacy, and that the central role of the Data Protection Authority is underlined both as a precursor and as a proposer. It does not relieve us politicians of responsibility in this matter. Human rights are threatened by evolution. ‘Everyone has the right to respect for his or her private and family life, his or her home and in his or her contact with others.’ It is a quotation from the European Convention on Human Rights. The annual report shows that there are several clear trends in data protection either under a strong pressure or on the waving front. These include areas such as private investigation, avoidance of information obligations, international fight against crime and terrorism, the fight against professional secrecy and privacy related to public databases, journal systems, re-use and storage of sensitive personal data, the publication of personal data on the Internet and the disappearance of anonymous or non-track alternatives. Individually, all measures for increased safety, efficiency, simplification of procedures, etc. have a reasonable justification. The problem is to see the whole of it and the sum of it, and that's, as the Data Protection Director, Georg Apenes, calls it: the tyranny of good intentions. It is based on the wish that such a more holistic approach should have been taken, that the Left now proposes a data protection commission that can address the issue thoroughly. A Data Protection Commission has to go into what we mentioned as developments. In addition, the challenge lies in a number of other areas — the use of passport biometrics, ID cards, signatures, use and registration of DNA, the use of crime-related footlinks as well as disease, the retention and retention of telecommunications data, the increasing control activities of self-employed workers by the employer by e-mail, the use of mobile phone and camera surveillance. This applies within the health care system – inter alia: patient registration, reservation facility and who should use and have access to information. There are new challenges with regard to registration using private cars, tolling, road pricing, mandatory GPS, etc. In the view of the Left, the Committee makes provision for a Data Protection Commission. We say that it is necessary to focus on where the limit of the private sphere should go, and we say that a debate is necessary. We believe that it will be necessary to draw a number of boundaries, and we say that it is important that more than the Data Protection Agency engages, and that we are concerned about aspects of development. In total: very many questions and very few answers. It should also not be expected in an annual report setting, but at the same time it is an expression of strong concern mixed with uncertainty about how the road goes on. That is why, in the opinion of the Left, we should raise the issue of privacy to an overall and fundamental debate and re-examine it, precisely in order to avoid us going as sleepwalkers into a monitoring society. Strong privacy is essential both for individual freedom and for democracy. The protection of the private sphere is a prerequisite for a free society. Freedom presupposes that every person is protected against improper registration, monitoring and interference in private life, whether it is the State or private bodies responsible for it. Democracy assumes that it is citizens who control the state, not that the state controls the citizens. A society that invades the private sphere or has an indifferent relationship with the registration and monitoring of its citizens is a society that is moving away from democracy and against totalitarianism.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-16.ana.ud1605e758	I am pleased with these posts that have been in Stortinget today, which underlines the Data Protection Authority's important and good work, and not least, as also the representative Åge Starheim stressed, that the Swedish Data Protection Agency has full support and confidence in the work they are doing. It is important that the Data Protection Authority does, because the Data Protection Authority has an important role to play in the media debate. There is a storm between something powerful from both east and west, and then it may be good to know that one has full confidence among the country's top parliamentarians. It's important, and I'm glad. I thought I would comment on a couple of points raised by the case officer and the committee. The Committee wrote: ‘The Committee considers that there is every reason to draw attention to the limitations and uncertainties of current legislation, including e-mails, in terms of data collection, use and storage. The need for clearer rules is very much present.» That is what I agree with the committee. Employers may have a legitimate interest and a legal obligation to have certain transparency in electronic tools that are put at their disposal. This may include: are required to maintain the information security of the enterprise, it may be a documentary obligation in relation to law and/or agreement, or it may be a duty to perform the activity of the enterprise in connection with the addition of its absence. The employee on his side also has a legitimate interest and a statutory right to have a certain private sphere on the job. It is also enshrined in Article 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights. 1st@item: inlistbox In the context of the work on new work environment legislation, it was concluded that a more concrete legislation was needed to regulate the employer’s right of access to electronic equipment at the employee’s disposal. This should be considered in the privacy legislation. The post-control work on data protection, the data protection law, started in 2005, and in connection with this, the Ministry of Justice, the Data Protection Authority and my department have worked on the regulatory proposals of the employer with regard to their right of access to electronic communications. Because of the high demand for legislation relating to the transparency of e-mails, we have found it right to do this work in relation to post-control otherwise. We are now working on sending out a prescription proposal on a wide range of hearings now in our company, and the case will be submitted to Stortinget, because the bill makes it necessary to have a legal basis in the personal information law. Based on what we're working on now, the Storting is going to get it before summer. There is an answer to the question from the case spokesman. The task force has tried to give the best possible weight to both employees and employers in the regulation. However, the business and their needs are different, so we can see that the regulations must be adapted to the individual business. The regulations will therefore most likely be designed in such a way that in most areas they can be deviated by an action-adapted instruction. I would like to stress that the Data Protection Authority already has a kind of guide to some type of instruction in the field of its website. They have also foreshadowed the instructions they themselves have created for their addition. The NHO has instructions on its websites, and I know that the NHO will be contacted by many companies about it. The NHO and the Data Protection Authority are quite similar. I myself have met with the NHO about this, because it is important that not only the employee side, but also the employer side has a conscious relationship with this. I've been talking to the NHO about it, and I've also been talking to the main associations in the state about it. Since I am also a government employer, I am busy that we in the state are also going to put in place a code. When the regulation is in place, I'm going to finish it with the main associations in the state, so that we get a code based on the central rule, and then we're going to adapt it to our regulation. So that the committee is busy that it is necessary to focus on how the boundaries of the private sphere are going. Several have also been involved in it in their contributions. The back-testing of the Personal Information Act, which is under the Ministry of Justice, has begun. The changes in technological developments, in social conditions and in the threat picture have made it difficult to look at some of the laws in the light of developments since the law was adopted. In the post-check, the Government will do so. See if the decrees that were the basis of the laws are still sustainable. Two key themes here are the review of the concession institute and an assessment of the rights granted to individuals in relation to their own privacy. It does not help with clear limits on privacy if it is still easy to steal or abuse the identity of others unlawfully, even the debate on identity theft that has been in the media lately, the latest – as the case-speaker was in – in the evening post today. I will contact the various departments responsible for this area to find out about the various actions currently being undertaken or planned to address the challenges of identity theft. Of my own actions, which are under my department's responsibility, I can name NorSIS and NorCERT, as well. has the task of monitoring developments in the field of identity controls on the Internet, and of reporting on developments at regular intervals. We also have the IT Security Coordination Committee, KIS, for which my department is the owner, and for which the National Security Authority is the Secretariat. They discuss developments with a view to coordinating their authorities' work in the field and driving exchange of experience. We work with electronic ID and electronic signature. We think it can help make it a lot harder to misuse an identity on the Internet. Here we can refer to the work on the electronic ID and the Security Portal and to the quality requirements that are set for electronic ID through the requirements specification for electronic ID and signature in the public sector. Furthermore, the self-declaration arrangements established in the Post and Telecommunications Authority are important. It is also natural to include the Ministry of Justice’s interministerial working group, which issues national ID cards. The group, as part of its mandate, shall provide an assessment of the issue of ID robbery and identify the causes. It's the Ministry of Justice's area, and we'll follow it up closer to the Ministry of Justice. So here are several things going on -- something's going on -- just to address these issues. I can also tell you that I want to send a big message about ICT policy. It will be the Transport and Communications Committee which will be the subject of such proceedings. One of the themes we're going to deal with then is a wide-ranging discussion of this with privacy and information security. Several have argued that the representative Dørum from the Left here in Stortinget today has made a private proposal for an independent data protection commission. It will make it possible both in the government apparatus and here in Stortingen to discuss these challenges further. I can show that one in Sweden has set down a parliamentary committee. That Committee shall identify and analyse legislative elements relating to personal integrity and assess whether a data protection should be based on fundamental law. I also found that exciting, and it is a measure that can also be appreciated in Norway. Both freedom of expression and human rights have more generally been given their place in the Constitution. With the current pressure on privacy, there may be grounds to consider whether the protection of privacy should be given the same protection. It is a topic that can be highlighted in the debate on Dørum's private proposal and the big message we are going to present. Finally, I would just like to say that this has been a good and important debate. And as many people have said, it's important that more than data protection is visible in the media and in the public debate on these issues, not least to make each one more aware of the responsibility that we ourselves have for not giving away information that can be misused by others.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-16.ana.ud1605e789	The Council of State has made a clear statement on the matter. I just wanted to make some additional comments. What we see in today's society is that individual privacy is being challenged in ever-new areas. Not least after 11 September 2001, we see that data protection concerns need to give way more and more to what is perceived as public interest, where the security of the individual is to be ensured. Unfortunately, we also often see that this kind of consideration has to give way, without having to deal with the consequences that privacy considerations have to give up. In part, it is also seen that measures implemented are less targeted to effectively combat international terrorism; instead, they often only weaken the privacy of individuals. Fortunately, we have data surveillance in Norway that is awake, that plays a key role, and that is often more awake in public space than what we generally are as politicians. But what is quite obvious is that we need to organise as much as possible so that the Data Protection Authority can play an active role. It also means that where the Data Protection Authority is a natural actor, a party to be heard, in all the bodies dealing with political issues, we must ensure that the Data Protection Authority has the necessary time to decide on matters. It must be an absolute premise that we do not – let us say – deal with matters so quickly that the Data Protection Authority is not heard. It is important for SV to take that kind of consideration, because we have always been concerned with privacy. I also assume that the current government will take into account that when the Data Protection Authority asks for an opinion, it will be arranged for the Data Protection Authority to have the necessary time to review the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-16.ana.ud1605e800	As this debate shows, there is a very large degree of consensus on the setting and the topic we are discussing. The attitude and debate clearly show that there is a great deal of satisfaction with the way in which the Data Protection Supervisor and the Data Protection Officer carry out their work, and underlines the importance of the job being done. It is therefore important to stress, as the rapporteur did, that the Data Protection Authority has an important role as a pre-miss provider in the design of new laws and regulations. It must have a central place, so that we do not, for the sake of good, want to respect the principles of privacy. That's how new technology challenges us. It is quite obvious to everyone that one does not open other people's letters. Most people with some degree of education have learned that. But then it is not so natural that the letter of the new technology, i.e. e-mail, is equally private and personal. On the other hand, new technologies are also used by e.g. criminals against whom society needs to protect itself. It is precisely in that tense balance that we are going to avoid the criminal advantage of the authorities by using new technology, while at the same time defending ourselves that the new technology provides us with insights that violate the old principles of personal and private integrity. I believe that the comments made by the Council of State may hopefully lead to the vote on the proposal being dealt with as a transmission proposal. It has not yet been promoted either. I think it would further strengthen the agreed attitude to both the importance and the satisfaction of the job done by the Data Protection Authority and the Subject, and, as I said, further stress it and give clear signals. It's hard, as I've been involved, to handle technological developments in a way that doesn't challenge privacy. For those of us who have read Aldous Huxley’s ‘Wonderful New World’, it is an example of a society like, for example, Aldous Huxley’s ‘Wonderful New World’. developed gradually in a more controlling direction, where one finally stood back with a society that was not really wanted. If we do not want a transparently monitored society, then our challenge – and there we get good help from the Data Protection Authority and the Data Protection Unit – is that at the same time we have to take responsibility for the steps we take, even in sum, not leading in that direction, so that we do not achieve the goal we really do not want to achieve, because the steps are unconsciously leading in that direction. This is why the role of the Data Protection Authority and the Data Protection Officer is important in assessing each step we take, so that we do not go wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-16.ana.ud1605e819	You may be startled when you are visiting the Data Protection Authority, and when you read the Annual Report of the Data Protection Authority and try to get some insight into the possibilities for monitoring the individual, both in the case of cameras that thrive – just go to Oslo Central Station and see there – in the case of e-mails, average measurements of speed, toll crossings and registration of mobile use. So there's enormous technological possibilities to record what we're all doing as individuals. Therefore, it is so important that we have strong and good data supervision. In the course of the debate, it has, among other things, have been discussed in the context of fundamental data protection. I think it's basically a good idea, how to ensure the individual's freedom from being monitored, freedom from being seen in the cards. I think more and more of us feel the need to go a fundamental and thorough political round of how we can secure privacy, with the new technological possibilities. I think as politicians we can quickly hang out a little bit after what's about to happen. The setting also mentions something that has to do with something quite different, and that concerns ‘direct marketing’. When it first became a debate, I would like to comment on it. I have grandparents, and I see how this marketing works. I think the idea that's being aired is that instead of making a reservation for telephone calls and telephone sales, you have to register to join in, is a good idea, which should be discussed further and watched. Today, at least direct marketing against the individual is quite aggressive, and it affects special groups, especially the elderly. I think it should be further worked on what is mentioned in the setting, and I hope the Council of State will consider it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-16.ana.ud1605e828	I am glad that the matter has been referred to as widely as it has. It deserves both the case and the Data Protection Authority. As for the information we received from the Council of State, I would like to state that it was wide. She developed a number of fields. On that basis, I would like to ask that our minority proposal be converted into a transmission proposal. We come back to the contents of the matters to which the Council of State referred when the matters come to Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-16.ana.ud1605e835	The representative of Kari Lise Holmberg has re-submitted the minority proposal for a transmission proposal, and the wording will be changed accordingly. No more people have asked for the floor on case No. Eight. [[Footing, see page 1685]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-16.ana.ud1605e853	At the request of the Justice Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and will be allocated up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will make suggestions that there will be a change of line within the allocated speaking time of up to three lines with replies after the State Council's intervention. In addition, it is proposed that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the time allocated, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. The President sees it as a matter of fact.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-16.ana.ud1605e862	The background for the debate on Document No. 8:11 is that in the summer of 2002, a magazine, called the Free Current Report, contained images of adult people in sexual relations. Common to all the pictures was that the genital organs were not covered with cords during the sexual act. The magazine was printed in 13,000 copies and distributed to adults in the street, and also distributed to the staging representatives. After the distribution, the editor of the magazine was notified of an infringement of the penal code, point (a) of the first paragraph of Section 204. The case was first dealt with in Oslo District Court, then in Borgarting Law of Law and last in the Supreme Court on 7 December 2005. The editor of the magazine was acquitted in all courts. The question as Document No 8:11 travel, is what consequences the judgment will have for the future interpretation of the penal law section 204. I am not here to reproduce the whole of Section 204, but to point out that as the law is designed, the placing on the market and distribution of pornography in Norway is prohibited. Pornography is defined in the legal text as: ‘Sexual depictions which appear supportive or otherwise fit to act as human demeaning or outrageous, including sexual depictions where use is made of corpses, animals, violence and coercion’. It is a linguistic challenge that daily pornography is used differently. For example, there is talk. in the case of mosquitoes when human beings are naked, without any of the images being affected by the provisions of the Criminal Code. I would like to point out that here there may be a challenge for the Government to review existing criminal law when looking at future definitions of pornography against the content of the term in ordinary daily speech. So I'm going to deal with the various proposals that are being made by the proposers. There are a total of six proposals, the first four of which are legislative amendments. Proposal 1 emphasises that Section 204 should be amended in order to include gender-impairing descriptions in the prohibition and to ensure that the consideration of the adverse effects on children and young people is given importance in assessing what is pornography in the sense of the law. Proposal 2 concerns the prohibition of the production of pornography. Proposal 3 concerns the prohibition of the dissemination of pornographic images to people who do not want such material, and proposal 4 concerns the prohibition of the public display of pornographic images. The Committee has a broadly overall overall attitude, and it seems to me to have been a strength. An overall committee points out that there is currently extensive work in the Ministry of Justice with a new special section of the Penal Code and that any changes to Section 204 should take place in connection with the treatment of the Special Part of the Criminal Code by the Storting. However, the Committee has some comments on the various proposals intended to lead the Ministry of Justice's work on criminal law. The Committee agrees with the proposers that children have a special need for protection against sexual portrayals which are not intended to have a purely pedagogical content organised on the child’s premises. I noticed that in the previous case, where the Data Protection Authority has closed the website at best.no, or rather has decided that they have to delete information and images of children under 15, one sees some of the seriousness that is attached to children and young people. They are delivered on websites, perhaps unthinkable, and then they may be tormented for many years afterwards, without being protected from it. I understand that the proposers here have been concerned with this kind of child protection. In a number of contexts, you can see it as a sort of prudence when you go in and you're going to review something in relation to a Supreme Court judgment, but here, as the case-law rapporteur, I would like to point out that the proposers are involved in an important area. This is an area there's no reason to minimize. We also see that children become victims of a raw industry in which they are sexually exploited, and this can have extremely serious consequences. We also see that children in the public room are exposed to images that they have not asked to be exposed to, and that applies to others as well. The Committee is committed to finding the means to be voluntary and to be able to choose to and from sexual portrayals. It will lead too far within a five-minute speaking time here to go into detail on the Committee's other comments, but I believe that the rapporteurs themselves are also commenting on a part of the Committee's position. For an overall committee, it is important to take the comments we have and use them in the treatment and review of the criminal law of the Ministry of Justice. We assume that this will result in a case to be dealt with during 2007 when the specific part of the penal code has to be reviewed.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-16.ana.ud1605e889	The Internet and electronic communications have created a new reality. For children and young people, this reality is a matter of course. The Internet has always been there. It's part of their environment and contact networks as much as the neighbors, the classmates and the football team. Adults are not always equally aware of the dangerous situations that may arise via the network. Online anonymity can also make it more difficult to reveal people with suspicious intentions. The usual danger signals are not necessarily present, the child may not be aware that the person they're talking to is actually an adult man. The fact that the contact is made over the Internet can also make it seem less dangerous to talk to people you would not otherwise have talked to. Network contact also allows to build a relationship of trust over time. Infringements committed after Internet contact were precisely the background to the British criminal code on ‘grrooming’. In this case, an adult man of 33 years had committed sexual assault on a 13-year-old girl whom he had met online. Over months of chatting, he had built up a friendship with the girl. After this attack, he was apprehended when he was on his way to meet a new girl of 14 years. The case led to a debate on the possibility of apprehending and punishing persons prior to the offence. An individual criminal order against so-called ‘grrooming’ was adopted in 2003 and entered into force in 2004. In a serious way, this British criminal code makes it a crime to travel to meet a child whom you have communicated with at least twice in the past, in order to commit a criminal offence against the child. So the crime is executed when you meet the child or travel to meet the child. So it's not a requirement that there has been an actual infringement. Protection of children and young people from abuse is a priority area of the Government. In its Memorandum of Understanding, the government has said that it wants to intensify its efforts to combat child abuse. It has also been said that further efforts will be made to prevent Internet-related abuse by applying filters to network providers and assessing the implementation of a ‘grooming’ provision. I think it has a lot to do to criminalise the preparatory action. This would not be an innovation in Norwegian law. At the same time, I believe that one in cases discussed here has come further than to the stage of thought. The adult has communicated with the child, a meeting is agreed, and one is on its way to this meeting, without the child's parents being involved by the adult. 50,000 Norwegian children between 9 and 16 years of age have spoken to strangers on the Internet and later met them. 10,000 of these children felt that people who pretended to be children turned out to be adults. For 30 p.m. of which the children go alone to a meeting with a web friend. 1000 children have experienced that the person they have met has tried to damage them physically, or has said bad things to them. Only 1/5 of the parents know about the children's meeting with web buddies. In 2001 Google search gave 425,000 matches to the search term ‘child pornography’. Interpol’s database contains more than 150 000 images of 25 000 abused children from over 50 countries. Every day, Kripos filter posters are displayed between 13,000 and 15,000 times. Every day – in Norway! In the case of child abuse images: the law is significantly strengthened. One has been penalised by a criminal law, § 204a, which prohibits and punishes any form of possession of such material. It is important that we, as politicians, follow this development closely. I'm referring to what a collective Justice Department said exactly one year ago: ‘The Committee asks the Government to follow developments in the industry closely. If the Internet service providers in Norway do not have a filter as mentioned before the end of 2006, the Government Committee shall submit proposals to the Stortinget which so require.’ They went on to say, ‘The Committee believes it is important that New Kripos’s counselling service to report on sexual abuse of children on the Internet be made more accessible and better known’. We must be willing to deploy resources for, among other things. information work, support non-governmental organisations, police and look at the possibilities to regulate this field.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-16.ana.ud1605e929	The Progress Party will refer to what the Workers' Party and the Advance Party said in connection with the treatment of the Basic Law § 100. in Innst. [[Freedom of expression]] S. No 270 for 2003–2004. Among other things, these members say: ‘The members of the Committee of the Workers’ Party and of the Progressive Party point out that the prohibition of pornography, in the same way as other restrictions on freedom of expression, must meet the criteria which require the intervention to be defended ‘stopped the rationale of freedom of expression in the search for truth, democracy and the formation of the individual’.These members point to the fact that pornography as an opinion relates to the free formation of opinion and that today’s provisions intervene in it. This does not mean that it is desirable or necessary for such opinions to be included in the opinion-making process, but that it is accepted that many people want access to such opinions.These members believe that the concept of pornography should be redefined and adhere to the proposal of the Freedom of Expression Commission to change the general definition of pornography in Section 204 of the Criminal Act, so that it no longer includes descriptions of ‘general sexual activity’.In the view of these members, the limit on legal and illegal pornography should be linked to harm-following considerations and not to purely moral and moral considerations.These members may find it difficult to see the reasons why Norway should have stricter provisions in this area than our neighbouring countries and consider a change of these lines to be appropriate.’ [[...]] Let me tell you that the Advance Party is still on that vision and the notes that we had at that time. The Progress Party will follow this up when the Government submits proposals for the specific part of the Penal Code. Finally, I would also like to inform you that the Progress Party takes note of the Supreme Court ruling in the so-called Current Report case.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-16.ana.ud1605e956	I would first like to commend the case rapporteur for a serious discussion of a question that most people gibberish and flirt about. But there's really no reason, because this case has as big complications as the question of prostitution, and it's partly related to that question. I also want to praise the case rapporteur for making such detailed comments for us, without actually saying anything more than that this should be dealt with in the context of the revision of the penal code, and that we should continue to have a legal regulation where it is necessary to protect individual groups, in the same way as today. That's what the committee has been thinking about, nothing more, even though some in the media have partly oversold what we actually agreed on in the vote. Several of us had to read it quite carefully several times after the release – to find out that some people might be more concerned with getting a good look in a single medium that reaches certain groups, than to present it like that correctly. The framework conditions for the discussion we are going to have should in a way be that we relate to the world of reality. Everyone agrees that children have to be protected from abuse, and we have to do everything that can be expected to have effect, to prevent them from being destroyed for life. The proposers here have full right-wing support. In relation to the debate on ‘grrooming’ and what is happening online, text messages and msn, there is a limitless naivety among many parents. The shift in media use is such that children live their lives online, parents do not have a bearing. Parents may ask a question when there is a lot of time and perhaps money going on, but questions about the content of what is happening online, they do not ask – simply because they themselves do not participate or have a bearing on what is happening. We have just seen a possible consequence of that. A couple of boys who had been attacked took the law into their own hands, infiltrated pedophiles, and finally they pushed them for money. The last thing you can't defend. But at the same time you can have an understanding that those who had been subjected to the kind of actions just felt that no one saw them – they were subjected to a gross assault, they were not taken seriously, and they have ruined their lives. This shows some of the consequences if child abuse is committed. I was in a chat line yesterday, one of the most popular. There was a show of pornography for a long time, and there were invitations to young children, without the moderator intervening in any way. That's the situation in parts of the industry today, also in the so-called serious part of the industry, and we have to do something about that. Having said that, I have to say in relation to the case we are dealing with here today that I am a little wondering about the claims that it has almost floated porn everywhere, especially in gas stations and kiosks. On the Internet, there is a clear parental responsibility and adult responsibility, and so it should initially be in kiosks and in gas stations. But as Swedish traffickers with a great need to stop at gas stations on both sides of the border – in order to provoke the dietist fanatics and the «carbomafia» – I have to say that children must have become unusually big lately if they are at their immediate height. My impression is that the kiosk and petrol station industry is actually taking this seriously. The places where you don't do it are in the dark, and there's nothing kids can do about it anyway. That up to several adults in between have sex, and that technology is moving forward, there are two trends that have come to be, to say the least, careful. Before democracy was at all intended, there were cave paintings showing both one and the other. People have at all times found new ways to show what's going on, and not least how. The discussion of what is stronger than sexual activity is likely to be summed up in the fact that man’s curiosity about other people’s sexual activity is most likely to compete with the desire to try the Saturday pizza from Grandiosa. With new technologies, it has become even more possible to satisfy that curiosity, and it is in the situation that the Government is going to design a regulatory framework that takes inward that it is not necessarily that all those participating are helpless victims, and that those who watch are perverted peculiarities and potential attackers. At the same time, the Government shall work to strengthen the protection of the weakest and to try to take the environments and individuals who systematically commit assault and exploit other people. It is the approach chosen by the Committee and by the Right, rather than a moralising — perhaps especially religious — attitude that has been shown in very different contexts to create a greater risk of abuse, due to a lack of action and strategies on how to deal with it. Looking at porn isn't exactly an intellectual exercise, but I think the case rapporteur and the committee have suggested that the theme can at least be debated intellectually, with the root of reality and without subjective, moralizing overtones.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-16.ana.ud1605e979	Supreme Court ruling on the ‘Free Current Report’ restricted the concept of pornography in criminal law. The consequence of this decision is that more serious pornographic descriptions are now allowed to be sold over disk in Norway. It is difficult to see the positive effects of increased access to pornographic material. Pornography is largely descriptions of sexual acts totally detached from ethical and social responsibility. Uncritical use of pornography can therefore contribute to undermining community values that society needs and has the right to protect. Permitting more serious pornographic descriptions is, in my view, unfortunate in a society that is already heavily influenced by commercial exploitation of sexuality. When Christian People's Party politicians talk about pornography, more people see it as talking about sexual morality. That's why it's important for me to make it clear that the Christian People's Party's attitude to this topic has nothing to do with morality. We don't interfere with what adult people on a voluntary basis do within the four walls of the house. But it is our more solar duty to ensure that society sets reasonable limits on what should be allowed to sell at Narvessen and 7-level. The law’s law on pornography does not take into account the particular concern that pornography can have an adverse effect on children and young people. Nor does it reflect that pornography often produces the woman in a degrading and offensive way and reduces her to a sexual object without her own will and needs. In the view of the Christian People's Party, these matters should be taken into account in determining whether we are dealing with pornography in the sense of the penal code, and we believe that today's law should be amended to that end. We know that there is an abuse in the production of pornography, and that drug use is widespread. No one wants their own children to work in the porn industry! Although participation in porn production today can be affected by criminal law, in our view, there is a need for an explicit ban on the production of pornography. The prohibition should primarily affect those involved on the production and financing side. The starting point for the Supreme Court case was that in the summer of 2002 the magazine «Free Current Report» was unsolicited to all the representatives of the magistrates and to the streets of Oslo. In order to prevent pornography being distributed to persons who have not requested it, we believe that a ban should be imposed on the dissemination of pornographic images to persons who have not ordered such a material. An exhibition ban should also be introduced to prevent children and young people from being exposed to pornography while buying Saturday goods in kiosks or in service stations. The fight against gross pornography cannot be fought solely by criminal law. It is necessary to initiate a dialogue with those who distribute pornography, in order for them to refrain from selling this type of material. It is necessary to work internationally to ensure a stricter law against pornography in other countries. I would like to pay tribute to Mr Ballo and to the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights who have examined the proposals in Document No. 8:11 in a thorough manner. I am pleased that a joint committee states in the opinion that the concept of pornography should also include gender descriptions in the future that have an adverse effect on children and young people. The Justice Committee also asks the Government to consider imposing a ban on the production of pornography in Norway and a ban on the exhibition of pornographic magazines and films. In addition, the Committee supports the proposal of the Christian People's Party that pornography be distributed only to those who want such material. This is good! It is, however, of concern that the proposal to prohibit gender discrimination was not made at all in the position of the Judicial Committee. Here's the silence talking. Will it not be true that some women in 2006 are being suppressed as sexual objects? Is that a taboo for politicians and for women's leading taboos? Everything should be so cool, hip and trendy. Solidarity with women working in a human and cynical porn industry is «hazardous»; it is a risk to end up with us «puritans» – and it may seem, one must avoid at all costs. Even if we in the Christian People's Party wish full support for all our proposals, we are pleased that most of the proposals are mutually agreed. I am convinced that if the Government follows up the Committee's position quickly, it will contribute to less crime and fewer abuses against women and children.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-16.ana.ud1605e1011	The central part is in combination with the proposalers in the aim of protecting children and young people against pornography. Born and young people shall not be exposed to pornographic material in the public space or in the media. Grown-ups who do not consciously search for it must also avoid meeting pornography in their everyday lives. The public space has become increasingly sexualized. Via advertising posters, newspapers and magazines, or an unlucky touch on the Internet, pornography needs it, whether we want it or not. There is a need for legal regulation that limits the sexualised representations of public space and protects people from the involuntary exposure of noisy sexual images. We support the proposalers' view that criminal law must take into account that pornography can have an adverse effect on children and young people. In addition, pornography often produces women in a demeaning and crippling way. We think that these aspects of pornography have to be taken into account when it comes to assessing whether he is ‘stamping’ according to the law. When it comes to the concrete proposals, the Central Party supports the Committee's view that this must be seen in conjunction with the criminal law and the ongoing review of the Government. We will particularly stress the need for specific measures related to assault problems and children, and the sexualisation of children's everyday lives. I also want to challenge the progress game on a point. I have respect for the principle view presented by the Progress Party in this debate. What I'm missing is kind of constructive in terms of how a child and young person are more likely to prevent pornography from being exposed.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-16.ana.ud1605e1024	The left can join in the comments made by a group of Justice Departments in recommending the case, and we believe that the Justice Committee has dealt with this in a good way. We are very pleased with the comments from the committee that have come when it concerns children. There is also a good liberal principle that is expressed when the Committee stresses that each person has the right to set a limit to his own sexuality. People have to decide for themselves what they want when it's up to making sexual descriptions; not least, people have to let go of sexual representations in the public space when they don't want it and don't go looking for it. Freedom implies responsibility, after the Left's opinion, and the freedom to create and distribute erotic material does not imply the right to expose such material without regard to children and anyone else who does not want the sexualization of the public space. The left will decide on the individual proposal that may be made when it is put forward and when the legislation itself is discussed. But in general, Left believes that the law on pornography needs to be amended so that the description of legal sexuality is allowed. So we're not combined into a general tightening beyond what's signaled by the entire committee when it comes to children. At the same time as we can get a certain degree of liberalisation in line with the opinion of the Supreme Court of Justice on the issue of noise, the Left believes that the effort to combat pornography is linked to power and to children must be stepped up. It's reasonable and important to keep these things from each other. There is an important difference between the normal voluntary sexuality of adults and descriptions of coercion and abuse. Without such a separation, the fight against the real abuses that we see in our society would be weakened.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-16.ana.ud1605e1037	I would like to take this opportunity to pay tribute to the proposers, who have promoted this proposal, and not least to the committee which is making this statement. It is useful for the Ministry and the Government in the work to be done in relation to the specific part of the penal code. I am pleased that the Committee considers it appropriate that any amendments to the Special Penal Code Section 204 should be made in connection with this work. Pornography has been the subject of quite so much political debate, but not least legal debate, over time. The application of this provision poses many challenges, like other provisions containing legal standards. What is always regarded as offensive is not necessarily clear, except that it refers to a particular perception of sexuality and morality. As a result of the audit work of the penal code, I will not, at this stage, prejudge any changes to the penal law § 204, but I would like to stress that the Ministry of Justice will take into account the Committee’s comments – and many good comments – in its work on precisely the law on pornography. In particular, the Committee has highlighted the protection of children against pornographic material. I agree with the rapporteurs and the Committee that children have a particular need for protection from gender. Much can be said that this need is not covered by today’s criminal law, the criminal law §§ 204 and 204 a, as these today sound. For children, there is a particular legitimate need to be protected against legal sexual images and images, which are typically used in the distribution and marketing of publications and films. The question of giving rules on an exhibition ban has, as the Committee has also pointed out, been at the hearing. I intend to follow up with a proposal on this very point. I also agree with the Committee that adult individuals must be able to choose for themselves or from sexualised nakedness productions, and will take this into account in the audit work. I also agree with the Committee that Norwegian participation in international work is positive, and that is absolutely necessary to combat cross-border crime. This also applies to the production and distribution of illicit pornographic material. I would also like to stress that the assessments relating to enhanced legislation on pornography will be based on the principles justifying the use of punishment, which, insofar as the representative Nistad was also involved in his statement, was concerned. In NOU 2002:4 New criminal law, the Criminal Felony Commission emphasises the principle of a detention and targeted use of punishment. It is primarily acts which in some way pose a risk, or a risk of harm, that should be penalised. That's what we call the principle of damages. The principle is based on the fact that the individual should be able to act freely as far as possible and that punishment should be applicable only when serious reasons justify it. A type of behaviour should not be punishable simply because a majority would dislike it. In Ot.prp. No 90 for 2003-2004 — adopted by the Stortinget — provides the Ministry with its support for the principle of damages. Furthermore, it is stated that punishment should not normally be used to protect moral or religious standards, and that punishment is likely to have little influence on moral vision, at least in some areas. Moreover, moral attitudes will often be best built up and enforced through social sanctions aimed at those who have violated the norm. In connection with the treatment of the Constitution – Innst. S. No 270 for 2003-2004 – which was also the subject of the representative Nistad, the members of the Labour Party and the Progress Party stressed that the border between legal and illegal pornography should be linked to the harm-reduction considerations and not to purely moral and moral considerations. On a general basis, I agree with the considerations underlying this principle of damages. I also believe that the intention of the proposers is, in fact, to follow the principle of damages to a large extent. This principle, in addition to the Committee's comments, will guide the detailed assessment of precisely the determination of pornography.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-16.ana.ud1605e1059	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-16.ana.ud1605e1062	I thank the Council of State for a straightforward and good review from his point of view, for his assessment of problem areas/challenges in relation to pornography. It is clear that most of this is probably about attitudes, morals and values, and so it can be difficult for some people to find the balance point. I am also very pleased that the Council of State made it clear that the Workers' Party and the Advance Party were still on the ground during the treatment of Section 100 of the Basic Law, on freedom of expression. By extension, I could imagine hearing the thoughts of the Council of State in relation to the issues that lie on the other side. If one is to balance punishment and criminal relations against freedom of expression, cf. the principle of harm-reduction, what kind of primary difficulties/challenges does the Council of State see in this context?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-16.ana.ud1605e1069	When you want to put yourself on the harm-reduction principle as a leading line in designing new criminal legislation in Norway, it does not mean that we have solved all the problems. The challenges raised in relation to this issue are primarily to identify the type of damage involved in relation to, among others: the production of pornography. Many of us will have problems deciding if, for example. a production of what many would call erotic material, and some would call pornographic material, is actually pure harmful activity there and there — when it is produced. The border line up against what kind of damage it causes outside, of course, is not easy either. That is the big debate in relation to this. This makes it possible that, when it comes to the design of such legal rules, you should apply a precautionary principle to the sea, so that you allow doubt to benefit the weakest. The second challenge is the principle of utility: to what extent will criminal law really be useful? So far, it's been shown that they've survived to a small extent.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-16.ana.ud1605e1076	I also welcome the statement by the Council of State on the principle of damages. When amending a law, it should also be based on evidence. The proposers and a number of groups behind the proposers have suggested some research and some evidence, and I want the Council to answer whether he agrees with this assessment: one is that, as such, porn causes an increasing incidence of abuse, and the other is that it is a major problem today that in the daily food industry, shops and kiosks, it is such that porn is exposed in a way that is very easy to discover for children. There are two claims that are believed to be documented. Is there a type of assessment that the Council of State agrees with?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-16.ana.ud1605e1083	I'm not in such a position that I can decide whether all research is correct. But as politicians, whether we are in government or in general, we are forced, at least at a certain point in time, to take a stand as to whether we should introduce criminal codes. And then I have to say that we have relatively extensive and thorough research that clearly points out that at least parts of the pornographic industry obviously have harmful consequences, both for those who participate in the industry, and for the users. I believe that is beyond doubt. With regard to the question of how the situation is at gas stations, kiosks and their likes, to my part I have no experience material other than my own movements at gas stations – and I think that is relatively uninteresting in this debate. But what we have to take with us when we're going to consider the issue of exhibition bans is just the question of how far home is going to go. I would like to stress that in the case of precisely this type of law, there may be grounds for using a precautionary principle.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-16.ana.ud1605e1090	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-16.ana.ud1605e1095	The Christian People’s Party is pleased that the Committee takes the child perspective seriously. The setting determines that children should neither be portrayed as pornographic nor exposed to pornography. However, I would like to know what the majority consider to be pornography, and what should not be considered pornography. In the newspaper yesterday, Tom Thoresen in the Media Department called for a clearer law that defines what is a legal porno film. The liberalisation of explicit sexual portrayals takes one step further, following the knowledge of the film and videogram subject of the Complaint. The Christian People's Party is concerned that the woman's body should not be viewed as a salsa object. The increasing sex fixation in society helps to legitimize such a view. This is a step backwards for gender equality, as pornographic representations can contribute to a declining view of women. Equality is about human dignity. When a cynical porn industry and criminal backers in prostitution and trafficking make women the salaried, they violate the human dignity of women. Increased access to pornography will help undermine gender equality. We should address this as politicians, and I would also encourage the new gender equality and discrimination framework to address, which is driving equality. The pornography phenomenon of Strainfelova does not reflect the fact that pornography often produces women in a demeaning and offensive way and reduces them to a sexual object. I am disappointed that the Judicial Committee, where the Christian People's Party is not represented, should comment on the proposal that gender-disrupting portrayals be subject to the prohibition of criminal law § 204. The political philosopher Montesquieu defines freedom as the right to do everything possible. Freedom of expression, however, is a freedom under responsibility. The responsibility lies with each of us for what statements we let in, and what statements we let out. The anchorage can be found in the individual's conscience. However, it is important that the state regulates the opinions that violate individual people or groups. Uncensored violence and sex can cause irreparable harm to children and young people. Here, society must act as a filter to protect weak groups, by tightening legislation against pornography and ensuring that the porn industry does not get footholds in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-16.ana.ud1605e1112	I think this has been a good debate, and there has been an example of a case where, across party-political dividing lines, including between the opposition and the government parties, a matter can be taken seriously. It's quite obvious that different parties can have different approaches to these questions. I think, as I said in my first post, that it is commendable that the proposal has been dealt with. I also think that the Council of State has given a good answer that you will take seriously the issues that this travels. I do not think that the proposers have any particular good reason to be disappointed in the way the matter has been dealt with. It is precisely because it is difficult to define such concepts that there is no more explicit mention here of the prohibition of gender-disinfection or problematisation than the judicial committee has done. What is perceived as offensive to someone is very different to others. It is in respect of the fact that it is difficult to say that it is a task for the ministry in the context of the review of the specific part of the penal code. So I would say that parts of what the proposal concerns are one of the most serious things we see of assault problems, not least child abuse. I'm glad that all the parties are so clearly expressing the fact that you are both taking a distance from and needing clear instruments in relation to. I agree with the rapporteurs that this is also necessary in relation to women. There is a need for measures to ensure that there is no industry, nor in Norway, where women are subjected to abuse. The challenge is different from that of children, because it is difficult to define what is being assaulted, and what is voluntary interaction between two people. It is a challenge that the Ministry of Justice must also take seriously. This does not mean that the committee that has rejected the issue, that just means that it is difficult to define when it is an infringement. Is a show in Cupido with pictures of two people having sexual intercourse, pictures of assault issues? I don't think so, but it's clear that there are other magazines where there might be doubts about it. It would result in a disaster if the Judicial Committee went far along that path and tried to make those borderline moves. It's clearly a task for the ministry. I noticed that André Oktay Dahl, in part in a bit of a harpetizing tone, thought that the remarks contained little substance. I disagree. I believe that this debate has made it clear that the department here has been given some leadership that is taken seriously and that will have consequences in relation to the treatment of the specific part of the penal code.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-16.ana.ud1605e1123	I record that the representative from the Senterpartie has left the scene after making some criticism. It might have been nice to remind him that he should read the whole setting. He wanted to see the point of view of the Advance Party regarding children's need for protection in relation to pornography. Of course, it's one of the points that we've been dealing with and that we're going to be on, in this committee, and that we've been involved in tightening up legislation around the previous period – so it's quite undeniably. Personally, I think there are two key elements in a debate like this. One is the possibility and access to protect people from abuse. We all agree on that. We're 110 pst. agree. Of course, there are children in a special position because their needs have to be cared for by others. It is also likely that children, even though they are heavily victimized by peers, are also subject to excessive abuse by adults. Therefore, it is important to have a clear and good law that ensures children against abuse. I'm sure everyone at Stortinget is 100 pst. agree, and it will continue to ensure that legislation is optimal. It's a problem we're going to have a lot of attention on. Then I have to say I'm a little surprised by the representative Tørersdal of the Christian People's Party, who in his production mentioned all pornography – at least I experienced her post like this – as a woman suppressing. It's probably also that some pornography produces sexual intercourse between men, and it can't be said to be female oppressive. It is probably also a fact that the reason we have this debate is that all three of our courts have actually gone through and defined their perception of the concept of ‘constant’. In view of this, there are some people who have put forward a private publishing house, which is being discussed today. In other words, the legislator presents his thoughts about a law, cf. The criminal law § 204, which we are discussing today, and its considerations about the pre-workers and the comments the Committee had on it. Then a court of law decides whether what has been discussed in this “Current Report” case is a criminal offence under the law that exists. It's concluded that that's not the case. It means, in other words, that the Storting presents its laws and considerations around them, and then there is a court that goes up the margin behind how it should be understood and how it should be used. What happens then is that Stortinget has a new opportunity to agree or disagree with the judgment of the Court. If you disagree, you can change the law again – if you don’t, you’ll notice that that’s the way it is. In conclusion, I would like to say that this is a matter that is probably so much about what we do not like. I guess that's also the way that one likes, the other doesn't have to be the same. So there's going to be a difficult debate, because there's no common norm for what's right or wrong for each of us. It'll probably vary to a very large extent. Personally, at least I am a supporter of not automatically prohibiting things I do not like very well. In that case, I should have promoted even more Document No. Eight proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-16.ana.ud1605e1136	In connection with the fact that I was perceived by the representative, Ballo, as being a harpsichord, I would say that this was not meant to be. Nor was it intended to suggest that there was little substance in the comments. There's a lot of substance in the notes. The reason why the committee is unanimous is that we have not joined the Christian People's Party's opinions on pornography as such, and all the issues underlying the proposal that have been presented. That's why I found reason to fix a lot of things that have been going on in the media, like the Progress Party and the Right have been on this, without us going out in the media and saying that we're against it. So we are not concerned with the assessments that the Christian People's Party makes of its proposal. That is why I have used the opportunity to praise the representative Ballo for his handling of the matter. Otherwise, there are some paradoxes that apply, and I am, as I said, pleased with the position of the Council of State. The representative of Ellingen was concerned with this with gender focus. It's actually like one third of the pornographic turnover is about homophilis. Then you can like it or not, no matter what party you belong to, but that's the situation, and then it's a little hard for me to see that it's very discriminatory against women. Otherwise, there's another reason why we went into this with production and sales. There is a reason why it needs to be assessed more closely, because such an absolute ban could affect individuals – individuals – who actually film themselves and sell it to neighbors and acquaintances and perhaps even more. If you want to impose a strict ban on it, you want to hit individuals who practice normal sexual practices and sell them to a few. But it's going to be some kind of turnover. If you follow the proposal as it exists, they will be considered to be hallucinators, and the buyers as whores. It's a kind of example of a law assessment that the department has to make, and that's why I'm happy with the Council of State's position, and that the representative Ballo has had the attitude he's had all along. Then I could imagine in a different context challenging the Christian People's Party on how to combat abuse in some Christian environments. There's been a lot of silence about this. I had recently an episode in my own community, where there was an employee who the prosthet knew was convicted of assault, but did nothing about it. And this is just a simple example of how abuse thrives in some Christian environments, because you don't take it. That's what I think is actually a very important issue as worrying about adults, up-and-coming people getting access to normal, general sexual activity.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-16.ana.ud1605e1147	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1685]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-16.ana.ud1605e1163	On 29 April 2004, the Council of the European Union adopted Regulation No. 871/2004 and 24 February 2005 Decision 2005/211/JHA — Justice and Home Affairs cases concerning the introduction of certain new functions in the Schengen Information System. [[EF]] The Schengen Information System (SIS) is a computerised register for use in all countries participating in Schengen cooperation. Norway participates in the cooperation in the SIS as a result of the Schengen Agreement. Under specific conditions, Member States may exchange certain types of information through the register. Information on persons may only be registered in the SIS for specific purposes which are strictly regulated by the Schengen Convention. The functionality of the computer system ensures the possibility for Schengen authorities to search automatically for information on persons and objects provided, including: in the exercise of external border control, in criminal investigations by the police and in order to ensure public order and safety. Implementation of the changes to the SIS will require amendments to the Schengen Information System Act. Therefore, in accordance with the second paragraph of Section 26 of the Basic Law and the Agreement relating to the Schengen acquis, decisions on the further development of the Schengen acquis have been notified to the EU by the Norwegian authorities for the purpose of their acceptance. The Committee believes that strengthening cooperation between police and prosecution authorities in the Member States is an essential element of the EU Action Plan on Terrorism. The Committee agrees that, as part of this work, the rules on the use of SIS should be improved in order to make the system a more effective tool in the fight against crime and the averting of acts of terrorism. The Committee pointed out that an extension of the right of registration is to increase the effectiveness of international police cooperation in order to resolve several criminal cases involving international branches. The Committee also points out that the proposal also implies that Norway will continue to be a full partner in this cooperation and that cooperation with the other Schengen countries will be based on common rules on border control and police cooperation. The Committee welcomes the proposals submitted by the Ministry and also has no comments on the question of consent to the approval of decisions on the further development of the Schengen acquis.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-16.ana.ud1605e1180	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1686]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-16.ana.ud1605e1201	The Labour Party has a vision of a safer society where everyone can live in security. This is what we want to do by preventing better, clarifying more, reacting faster, and rehabilitating better. We can't sit quietly and watch that almost 90 pst. of all the victories in Oslo are still unsolved, or the majority of those who are being selected and elected in the world feel that society is not responding. I know that the government is already doing well to address these challenges. What I want to focus on here today is the use of DNA analysis in criminal justice. I think it's important to give the police the opportunity to increase the use of DNA analysis as evidence when it's presumptuous. This must be followed up by a further debate on police methods, development of competences and equipment, in which the key principles of legal security and data protection are maintained. DNA material is an effective investigation tool. By using DNA registration, a faster identification of the perpetrator, prior clearance and multiple convictions is achieved. At the same time, it is clear that DNA evidence can be an important legal guarantee, since one can eliminate suspected and prevent false convictions. One example: in the United Kingdom, the general percentage of information at break-in was 14. In case of DNA-track intrusion, the clearance rate was 45. Today, there is the possibility of DNA registration of people convicted of serious criminal acts, such as killing, dictating, grossly-elected and grossly gross. The Labour Party has previously called for an extension, so that criminal offences other than these also allow registration. This will increase the percentage of information, not only by serious fractures such as killing and tracking, but also by fractures such as burglaries and vehicle traffic control. I want to score three things: 1st@item: inlistbox Increased risk of detection could reduce crime individually preventively by increasing the risk and cost of being a criminal. It should also make it harder to be an active criminal.2. Increased clearance will also make ordinary people feel more confident that no one will frame the boat or the silverware theira.3. Several will feel that it is useful to report police and that there will be a more exact match between real crime and notification statistics. It is worth noting that in NOU 2005:19, Act on DNA registers for use in criminal justice, there is a significant increase in the use of DNA compared to today. What's bad is, what action is going to lead to registration. The majority advocate that all convictions leading to prison sentences be DNA-registered. The minority saw the limit at six months of imprisonment. It is advisable that only convicted persons should be registered. Police will not be able to retain samples of suspected or targeted samples, as such samples will be destroyed. This is in line with developments in other countries. It is important to have a thorough debate on the right to retain samples and how long they should be stored. The distribution also concludes at another important point: Privacy does not prevent the implementation of increased access to registration. I have also noticed that the question of whether to research on this register has come up. I agree with the selection that this has nothing to do with the debate on biotechnology and biobanks, and that it is thus not appropriate to allow research on this register. Then, of course, the question arises as to what to do with the physical experiment itself afterwards. An important challenge here is the question of whether a sample should be stored for the future, in case there is a need to analyse it in another way later. An argument for this is that technological developments are so fast that it may be appropriate to examine the material in other ways in the future, as the methods of analysis are still being developed. A counter argument is the question of abuse. If a re-analysed sample opens in the future, no absolute anti-abuse guarantees can be given. I'll see what comes out of the recording when it's out on the listener. Some of the most important thing about giving increased potential for use of DNA analyses is to get the clearance rate up. The second point that is particularly important is that this register is centrally funded. It can't be that bad economy, for example. at the end of a year, the police refrain from submitting tests. It has also been shown that there is a small professional environment in Norway, and an extension of this register will obviously have to be followed up with more people working on it, thus increasing the environment and ensuring quality. With the exception of single twins, all human beings are unique DNA. I would like to point out that increasing the use of DNA samples is one of several instruments that can contribute to increased clearance. But it's also important here to think of well-being. We know, for example. that the majority of the offences are carried out in alcohol or drug use, so that a restrictive drug policy must always be at the bottom. I would like to challenge the Council of State on what can be done to discover and solve more crime. I want to challenge the Council of State on two important fundamental issues: What types of crime should the use of DNA be extended to? What kind of frames should be set for registration in the DNA registry?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-16.ana.ud1605e1243	Interpellant puts the spotlight on one of the two major challenges facing the fight against crime in Norway. We kind of have queues at both ends when it comes to fighting crime. The debate on restitution queues and reaction queues has been up in Stortinget in the past, and I shall leave that in this round. But what you often forget about when you're talking about fighting crime in its entirety is all the undiscovered crime we're all facing, which never comes to the police's knowledge, and which never gets a response. For the most serious crimes, on which the interpellant was also involved – I can mention, for example: Raped – is it a paradox that we have largely debated the level of punishment of the few who are actually being taken, while a few-and-a-half percent of the girls who are being raped never experience that there will be any criminal response. There's a situation The government doesn't intend to live with. We actually want to discover more crime. If we are to prevent and combat crime in society, we are totally dependent on being able to discover more of crime. Today’s crime scene contains a wide range of criminal acts, all of which must be given the necessary priority by the actors throughout the criminal justice chain. Winning crime is often referred to as part of everyday crime. Such crime often creates an unusual amount of insecurity and affects people's quality of life. In this way, there is good reason to say good-bye and dig the concept of everyday crime. Although such crime does not hit people most often, fear of being subjected to crime is negative in itself. We also know that parts of traditional profit-criminalism – which should then not be called everyday crime – are part of organised, cross-border crime and in many ways become the runners of large fish. It is therefore important that the police do not lose sight of the importance of detection, investigation and clarification of minor and apparently everyday offences. The public's confidence in the police and the general sense of security in society depends not least on how to deal with such crime. I would also like to point out that with regard to the description of the crime scene, a very small number of people are committing large parts of the crime, both in small and large cities in Norway. It also means that if we get more hits, that more is discovered in the field of profit crime, which constitutes the great deal of crime, there is a chance that we will also solve the more serious crimes. For people don't just do one type of criminal act, they like to have some kind of combi register to answer for. So it's a lot to earn, not just in relation to people's trust in the entire criminal justice chain, but we'll also prevent crime and bring down crime, both serious crime and less serious crime, by increasing the probability of discovery and the percentage of intelligence in what we in everyday life describe as more everyday profit crime. Therefore, it is necessary to combat the crime of profits by means of measures that improve and simplify the police and prosecution authorities’ ability to detect and solve crimes, while at the same time ensuring that the guilty persons are not relinquished with unlawfully obtained profits. Crime shall not pay off. This raises two main issues. Firstly, it is necessary to make much more active use of the possibilities of withdrawing the proceeds of criminal offences and to use the funds now available in criminal law. The government will also consider the possible extension of this if it doesn't show that we get better withdrawal results than what we already have. That's the one. The other thing I would like to point out, especially in relation to the question of the use of DNA, is that it is clearly important that we can use the extended use of the DNA registry. The government has expressed it, it's coming from the Soria Moria platform, and we're still expressing it. We think it's important. But it also assumes that the police will actually be able to investigate the issues where DNA profiles are obtained. It will be almost entirely contrary to its purpose and very useless to believe that we are solving the problem of low clearance percentage by just putting in motion increased access to DNA registration. This is also part of the background to the government’s decision to strengthen the police budget considerably as early as autumn in addition to what the Bondevik government left – precisely because we rely on more police force to address the actual evidence available in criminal proceedings. And if you introduce increased use of DNA, that doesn't mean we need less police resources. Probably we'll need more, just to check what's in these evidence, because this is also dependent on so-called common, old-fashioned, traditional investigation to see if there's relevance in the DNA evidence to a debt issue. It's not like the DNA evidence is a final proof. It is only a confirmation that he or she may have been in a place at a given time. It can help to clean, but also be a moment and an indisium in relation to punishment. That's why this debate is not just a debate about expanding the DNA register, but it's also a debate about the total police force we have in society. In recent years, the police have focused on developing methods to prevent profit crime. Through problem-oriented police work, a number of projects have been launched to address the issue of profitability. We are now reaping results of this, and there are many governments that are to have credit for it. In common with all these projects, a significant reduction in the overall crime picture is achieved when you work systematically over time. It is of great importance that the police, in cooperation with relevant actors, stimulate the public at sea to contribute to the protection and protection of their values. I want to give honey, among other things. to Oslo police districts and many other police districts that are now engaged in repeat projects — which aim to expose more profit crime, more of this crime per day — and which are in fact also capable of reacting differently to those that are actually being taken. You get fast custody prisons and quickly bring in to atoning, but you also have the ability to think differently in relation to the further track they need to have in order to get rehabilitation. So everything is related to everything in terms of this type of fight. We're going to work at the same time to increase the clearance rate. At the base of 40 pst. of all reported crimes resolved by the police. The rate of detection is highest in the case of serious crime. However, within the category of profit-criminality, the percentage of clarification is significantly lower. One important reason is that within this category there is a large number of issues where there is no information or track to go after to get the matter clarified. Typically within this category are bicycle thefts, theft of wallets in public places, theft of mobile phones, burglaries in cars, damage to cars. This is also a type of case in which the offence must be reported in order to obtain an insurance payment. This gives us incentives to move on from just the debate on DNA profiles in criminal justice. So the question is, how do we develop and apply new technologies and new methods? How we do it will be of great importance in the future to clarify crime, including – and in particular – the crime of profit, but this, as I said before, is also linked to other crimes. Such a development sees governance as important and necessary, for the police are constantly facing new challenges, and it is also important and necessary from the point of view of efficiency and legal certainty. DNA profiles are tools to solve more crimes. Today, there is access to DNA registration of people convicted of serious crimes, such as killing, rape, gross violence and gross rant. I want an extension of the access to record DNA profiles, so that other criminal acts also give access to registration. It is too early from the government team to clarify the question of where to draw the limit, but it is interesting to see that the sample that has investigated it has actually managed to gather significantly regarding the solution for the expansion of the DNA registry. However, the government has not reached a conclusion. This is how I attend the debate in this interview to hear what other parties and other actors have to think about it, so that we can get some valuable input into where the border is actually going to be drawn. Enhanced access to the use of DNA profiles will facilitate a significant increase in the effectiveness of the investigation. The chance of confessions increases where one has DNA matches, while innocent people can be excluded from one thing. This will reduce the duration and scope of the investigation, while at the same time releasing police resources. But as I said instead, we rely on police resources to just investigate the tests. So this isn't a free-of-charge job, as you get to expand this register. In addition, increased clearance will, in the opinion of the Government itself, be preventive. At the same time, the Government also wants a central funding of DNA analyses and that it now needs to be investigated, also with a view to getting a better structure in relation to the organisation of sampling. When we get to Stortinget with the proposal to expand DNA analyses, we're going to come back to the question of how we organize this, including the question of storage and when samples can be thrown.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-16.ana.ud1605e1278	I thank the Minister for the answer. I am very pleased that the minister sees the value of thinking about health and seeing the whole chain of criminal justice as a whole. The minister signaled that things will happen quickly in the matter of expanding the use of DNA registration, and I'm quite satisfied with that. The Minister also focuses on an important point when he pointed out that registered DNA profiles in the case of less serious crime can be met by far more serious offences – that is, by clarifying more profit-criminality, a serious organised crime and cross-border crime can also be solved. A moment that the minister also stressed is what can happen to people's perception of justice if a sense is sown that it is not useful to report a crime. I am pleased that the Minister will wait for the hearing before concluding on which the lower registration limit should go. Then you only get hope for many and good recordings in the listening round. Better withdrawal procedures to prevent crime from paying off, I also thought it was an important and good signal to get. I'm glad that the minister sees the benefits of greater potential for increased use of DNA, and I'm saying that it will be a good and useful tool to clarify more crime.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-16.ana.ud1605e1289	I want to take some facts that we now dwell on in the work that is going on in connection with DNA registration, and where I might especially invite the Storting to make some signals. The first is what the interpellant has been about: Where should the limit go when such a thoughtful expansion of the DNA register? There it's suggested that collating the rules with the fingerprint rules we have today, so you get an equal line for registering fingerprints as DNA, is a possible solution, and we know what the NOU and also this sample that's now coming, suggests. From the government side, I have to say that we are focused on a significant extension of the registration in relation to today's practice, but as I said, the limit is not drawn. In addition, it is procedurally such that the work of this sample has now been carried out at the hearing on 1 June and there is a basis for absolute waiting for the hearing bodies’ opinions before the Government takes the final position on this borderline. However, I would point out that both the majority's and the minority's proposals represent a significant increase in the use of DNA profile in the criminal justice area compared to what is available with today's legislation. It also means that we have a significant challenge in terms of how we organize the sampling, and how we organize the analysis work against DNA. It is tantamount to the call and clear formulation of the question of how this is to be financed, and it is also tantamount to the debate I have seen raised in the media recently on how, among other things, we have. organises the issue of the control activities of the work carried out. And it's clear -- there's exciting thoughts about being able to make this work more rational when we get a larger DNA sample volume. The debate will therefore focus not only on who will pay the bill, but also on getting the most effective and best possible quality analysis situation in this important area. There's one aspect Government will put a lot into it, and we'll spend a lot of time on it now, before we get to the Biggest in connection with the concrete legislative change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-16.ana.ud1605e1300	Women have a claim to a life of freedom without being subjected to sexual assault and without having to fear of such an assault. Rape is a serious violation of women’s freedom and is a violation of fundamental human rights. Today, sexualised violence against women is a serious social problem and a public responsibility beyond the responsibility of individual perpetrators. One of the biggest challenges we face in resolving issues is just the rape cases. There has been an alarming negative trend in this area, according to the Central Statistical Office. Since 1994, the percentage of reported rapes has dropped by one third, from about one third. 30 to 20 pst. Of all the rapes reported in 1997, we find that a total of 75 pst. I was hospitalized, 7 pst. 5 pst. ended with relief, and only at the base of 13 pst. ended up with one or more convicted perpetrators after four to five years in the judicial system, which is an unacceptable length of proceedings. The order of cases or the absence of a conviction is often felt to be a new offence. Then it may not be surprising that no more reporters report rape. Dark figures are high, but the crisis centre secretariat estimates that only one in 12 women report rape. In the prevention and combating of sexual violence against women, many measures need to be taken. Although some have already been done, much remains to secure women's freedom from sexual assault and to strengthen the legal security of women who are victims of rape and other sexual abuse. This is a social responsibility. Therefore, the percentage of information needs to be increased considerably, and it is necessary to ensure that the police have the methods and resources necessary to achieve this. The police and prosecution authorities have been able for several years to use DNA evidence in clarifying rape cases. But there are considerable variations in police districts between the extent to which DNA evidence is used in the clearance. The reason is most often that the police do not have financial resources to do this. That is why the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre have made a statement in the Soria Moria Declaration. ‘to allow police to increase the use of DNA as evidence when appropriate. We want central funding for DNA analyses, and we want to expand the DNA registry." We believe that it may make sense to give access to the use of DNA analyses similar to fingerprints, but meets the outcome of the hearing. It is also important that agencies other than the police are able to better secure DNA traces, and that the interaction between different agencies is good. In most counties rape services are established. It is important that these receptions have the competence to receive victims of violence and rape and to provide evidence. Quality-enhancing of sampling and documentation in the event of rape is required. Here, too, training on how to secure DNA tracks is important in order to help strengthen research and increase the percentage of intelligence. I want to end my post with a question to the Council of State: What will the Government do to ensure that other state agencies, such as the United States, are also involved in. within health services – and municipal services, I have to add – will have the necessary skills and resources to ensure DNA traces?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-16.ana.ud1605e1322	I have to give tribute to the interpellant first in order to raise a very important topic, which has also been discussed in this Chamber in the past. It is such that a good thing cannot be said too often, and in that way the interpellant will have a reward for having put this on the agenda again. I think, like others in the past, that some of the worst things we can be exposed to in a society are crimes that have been committed that we know we could have solved and that we could have held the perpetrator responsible for. When we have that certainty, and we have the opportunity and access to knowledge, but don't use it, we have to ask questions about legal certainty. You have to ask questions about the will and the ability to use the tools and opportunities we actually have. I feel that by just promoting this interpellation, this is part of what you want to tackle. It must be that if it is to be trusted, people must feel taken seriously, for example. in connection with the rape of the representative Bjørnflaten. I assume that the representative is concerned that people should be judged for what they have done, not just by getting an increase in the number of convictions. That's exactly what the evidence is going to do. It's probably also that many of the thefts that are being committed, it's a cabin break-in, in a car or in other contexts, may not be about the large amounts, but it's a large volume. It's frustrating, and it's angry, and not least it's trotting on the private sphere of people. There I think that to those degrees we have a job to do. So the so-called everyday crime, profit-criminality, has a volume. When we talk to the state attorney and the police, we hear that the huge volume is profit crime. If this tool, DNA, can help us solve more cases and get the perpetrator and judge him and give people a punishment that will take them out of circulation for a while, we'll fix these problems. And there are certain possibilities. What it's about is political ability, political opportunity and political desire to do something about it. The best thing to do with it is to gain more confidence in big business, in government, and in public services. What is the problem today, and to which the audience is headstrong, is that you sit and discuss heads and ears here while they are the victims of crime. There's no correlation, there's no logic in that it's like that. In this way, it's great that we have a majority government. We have a Minister of Justice who held an incredibly high profile as an opposition politician in the last period. Now he has all the possibilities. At the same time he also has a very clear and clear responsibility not least in this room, and it greets some of us warmly, warmly. That council should also be very conscious, is that by going out as high as he did in the previous period, he has placed the list high for his own part, and I am sure that the Storting overall, but also the media, will be interested in his ability to deliver once he has joined and taken over the job as the Council of State. The Council of State boasted in its intervention instead of policemen. We have a great lot of good people, and it's good. But it's getting a little paradoxical when he boasts of them while we know that the Oslo Police, to which the Council of State referred, has got a cut in the current year's budget. They've actually had a cut. Although the government lifted something back and compensated a little bit of the cut to Bondevik II, it is clearly a cut for the Oslo Police this year, and it is a big cut if you see it in connection with the 2005 budgetary agreement, which the Progress Party was in on, and which gave Oslo a rise of 125 million. kr. So the challenges are clear here. We're not in any doubt about who has the opportunity to do anything about it. It's the sitting majority government. Then more people have said that we should have a central funding. Yes, we warmly welcome that and, of course, we are going to back up on, under one condition, and that is of course that it should not lead to the corresponding cut out. I personally want the released funds out there to of course go to strengthen the service out there, not to balance what you might have to pay centrally. Then we just move the problem from one place to another, and we show that we don't want to raise the total, but we mix with numbers. I think that is a bad way to ‘refund’ those who are out there doing a job for us. So the government asks about the boundary by using DNA as evidence. So far, at least my position and that of the Progress Party have been that we should equate it with fingerprints. But I will of course wait until the matter has been heard, and then we will conclude afterwards. But what has to be clear, is that more people have to get under the regime where we can use DNA in evidence. In conclusion, I think, as the Council of State also had in mind, that trust is a key to the use of DNA. We have the Forensic Institute today, and we have the Forensic Commission that supervises them. As of today, we have some challenges there, and that should be taken seriously by the Council of State to a large extent.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-16.ana.ud1605e1348	I would also like to praise the interpellant, who took up and gave us the opportunity to discuss this topic. Crime trends and the desire to solve more issues mean that we are constantly looking for new methods and better tools to facilitate police work. We want a more effective fight against crime, and we want to strengthen people's confidence in the police and the judiciary. Now we experience and see that the use of DNA, and I stress together with other evidence, has a positive effect on the clearance rate. Then it is also positive that the government has announced that it will come to Stortinget with a case where it will propose to extend the use of DNA to several types of issues. But, as the Council of State itself was involved, it is also important that we get adequate funding, whether it becomes central or local. At least we have to get funding to make the method real and can be used by the police to the extent that the legislator will facilitate. The right has been very clear that we want to expand access to capture and record DNA evidence, but we are equally clear that we will take care of legal certainty and privacy. Today, the police are allowed to DNA-register anyone who commits serious crimes — murder, rape, gross violence, etc. – and now there is the DNA sample setting and instructions that it is possible to imagine that we should move on to include other types of crime. The right is basically positive to expand DNA records. An expanded use of DNA is a step on the way to solving multiple issues, and an extension of registers should focus on meeting specific individual groups that account for a large part of crime, so that these environments can be stopped more effectively than we do today. Extended DNA registration must at the same time focus on privacy considerations. A way to protect privacy may be a rule that registration for minor offences is deleted after a certain period of time if no new crimes have been committed in the meantime. Other data protection arrangements must also be considered. At the same time, we need to be aware that the use of DNA also has its limitations and cannot replace other traditional investigation methods. This was also the Council of State within its post. They must be used with other evidence to ensure legal certainty and to take account of sources of error, such as: the planting of DNA. Everything suggests that there is a broad consensus that we should extend access to DNA registration. But then we also have to make sure that this is an effective tool for the police. It has recently appeared in the media that today we have a DNA analysis system that seems very vulnerable. From the Right, we want to underline the importance of having a system that is not based on just one analytical environment. When it is that everything is raging if there are internal problems in this one environment, we need to assess whether not also actors other than the Forensic Institute can do the analysis job. Certification schemes should allow us to release other actors, including private ones, to analyse the tests so that police investigations are not delayed or completely stopped as a result of capacity problems. Several analytical environments could also have a cost-reduction effect in relation to today's situation, where we have a state monopoly that dictates the price. From the Right, we will also challenge the Minister of Justice to come back with proposals for funding adapted to extended access to the use of DNA as evidence. I believe it will be essential for the police to have a real opportunity to extend the use of DNA as a method.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-16.ana.ud1605e1363	It's an important topic that the interpellant addresses. There seems to be full consensus among all batches that the use of DNA should be extended to more cases than today, and that DNA as an instrument for resolving crimes is a useful tool. This means that you do not have to spend much time discussing whether or not to make more use of it. What is then being asked is the limits on when it is to be used. I record that NOU 2005:19 is in agreement with the need to have a significant expansion in the use of DNA, but that there are also some warnings raised in relation to the predictions against the use of DNA. I notice that it is a minority position, as among other things. The director of the Data Protection Authority is behind this, which problematizes some cases of DNA use. An example mentioned is: a newspaper editor who has written something that seems offensive, in the next round, risks taking DNA by him, and then it's going to enter a register? Are traffic failures supposed to lead to this? In terms of some of these examples, I think a lot of people would say that it obviously shouldn't. You would react even if you got into this situation, because you wanted to find out, why do you have to be in a register of biological materials? But just to clarify those premises, there's a need here for border crossings. Earlier today, we had a debate on the Annual Report of the Data Protection Authority, where all parties were concerned about the value of privacy considerations, and it is clear that that debate must be central to discussing the border crossings. It cannot be the creation of the DNA register because it is fun to have a register, and then the next time you start using the information that is provided, for purposes for which it was not intended at all, and without the person in the register having previously reflected on the use. I see that the minority problematizes what one will gradually be able to record, for example, biological kinship, heritable diseases and traits, ethnicity, age, hair color and sex. Many people would say that of course you shouldn't use it for it, but none of this is of course unless you have a law and regulations at the bottom that say it's actually not to be used for it. The most central discussion, therefore, about the use of DNA, relates precisely to the data protection barriers, since one agrees on the other, namely the need to have an expanded use to solve more crimes. Elisabeth Aspaker was also concerned with another aspect, namely that evidence can be planted, and that it is not that a crime is solved because one identifies a possible perpetrator by finding the DNA on site. It's of course important here as otherwise that there is only one of several instruments used. On the other hand, the cost perspective. As far as I have gained experience, an analysis today costs about NOK 1000. As with all other technologies, the price over time is likely to fall, but it is clear that if you don't use it targeted by analysis, you will have costs for the police who might have been more targeted in other areas. Such conditions must be problematic in order for the DNA registry to have the useful value that it is intended to have. SV is positive to an extended use of DNA, but will be concerned with the external border crossings that I have outlined here, not least in terms of privacy, when determining the premises for use.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-16.ana.ud1605e1383	Sometimes this debate has been almost a more general crime debate, but at least I'm going to try to deal more with the interpellant's interpellant, even though, as I heard the Council of State said, everything is related to everything, even in terms of fighting crime. The goal is devoted to the drug, as it is called, and everyone who is here wants – and that is probably a common wish in general in Norwegian society – that we should solve as much as possible of the crime committed, not least to ensure that there is confidence in the Norwegian rule of law. So the question is, what means are we so willing to use to achieve such a goal? That's exactly what this debate of the seventh and last might be about. DNA could be an effective forensic tool to detect and detect crime. I can say from the Christian People's Party that there is a need for an extension of the boundaries that exist today, because when we can use this type of analysis as a means of detecting crime. So I would also say that in the sample that has evaluated this, it's a majority, and it's a minority. So far, even if there is a hearing going on, I would say that I would rather not go in for that minority to recommend, namely that a limit be set by the fact that acts which under law could result in a six-month or more imprisonment should be subject to this type of test. I also think the following questions are important, which the sample also poses a problem: within what framework should this registration take place, and what should the register be used for? The selection is about what we all know: it's a huge scientific and technological development, and it's moving fast. It also advocates a precautionary principle. A continuous monitoring and discussion of the use of biological material in criminal justice is therefore essential. The Christian People's Party will place great emphasis on this when we are finally going to deal with the matter that the Council of State has announced will come in less than a very long time. Then we don't come from the fact that even with today's ability to use DNA tests, there are challenges to using them – as far as possible today, and then we'll get funding. I could like to challenge the Council of State a little bit more on how he sees the future financing of this type of instrument. Is he also looking for a central form of funding, or, as the representative Ellingsen pointed out, is it at risk that an extended use of this would be at the expense of other tasks that the police would also have to perform?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-16.ana.ud1605e1399	Earlier today, we had a debate on privacy. Then I talked about the concept that the head of the Data Protection Agency is using, that is, the tyranny of the good intentions. I have to say that I am pleased that this debate came today, but the way it is dealt with by both the Council of State and the party of the Council of State, I think it is a little scary. I miss having a Minister of Justice who goes into the difficult border crossings that this leads to, so that it does not just become a purely criminal policy debate. The interpellant is happy that the Council of State sees the whole thing, and then I wonder what whole it is that you really want to see. I am sure that Ballo actually has some considerations about the privacy interfaces here, and I hope that they will also get some insight into the Government. The left is very thoughtful if you can't set clear limits on how you're willing to use DNA. If you go to the majority position here, Ballo's examples aren't curious, because then it's about 40,000 people going into a DNA register every year. And then you move slowly, but surely into a DNA register that's finally going to apply to absolutely everyone, and you're always going to ignore people who shouldn't be there, illegally come into the police searchlight. In the left, we believe that harpoons should be used and not snorpenots should be used when moving into the legal instruments. And new methods give new opportunities. We think you need to have clear limits on how to use DNA. In the Left, we believe that it should be at least six months' imprisonment, it must be the decision of the courts to register him, and there must be a risk of repetition in order to get under the decision. That means that we're open to using this tool more, but it's only to be used in cases where it's important to do it. And then we think there's got to be limits on how long you're in the register, and on what it's going to be used for. It's important to set limits, because a DNA profile is something quite different than a fingerprint and can be used incredibly much wider to find information about people. We believe it is clear that such a rule must set limits on its being used only for identification of criminal acts, not for information on skin color, diseases and hair color, and for any other personal data you can obtain from a DNA analysis. Full rehabilitation is the goal of our entire criminal system. Therefore, the Left also considers that five years after a judgment has been passed, he should be removed from the register if he has not been told by a judgment that he should be on the register because the risk of recurrence is so great. We also believe it is important that everyone who is registered knows that they are registered and should receive a confirmation of whether they are registered, or whether they have been removed from the register, in a simple request. I think after hearing the introduction to someone here that in terms of the most serious acts of violence, and especially against women, absolutely everyone agrees. But if you can't tell the difference between serious violence against women and the fact that a 17-year-old is doing something stupid with the neighbor's boat and never gets the opportunity to start over again, we're going to be very strange with our justice system. Then we're back to the tyranny of good intentions, and then you can't distinguish between an excruciating neighbor and a raped woman. And then you should go home and read George Orwell's 1984.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-16.ana.ud1605e1416	Today's debate shows a good commitment from all the parties. I am also very pleased that the parties that are not represented in the committee have taken part in the debate. We really appreciated that. It's also very important that we consider such a debate, where we see this agent, the possibility of increased use of DNA, into a larger context. Crime is really an area where we see that everything is related to everything. It's the big contexts of their policies. I'll say a little bit about this. Increased prevention efforts, including through: Better urban economy, in fact, makes us take away part of the starting blocks of a criminal career for some people. Increasing your bets and focusing on the content of your soning makes more people better equipped to handle outside prison walls. Increased bets and focus on follow-up after settlement will prevent so many from returning to prison. Increased efforts at new and expanded police methods will keep us up with people's justice. We want to discover and find out more. The danger of being drawn must be large. Providing the police with the possibility of increasing the use of DNA registration when they find it advisable will be an important tool to discover and detect more crime, including the criminality of profits, such as alcohol, alcohol and alcohol. burglary and thieves. The central funding of the DNA analysis is particularly important to ensure that necessary analyses are carried out regardless of the current resource situation. I am satisfied with the answers I have received here today, and I see that the government is on track. Nor is there anything to delay on the speed with which the measures are implemented. I also perceive it so that everyone is contemplating an expanded possibility of using DNA. Then we'll have to debate the nuances of the lower limit of registration, and whether to keep the physical tests after the hearing period is over. Then we can bring with us the recordings that come from there, and of course we will take with us the recordings that we have received in the debate today.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-16.ana.ud1605e1431	I want to thank you for all the recordings. The rise of the privacy debate that the representative Trine Skei Grande had in his speech is also an invitation I warmly welcome – I see that she has left the hall, and it is sad that she does not want to attend and hear the end of the debate – no, now she has come again, I am pleased – because the government actually wants to hear what the hearing authorities say. It would be sad if the Council of State were now to conclude on where the borders would go. My invitation in my main post was just to give you the opportunity now to also mark some lines from Stortinget's side in relation to the Government, which I have noticed in many areas positive and constructive input to. If we had concluded in relation to border crossings now, as suggested by the representative Trine Skei Grande, it would in my view be the most offensive both to the privacy interests that we heard about earlier today and to more democratic aspects. The representative Syversen asks me about this with central funding. The government has stated that we want such funding. But the question of how much money it will cost, and how this is to be balanced against other budget lines, and it is well-known to the Seven, are things we have to take into overall budgetary processes – I understand. So I believe that the representative Elisabeth Aspacer has a very good point in her post when she angles it all to the question of the functionality of sampling. I believe that in addition to the borderline, which the representative Skei Grande was concerned about, the question is how to get this device to handle all the tests and the quality of the test analyses, the second important, major debate in this area. The representative, the Bjørnface, was about the question of how we can ensure evidence as best we could. It is the police who are to ensure the evidence, but we need to increase efforts in relation to other actors for, among other things. to ensure evidence of morality, in criminal matters. And there are important elements to help ensure evidence, precisely in the case of rape and previous intervention of aid lawyers. There is also something we need to include in the debate to solve more crime. Then I record again that the representative Ellingsen every time we debate criminal policy, refers to the fact that we have been high on the field in opposition. Yes, I agree. The Labour Party has wanted to be high on the ground in relation to the fight against crime, and that's exactly why we also want to be high on the track when we sit with government power. That's why we're presenting 100 new accommodations already this year. That's why we're presenting $90 million. New, fresh dollars to the police for which they can detect more crime, and that is why there is a lot of pressure on us to get back to Stortinget quickly with a proposition to expand the use of DNA registration.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-16.ana.ud1605e1448	As a result, the interpellation debate is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-16.ana.ud1605e1459	Then the Storting is ready to vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-16.ana.ud1605e1467	Five proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Ulf Erik Knudsen on behalf of the Progress Party and Right-wing Proposal No. 2-5, by Ulf Erik Knudsen on behalf of the Progress Party The proposal No will first be voted on. 2 – 5, from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-16.ana.ud1605e1512	There will be so much talk about proposal No. 1, from the Progress Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to file a case for the Storting with a view to embellishing the target law’s requirement for individual workers to master both objectives.’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-16.ana.ud1605e1542	A vote will be taken on the proposal by Mr Ulf Erik Knudsen on behalf of the Progress Party submitted by Mr Odelstingen's meeting on 9 March 2006: ‘The Government asks the Government to promote its own case of automatic shared care and responsibility in line with the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child’.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-16.ana.ud1605e1561	A vote will be taken on the proposal by Mr Ulf Erik Knudsen on behalf of the Progress Party submitted by Mr Odelstingen's meeting on 9 March 2006: ‘The decision asks the Government, during 2007, to investigate and present concrete measures against cohabitation. Such sabotage should have implications for the distribution of children.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-16.ana.ud1605e1580	A vote will be taken on the proposal by Mr Ulf Erik Knudsen on behalf of the Progress Party submitted by Mr Odelstingen's meeting on 9 March 2006: ‘The Government asks the Government to carry out a review of the mediation apparatus with a particular focus on quality and methodology — while at the same time monitoring the results of the mediations — with a focus on possible bias.’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-16.ana.ud1605e1599	A vote will be taken on the proposal by Mr Ulf Erik Knudsen on behalf of the Progress Party submitted by Mr Odelstingen's meeting on 9 March 2006: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that research and competence building are carried out by professionals in the field of parental anti-discrimination.’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-16.ana.ud1605e1618	A vote will be taken on the proposal by Mr Ulf Erik Knudsen on behalf of the Progress Party submitted by Mr Odelstingen's meeting on 9 March 2006: ‘The ruling asks the Government to assess whether the cheap substitute scheme is to be extended to convicted fathers.’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-16.ana.ud1605e1652	During the debate, Kari Lise Holmberg has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal has been transformed into a transmission proposal and sounds altered: ‘It is recommended that the Government submit to the Storting a case clarifying, clarifying and improving the legislation regarding the collection, use and storage of data, including e-mails.’ The President proposes that the proposal be sent to the Government without a vote of the facts – and considers that to be the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-16.ana.ud1605e1703	In Case No. 11 introduces no voting theme.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-16.ana.ud1605e1722	The President proposed that referral No. 155 will be sent to the Family and Culture Committee, which will present its draft position to the Business Committee before the suspension is issued. Lars Peder Breck has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-16.ana.ud1605e1727	It has been raised beyond any doubt that this matter concerns the food law and will then be dealt with by the nutrition committee in accordance with the legislation we know. So we're a little surprised that the presidency is presenting this proposal. This was taken up at the meeting on 14 March, when it was said that the Committee would have the opportunity to express its views.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-16.ana.ud1605e1732	I expect the Presidency has made an assessment of this. That is what was said at the conference on 14 March, since it was unsavory. I see this as a clear consumer issue and that, according to Section 12 of the Rules of Procedure, it will then go to the family and cultural committee. But I expect the President to be able to elaborate on what was the conclusion of the Presidency, and the recommendation from there.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-16.ana.ud1605e1739	The president records that there is a struggle for work, and that may be understandable. The President is not a member of the Presidency, but the President of the Lamentations, Inge Wohnning, may be able to elaborate on that question – why is there such a struggle for work? [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-16.ana.ud1605e1742	There are things that indicate that there is a certain underemployment problem going on. The Presidency has discussed this quite thoroughly and unanimously reached the position on the table, after weighing the considerations expressed on Tuesday at the end of the Grand Summit. I think it's a Salomon decision. Otherwise, all the recommendations dealt with in minutes are the Presidency's recommendations.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-16.ana.ud1605e1751	Then the president asks if the leader of the Trade Committee would like to make an alternative proposal for what is the president's proposal. - It's clearly not. That's when the record case becomes no. 155 sent to the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, which submits its draft opinion to the Economic and Social Committee for a preliminary ruling. Further referenced:
