ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-23-2.ana.ud2364e31	Ensuring people a safe everyday life will always be the basis for police work, regardless of social change. What's changing is how the police are going to cope with the challenges that today's and the future society will bring, in order to ensure a safe everyday life. When I grew up, we were told to a large extent that if we were not kind, the police would come and get us. This probably had a preventative effect, but are we going to follow law and order because of fear or because of respect? On some police cars here in Oslo it says: We are here – for a safer everyday life. The signal effect of fronting the police as a protector and not as a detainee is of great importance to people's confidence in the police. Another important element that creates trust is the local anchoring of the Norwegian police force. It is therefore gratifying that the Justice Committee asks the Ministry to investigate the impact of the Hammerfest model. Police and county officials’ seats play an active role in the local environment, which is also important to combat violence and profit crime and to be able to take preventive action. At the same time, police and civil servants’ seats need to prepare for exceptional situations and for a more international and organised crime scene. We have seen a good picture of this in connection with the police's efforts in the NOKAS case. It is important that the police have a crew that is proportionate to their duties. Therefore, the Left calls for an overall assessment of the need for long-term access to personnel following an evaluation of phase 2 of the police reform in 2007. This is in order to ensure adequate staffing in the future to meet the challenges we face. Some types of crime, particularly serious and socially harmful, are becoming increasingly widespread. The left considers it important to formalise, systematise and analyse the knowledge the police currently hold about organised crime. Research efforts in this area must be strengthened both in the form of basic research and applied research. The use of new technologies and the necessary reorganisation may contribute to shifting time and resources in the police to routine office tasks for outbound service. Such out-of-court service must also be stimulated on a pay basis. Police must have the resources to investigate everyday crime and minor crimes, so that the confidence in the police is not weakened. In order for the police to cope with the emerging challenges, cooperation between agencies is important. The previous government put a lot of emphasis on this in the big message. If society is to be able to settle youth crime and cut these young people off from a future criminal career, this must be done through cooperation between child protection, schoolwork, parents and community voluntary organisations. The youth's own participation should be central. When you know that over 60 pst. Of all prisoners in Norwegian prisons, problem drug use is said to have to cooperate. The same applies to crimes committed by persons suffering from mental illness and combating financial crime. The left will strengthen the victim's rights and place throughout the criminal proceedings. The left considers that there is no general, obvious link between stricter penalties and less criminal offences. Criminal law must provide the public and society with effective protection, especially against those who commit serious or widespread crime. It is important to respond strictly to those who commit serious crime. The main line must be to continue humane and flexible criminal prosecution and enforcement. Police shall focus on the exercise of powers and other core tasks. We therefore agree with the Right and the Advance Party that the police can be exempted from tasks that can be carried out by others. The left also subscribes to the Right and the Advance Party's remark to maintain and strengthen the police reserve, and we will support the proposals of the Christian People's Party, which have been put forward today. I take up the Left's proposal, which is distributed in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-23-2.ana.ud2364e59	The representative André N. Skelstad has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-23-2.ana.ud2364e62	The police role message that Stortinget is dealing with today is created by the previous government. It has been above a collapse decision and is now being treated by a new expansion. It deserves a message to address as important and key issues in the fight against crime as a police report. It is healthy that we can have a discussion in two different governments about the content of the police role message and the content of the police role. It's also healthy with the big and broad consensus we see forming behind the Storting's opinion of the police role. It's a pleasure to see. There are two questions that arise in relation to the communication: firstly, what is the role of the police today and in the future? And, as we evaluate the Norwegian police, do they fill this role? As several speakers have pointed out earlier today, it is a demanding role to be described. We want a close police force responsible for global crime. At the same time, we want a general police force responsible for specialised crime. When analysing police activity in the country of Norway, the conclusion must be that the police play a very important role. We can see that, among other things. that crime is not just a growing size; we look at more crime areas over the last few years, and there are also some geographical variations, that it has actually also been a decline in relation to some types of crime, which we have to take along as joyous sizes. We see that the police in Norway have done an incredible job in terms of finishing old things, overtime. We see that the proceedings of the Norwegian police are on their way down. It's almost halved over the last ten years. We also see that it is not completely black in relation to the question of what kind of equipment and crewing Norwegian police actually have today. There has been an investment in cars in the current year and last year of nearly a quarter of a billion kroner, and in 2005 it was invested in safety equipment for 25 million. kr. The weapons are now ready to have their legitimate replacement. I mention this, because there is a tendency to describe the police's activities in the media, that what goes wrong is what forms the basis for the description. It can often give a slightly distorted approach to a debate about whether the police actually play their part. If we do a sweep around the country, we see that the Norwegian police in the new roles that are emerging, and with the new challenges that lie in the crime scene, have taken a good step on the way to entering into and discovering more of the crime that we perceive to be serious. In Oslo, the police are doing very good work in relation to the prevention of child and youth work under the direction of other organisations, under the direction of other public agencies, and we see quite obvious results. In Trondheim, we see that the police are doing a great job of revealing some of the most difficult issues related to trafficking in human beings – trafficking. There you have gone in and taken the very behinders, as we want it when the Stortinge treats criminal regulations about this. In Kristiansand we see a police officer who is very awake and rising in relation to investigating violence against children in close relations. These are very difficult and challenging issues, but they've really organized themselves there, so you get into a positive position in relation to such difficult things. We see a NOKAS investigation that has actually produced results by having attacked and convicted people, but not legally. We also see that the type of investigation has an effect in relation to the type of crime that is just covered by that case. We have a Money Laundering Unit in Ecocrim that has been providing tools in recent years, both in the form of technical equipment and in the form of new legislation and new mechanisms for reporting suspicious transactions. We now see results when Ecokrim has become somewhat more upgraded during the year and is ready to reveal, among other things. whitewashing. Several have also mentioned that if you move beyond the borders of the country, you will see Norwegian police officers and women doing an incredibly good job, for example. Their efforts in Afghanistan and elsewhere, where new democracies are taught peace and order and how to create less crime. Since this agenda is often marked by the negative, I need on an occasion like this to give praise to the many thousands of police officers and women we have around in the whole country. When we go into a police role debate, we must know to value the efforts made, both in the police districts and in the police department in the police department. This is one of the reasons why we actually have a situation where the police in Norway are the closest to the confidence barometers. In fact, the Norwegian police have great legitimacy and great confidence. This is something they will also need in the future, especially in relation to the challenges now facing the police. That is what forms the very basis for the police role. I'm not going to broadly address all the challenges, but I want to mention three examples of challenges that create a need for a sustained discussion around the police role. First of all, I would like to mention the international organised crime. There is a clear need for new interventions both in relation to methods and in relation to the traditional conduct of police investigation. There is also a need for a whole new approach to international cooperation in Europol, Eurojust, Interpol and other international organisations, but also for thinking about where to go in the future to create more committed police work. Of course, it requires more competence, and it also requires more resources. The second challenge I particularly want to mention is trafficking-stricken women and children coming here to the country, and the problems they face. We see a totally peculiar crime that is much more difficult to get to the bottom of than what we traditionally experience when we face criminal acts. In Trondheim, it has been shown that it is absolutely possible to enter into this if you use resources and the methods available. The third challenge I would like to mention, I mention on the basis of the fact that we have just received the Committee's attitude on the table. We will have a whole new debate on the role of the police in relation to the offended. There have been several inside, but there are many ways of meeting those affected by criminal acts, in a completely different way. In the government's view, this requires a police role that has a clearer delineation than before in relation to what is actually not the task of the police – such as psychiatry, a good deal of administrative tasks, or transport tasks that some have been involved in – so that we actually get to cultivate the police in our efforts. It also requires better prevention, not only from the police but also from other actors in society. We won't be able to repair ourselves out of all types of crime, and it's in the government's opinion about anything more than to wind taxi cows in Oslo late night hours. This also requires that we meet these new challenges, a locally anchored police force with legitimacy and confidence in the population, and continue with civil tasks that create a local anchoring and local connection. It requires good interaction with local authorities. We welcome the establishment of police councils where appropriate. An active approach to own organisation and efficiency is required. That is why I welcome the debate and also the Committee's comments on organisation, which allow for the adjustment of the local structure, which we are going to use with caution, in order to ensure, inter alia, that. recruitment and a local and effective police force. This is also the background to the fact that the Government will continue to work to look at the possibilities for co-location with local service offices, which I am pleased to see that an overall committee ends up about. The new challenges that have been pointed out, and the new police role that we are all engaged in should be as effective as possible, require us to think wider than just resources for the police. Increased police force will depend, as I said, on better prevention. It will depend on better equipment. It'll depend on better skills. It'll depend on the manning. It will depend on us now sketching new methods for the future. The government is working on questions such as: on the extension of the DNA register, which I see as a very important method extension. It requires that we have the whole chain of criminal law with us when we're going to think police force. The fact that we get rid of the reconciliation queue and put custody places and settlements at our disposal is crucial to getting a strong police force. It's pointless to discover more crime if we can't react quickly. It is a strength with such consistency on the part of Stortinget in this important matter. I am pleased with this debate and take the recordings with me. Of course, the recordings that have come from the committee will be taken with us. I would now like to signal that the Government welcomes the proposal made by the Left on the human resources needs of the Norwegian police. It's a job we're ready to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-23-2.ana.ud2364e98	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-23-2.ana.ud2364e101	I thank the Council of State for the presentation. I want to challenge him in relation to two issues. The first is about the State Council as the responsible State Council feels that he delivers in full according to the first sentence of the Police Act § 1, which reads as follows: «Member States shall provide the police service that society needs.» Or is it, in fact, that society has to accept what the state sees for advice from police services? The second thing I could imagine hearing the Council's point of view is alcohol and alcohol taxes. The government has an incredible belief that the charging system is the key to success. If you look at the figures from last year, it is a fact that Finland had an increase in turnover on its wine monopoly of 0.5 pst., while in Norway we had 4.9 pst. increase. Is it, then, from the Council's point of view, that the tax regime is the only gratifying thing to achieve success?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-23-2.ana.ud2364e115	I should have had longer time than one minute to respond to this. The intentions of the Police Act in Section 1 are a good tab to follow. The background to the government's decision to strengthen the police budgets in addition to the Bondevik government's budget when it joined was that we felt there was a need for more resources for the Norwegian police beyond the level that the Progress Party also contributed to in previous budget rounds. As I said in my main post, I believe that increased police force is obviously dependent on more than just resources, including the other relationship that Ellingsen's representative took up, that we can pursue a restrictive drug policy. It is quite obvious that if we were to put ourselves on the line of the Advance Party in the field of alcohol policy, with the reduction of alcohol taxes proposed, this would mean a significant increase in violence-related problems. I'm glad that all the other parties in Stortinget realize that. With regard to Finland, the example is that when the tax was significantly reduced there, there was a dramatic increase in the crime of violence. This is what we want to see for the citizens of Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-23-2.ana.ud2364e126	We are in a city where, unfortunately, the development of crime has some more serious features than we otherwise experience in Norway. We have repeat crime that involves ever younger people. We have more and more organized beggaring, and we have the human trade, which we must say seems very systemically. My question to the Council of State is: What will the Minister of Justice do specifically to improve the capacity of the Oslo Police to address this issue? The second thing I want the Council of State's comment on is the proposal of the City Council on access to police regulations to expel particularly aggressive beggars or prostitutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-23-2.ana.ud2364e133	The first thing I want to say is that we thought it was necessary to increase the subsidy to the Norwegian police, also to the Oslo police district, not cut, as the questioner's party did at the last round of budget. We believe that there is a little dangerous way to strengthen the fight against crime in Oslo. With regard to the rules that have been dealt with quite carefully in Stortinget, at least in relation to the issue of begging, it is my opinion that we have jurisdictions in the police law and in other laws, including those relating to begging. in the criminal law, which may affect the behaviour referred to by the applicant. But it is also the case that the Municipality of Oslo has new police regulations in preparation. We have signaled to the Municipality of Oslo that we want to help get a well-functioning local code in relation to the problems you see here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-23-2.ana.ud2364e140	The Minister of Justice had three main challenges that he thought the police were facing, as he mentioned in his speech. The first was the methodology. Then my question is: does the Minister of Justice indicate that the Government is aiming to promote for the Stortingen an extended access for the police to use different methods in relation to today's situation? Secondly, I believe that the Minister of Justice and the Christian People's Party agree that prevention work is important. If the police are also to ensure that good prevention is carried out, this may be reflected by the department’s measurement indicators. How does the Minister of Justice view such an opportunity?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-23-2.ana.ud2364e147	With regard to the question of the examples I mentioned, where I came up with the methodology, I'm already going to signal that, in terms of the slightly more untraditional methods that the police currently have, the main challenge with these is, in the government's opinion, that they are actually being used, that you have enough resources to use the methods that have already been approved. In particular, space listening, telephone listening, etc. But the concept of methods can be so often. Now, when we want to give the police an extended opportunity to use DNA records and expand the basis for registration, there's a new kind of methodology, so there's no doubt that the government will come to Stortinget with it in a short time. I would also like to say in the context of the methodology that protecting sources in relation to what is now revealed in the methods will also be crucial for us. We're working on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-23-2.ana.ud2364e155	We can read in the news today that the lack of money in the police is so great that up to 350 jobs are available around the country. In particular, this state council's home state, Hedmark. The government and the state council have set great goals and talk a lot about increasing focus on fighting crime, which is not possible with today's appropriations. Will the Government and the Council of State take this seriously and follow up with more funds to the police, so that we can occupy the positions available around the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-23-2.ana.ud2364e164	I can't promise more than what we're already doing in the current year. In the additional proposition last year, we chose to strengthen the Norwegian police in addition to the Bondevik government's proposals. We have also, in connection with the NOKAS case, put more money on the table of the Norwegian police in the revised national budget, so that the effort has been significantly strengthened. So I have to say that the factual basis that the replicator now uses, I know well where it comes from. It's from the Police Union, where it's said it's never been worse than this year. That's a good sign that money doesn't work, because we're actually increasing the police budgets. But the majority of the vacancies are not available because of lack of money, but because they are actually about to be filled. So I think we have to read these numbers with a certain shade.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-23-2.ana.ud2364e171	I would first like to thank the Council of State for supporting the Left's proposal. I would have liked to hear a little more about how the Council of State sees indiscriminate cooperation in order to strengthen the crime prevention work on children and young people.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-23-2.ana.ud2364e178	It is beyond doubt that the Government believes that one of the most important prevention measures we can have is to intensify that cooperation. That is why both the Government and the Committee today choose to point to a new instrument to merge cross-border cooperation, namely the Local Police Council. There is also reason to say that an important challenge to the development of the police role is precisely to enable both the police station chief and the loner to be a local security player, and that perhaps the political bodies also take justice policy issues seriously locally. That's where a lot of the possibilities lie, and the government's bet on, among other things. urban economy, we believe, should help to improve their ability to do preventive work in relation to young people.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-23-2.ana.ud2364e183	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-23-2.ana.ud2364e186	For approx. two weeks ago, the Progress Party and I were accused of not talking about prevention. Some in this room went so far as to say that when they heard an article from the Progress Party, our solution was weapons. If there is any party to which the Progress Party is engaged, it is prevention. Prevention and security of individuals are best ensured through good family relationships and the safe growth environment. Targeted efforts among children and young people who have started to commit crime are important — meeting responses that prevent them from continuing to commit crime. Children and young people are investing in the future. Prevention starts at home. But it might also start at the health center. Who is the closest, if not the health sister, to see the problems when children come to control? She can contribute with follow-up and help at home. Integration is also important. One study shows that 93 pst. Immigrants want to be well integrated, but they also say that they have to learn Norwegian, and they have to respect Norwegian laws. Often, it is mother in the immigrant community that it is important to get in touch with and get in touch with her. It is important that the police are visible and accessible in the community. It also increases the security of the community. Police shall counteract criminal developments among children and young people. Police must not forget how important it is that, apparently, less everyday crime is investigated and clarified. A lot of people are starting their criminal career with everyday crime. Many people also start with everyday criminality to fit in with gangs. How easy it is not to continue if they do not get a response, get punishment and follow-up. We know that this requires resources, and it needs to be given priority. The police have to get the tools they need to follow this up. In the last period, the Progress Party promoted proposals for a police officer in each municipality, without any support. That's why it's nice to see today that the majority now comes after. The establishment of binding cooperation between the police and individual municipalities is important. It's great to see that a joint committee is in favour of setting up a police council. There are a lot of municipalities, but not enough municipalities, which have a great result to show by introducing the SLT model. The establishment of a Police Council together with SLT cooperation is a very important part of prevention. It involves very many parts of the population and the community that the municipality cooperates with the police on local crime prevention measures. Maybe the police will have a fixed person responsible for their school. Contact meetings between police, child protection, outreach service and school, working together across the professions and involving the police in cooperation with central municipal agencies and not least different private and voluntary actors in the municipality are important for prevention. Even though we are now gathered about a police council and the SLT, it is also important for close police. Therefore, in its comments, the Progress Party has focused on near-police. Nothing is more preventive than visible and decentralised police. It's a very bad thing that the political majority can't afford to see the advice to finance a near-police. The Progress Party believes that one can defend the costs of a near-police police force. The police have a much more intimate knowledge of the local population. They have a good overview of the different environments, they can target interventions against risk groups, and they can also help people on their way to the slope. A neighbourhood police force will be mind-building and effective in preventing crime. Now I hope that those who believe that the Progress Party is not talking about prevention have changed their mind. Prevention must be the main focus of the police. It has to be recognised to work on police internal prevention. It is important for both society and the potential victim to avoid criminal acts. A visible, effective police force with rapid and correct criminal responses is acting as a prevention tool. It's easy for us big-time politicians to stand here and talk about prevention, but it's important to put criminal policy and prevention in the focus of our local politicians across the country. They're the ones who know the local environments in their municipality. Then we who sit here on the Storting, follow up where resources are needed.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-23-2.ana.ud2364e205	In the section of the Soria Moria Declaration on Criminal Policy, the first bullet points are about prevention. Of course, it's set first because we think it's most important. In fact, we believe that prevention is better than repair. For every criminal act we can prevent, we save people from becoming victims. In addition, we avoid the cost of both economic and human researching, punishing and reintegrating a criminal. The most important thing we can do to prevent crime is to continue building up our welfare society. This can be explained by the fact that those with one or more living conditions problems are over-represented in crime statistics. But of course this is not enough. We have to work preventively at many levels. It is precautionary if we are able to better punish, so that several convictions are able to stop their criminal racetrack. It is preventive if the penalties we measure are strict enough to act as a preventative measure, while they come within a reasonable time after a criminal offence has been committed. It is prevention if we manage to rehabilitate more people who are struggling with drugs or have mental problems, and it is prevention if the measures taken by child protection are so good that the youth does not start or continue a criminal career. The reason I have this suggestion is that I want to remind you that the police cannot prevent crime alone. At the same time, we recognise in this communication that proactive police work should be more focused. In my opinion, the police have so far focused on investigating and prosecuting criminal acts already committed, and it is largely thanks to us politicians that it has become that way. In my opinion, the police have been overly measured in relation to this. The focus on processing time and the percentage of information has not exactly stimulated the police to work preventively. This problem is addressed in the message now. The majority say that we want to develop new measurement parameters, which also measure the prevention and effectiveness of it. Another important thing the Storting is doing today is pointing to the possibilities that the police council has. The Police Council case is originally a proposal from the Police Joint Union and a further development of the good SLT cooperation built up in over 150 municipalities. What is important in this context is that this is anchored at the top level both in the police and in the municipality. It is absolutely necessary to have action and impact. The causes of crime are many and complex, and must be tackled with broad efforts by both public and private actors, and both local and national. The police are neither able nor competent to combat crime alone, and in many cases other actors are well placed to help solve the problem. I think one of the most important things about the police council is that we can use the resources we have, more focused. A broader cross-sectoral interaction will benefit everyone. Let me take an example of that. Hedmark police districts looked at the resource use they had in relation to psychiatry from 1 January to 1 November 2005. They have estimated that this district alone uses between six and eight years' worth of work. Much of this may seem to be the proper use of police resources, but, as they themselves point out, they do not initially have training or responsibility to handle this type of task, which is the responsibility of the health service. I believe that a much closer dialogue between police and other actors to make resource use more targeted will bring great benefits. In addition to this, we also say that we want to amend the Planning and Building Act, so that crime prevention measures and the considerations that lie there are to be taken into account in municipal planning. I would also like to say a little bit about the challenges we face when it comes to recruitment. First, I would like to point out the Committee's concerns regarding the candidate mass of the Police College. Last year there were 2,265 applicants, but only 389 were qualified. This figure is too low, and we have to make an effort to get more qualified applicants. What's pleasing about these numbers is that the proportion of women is increasing. Per today is 36 pst. by the students at the Police College women. What's the big lack of police high school today is students with a multicultural background. A targeted effort needs to be put in place here. And we might also have to change some of the recording criteria. Very well known, many of the multicultural applicants have strangled the recording due to swim requirements. Maybe we can simplify this requirement if it can lead to more students with a multicultural background. We are also facing a challenge in recruiting districts. Here we have to think about new things. As a local politician, I have personally faced this challenge many times. One of the things that has been successful in my district when it comes to recruitment is that we have established local grant schemes that can stimulate local recruitment. There are few — if any — agencies that have one or two degrees wide and complex task voltages like the police. In addition, the media's searchlights are on every day. I believe that this message will help the police to maintain their high trust in the population, while at the same time getting a police force to interact more closely with other actors.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-23-2.ana.ud2364e228	I think it has been a good debate, I think it has been a neat debate, and I think that the focus has essentially gone in the direction it should. Nevertheless, there has also been a debate in this area on drugs and drug problems and the attitude towards drugs. That's all right, because that's part of the society we're all part of. It is then tempting to refer to those who attack the Progress Party for our attitudes and our morals in terms of intoxication, and to, for example. a proposal that was made in this room in the autumn of 2004, reducing the age limit from 20 years, as was previously the case, to 18 years for premixed alcoholic beverages. It was a unanimous staging – the Workers' Party did it, SV did it, all the parties did this. So that's right. But when the Progress Party has a different drug policy, it is immoral. So it's interesting to see that our current finance minister says that now we're going to look at the tax-free quotas. It's possible that it's immoral if we suggest it, but it's clearly right when it comes from government teams. Again, there are policies in practice, and perhaps morals in practice, or perhaps even immorality in practice – what do I know? This is a mental issue. When it comes from us, it's a problem, when it comes from the others, it's correct, and I'm recording that the representative Ballo has got it with him. I think that's good. Then I also have to say that I'm disappointed that you haven't talked more about economics here. There's a lot of people who've been involved in different things, but I'm actually missing that we're talking about economics. Although the Council of State says that funds alone are not a key, it is a fact that without the same means, this becomes difficult. I miss it, cf. the summary that the Progress Party has made at the back of the vote, where we say something about all the good wishes that the Committee has. I had actually wanted to be told a little about their visions for myself, from the government parties mainly then. So you don't. So the representative said the Bjørnflaten instead on my request if the Workers' Party has turned around or not, that they have not done so. In fact, whether the representative of the Bjørnface likes it or not, our current Minister of Justice voted against a proposal last spring on the establishment of the Police Council, promoted by the Progress Party. It may be that it was because the proposers were wrong, that it was not appropriate. But the fact is that it was done, by the Workers' Party, by SV, by everyone else. So they didn't want it. Then it came back in new packaging, and then it was perfect. But there may be policies in practice. Then the Council of State has also talked about increasing police force, and I think that makes sense, given that the challenges are in line within this department. Some of us remember that some time ago there was a replay on Swedish TV called the Third Wave, the Third Wave, where crime kind of floods us. It was a thoughtful scenario, but I think unfortunately it was based on real thinking and real issues. That means that our challenge is to be in front of the problems, so that we don't have to come afterwards and have to make solutions that we could have used before to prevent crime. In this way, I think the NOKAS case is an example. After the NOKAS case – I’m not going to say that the Storting woke up, but a bit on the way – it was suddenly about getting an armored vehicle, it was about coming in with new handguns, and so you took care of some things you discovered. But unfortunately, it is such that someone paid a high price for this, and I think that is unreasonable. I want us to be offensive, that we should be in the forefront as far as possible. There must then be an overall commitment to the justice sector. One of the challenges — and I have no problem taking inwards — is that different political leaders lead to different priorities. I guess that also means you get a little bit of an imbalance in this. But personally, I feel that the entire justice sector – be it the police, be it the court or the criminal services – still needs a lift. It's not until we come up and figure out the balance point between these, that we can kind of say that we're up-to-date. And until we do that, what we end up with is kind of a least common multiple. It's not good enough at my discretion, it's definitely not. In conclusion, there is no doubt that the Norwegian police are doing a very good job. But I still want to challenge the police at one point. One of the areas of justice that I have most respect and sense of is the rescue services. The rescue service does an amazing job, working together to find optimal, good solutions in relation to the tasks they will perform. Now the police are part of that device. But I also think they might want to see even more closely with the rescue services and the way they work, because they're doing a very good job, and they have a one-sided focus on solving the problem that's primarily ahead of them.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-23-2.ana.ud2364e249	Societies are constantly evolving, and this presents us with challenges in several areas. The police also face new challenges. I want to focus on organized crime, including trafficking in human beings. Organized criminal networks operating in several countries face major challenges in the fight against crime. It imposes new demands on the competence, resources and methods of the police so that they can be followed and preceded by the development of crime. This type of crime is often complex, and several measures need to be taken to combat it. In particular, drug crime, prostitution and financial crime driven by well-organised networks pose major challenges. This requires a high degree of specialisation and may weaken the basic principle that the policeman should be a generalist. The Committee points out that in recent years the police have been given access to new methods, precisely in order to meet this type of serious and often organised crime, and will assess the impact of these methods. Trafficking in human beings/trafficking is now greater than drug trafficking. I refer to Section 224 of the Criminal Code, which provides for penalties for trafficking in human beings. Trafficking in human beings is characterised by one person gaining control of another by various forms of violence, threats, coercion, mismanagement or abuse of vulnerable situations. This control is exercised in such a way that the person must carry out prostitution, forced labour, remove his organs or perform war services in a foreign country. So prostitution is an alternative way to get involved in human trafficking, and it's probably what we get most into in Norway. First of all, it is important that we set up resources to take the backers -- cynical backers. There are many sad people, children and adults, and especially women. Trafficking in human beings is a type of crime that is rarely reported. As with other types of crime not reported, the police's ability to fight will depend on information on the criminal situation and the criminal environment. Experience shows that women are often threatened with trafficking in human beings and therefore dare not provide information. This gives the police major challenges, as in a court case in most cases they depend on witnesses who stand up and tell their story. We have to facilitate that women dare to stand up and witness. It can be difficult, because there are often cultural differences. I am thinking about the experience these women have with public authorities in their home country, which are often corrupt, and perhaps the authorities have been involved in the fact that women have become victims of trafficking. This does not help to strengthen their belief that Norwegian police will help them. Furthermore, there are often language problems. It is therefore important that they receive help as early as possible in the process of an assistant lawyer or another suitable supporter. Witness protection is another tool, but it also poses major challenges in protecting these girls and their families in their home country. Maybe we can use more anonymous witnesses? But this must be weighed against the legal certainty of the defendant. Forty-five days' stay is the starting point for these women who testify. This may sound a little bit, but more of these women will be able to stay on a humanitarian basis. I'm very skeptical about criminalizing whores. Firstly, I would like to wait and see the report that the EU has ordered on Sweden, because I am not sure that it is as successful in Sweden as anyone wants it to be. There is no official evidence of the state of Sweden following the amendment of the law there in January 1999. I think we would get a prostitution market that is much more underground, and therefore will be difficult for the police to have some control over. And for the girls, it'll be a lot more unsafe. An argument to criminalize is the possible criminalisation of whores throughout the Nordic region. But can we not turn it around and say that Norway, which is a resourceful country, should take responsibility for helping women, who are most likely to be sent to another country where it is legal, and where the authorities do not have the will or resources to combat the problem of trafficking? Furthermore, as a politician, I do not want to make laws that prohibit everything we don't like, especially in an area where it becomes difficult to enforce the law, and where the penalties are fines that are passed and paid on the spot by those who are being taken. That's why I think it's important to put the resources in the police in other areas, to take the backers. The whole chain of criminal proceedings is important in this work, so the police must strengthen and intensify the work, investigate and execute, and the courts must punish the perpetrators. What are the measures taken by the police today? They can use the Halik paragraph, Section 202 of the Penal Code, and they can also use the police regulations, which provide the opportunity to reject in the event of disturbance of order and order, in addition to what I mentioned earlier in the article. We also need to be able to put a responsibility on those who buy the services and maintain a market. Attitude-making is important, but that won't be enough. The police role message that is being discussed today highlights the issues I have mentioned, and the Bondevik government presented an action plan against trafficking in human beings. The government of Stoltenberg follows up so that the plan is implemented.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-23-2.ana.ud2364e294	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-23-2.ana.ud2364e298	The representatives of Bjørnflaten and Magnusson Lydvo, like the rest of the committee within Amsterdam, will visit the Red Light District on a Committee trip to the autumn. In Oslo today, on the other hand, we don't have to be interested at all in order to be almost attacked by foreign prostitutes. Because we've developed a different kind of Red Light District, because it says about a prostitute at every single red light in the center. Accordors who have attended the same school, and play the one song they can, and rose-sellers who are far more aggressive than even the most resilient campaigner for the Workers' Party in a campaign, make it quite tiring for both tourists and others to travel in this city, and it gets worse and worse. The representative Bjørnflaten was challenged early in the debate to define what is being put into the concept of ‘more intensive efforts’ against this, and then the answer was: Use today’s legislation more actively. But the problem is that today's legislation is inadequate, and the home is too unclear. It's important and positive that you take care of the backers, we give full support to that. But it is also necessary to combine this with creating street-level unrest in relation to what happens every day in Oslo City. Here I find reason to repeat the question asked by the representative of Aspaker to the representative of Bjørnflaten, to define what you really intend to do, whether or not you will actually be involved in strengthening the basis of your residence, so that it becomes clear that you can reject, something the police and local authorities in Oslo believe that you do not have access to today. Otherwise, I would like to comment on something the representative Ellingsen was in, namely different grey zones. We're also concerned about that, but there's a grey zone in the proposals of the Progress Party in relation to the appointment of the head of the PST, and I could imagine asking myself what is the principle reason for putting this right of appointment here. Is it also the case that, in principle, one would go in to do the same in relation to the head of defence? It could be an interesting problem to clarify. Otherwise, the Council of State did not comment in its statement on the background that the government parties did not comment on the plans to establish a well-equipped and trained national police reserve at all. I therefore also allow myself to repeat the question from the representative Aspaker: What is the position of the government parties on this? Do you have any attitude, and what is the view? But then finally, in the midst of all this evil, I want to praise the Council of State to focus on what, after all, unites us in Norwegian justice policy. In the Right’s view, it is a very important value, and probably one of the reasons why Norway, after all, is one of the safest countries to live in, and probably still will be, if you adjust the course somewhat.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-23-2.ana.ud2364e311	The roles and tasks of the police are a major, serious topic, but very important for the individual’s meeting with the department. Closeness and trust in the police are duly addressed in the position, as are welfare issues. Creating security is a fundamental need. The role of the police in a local, decentralised police must be the generalist to be involved in both prevention and emergency situations. The left believes that the fight against violence must take place in both public and domestic spaces. In particular, the right to live a life without fear or experience of violence is important for human security. It is the responsibility of society to contribute to the prevention of violence, street violence, the workplace and in close relations. That's why the police and the county council is important for the individual there. In important areas, the police reform has unfortunately not led individuals to experience the same level of security in their district, because the police act has changed due to reorganisation or reduced resources. This is the experience of some individuals in Agder, and especially in the Lister region. For example, with half the crew in the Flekkefjord police department, individuals have to wait until Monday before they get help when they break into the weekend. Firefighters and passersby must conduct the traffic by car crash on the E39. Individuals do not understand difficult, beautiful reforms, reorganisations and specialisation in larger cities. The safety of the individual depends on the response, the proximity of the entity and the assistance in a current situation. The individual must have the security that the police are in place in his area with sufficient staff, and I am pleased that the Council of State supports the Left's proposal today. It's time to take the experiences of the individual seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-23-2.ana.ud2364e320	It is gratifying, but perhaps not surprising, that it is a relatively co-consensual committee to present this position to the decision-making process in the Stortinget – happy because it underlines the importance of a well-functioning and present police force, but also not surprising, as the setting up of the Stortinget mostly contains good words and opinions with few commitments to strengthen the police through better budgets, more staff or changed task-sharing that will release capacity to combat crime. The Committee, in its comments, has placed great emphasis on the important role of the local police in society, both to prevent and to meet the expectations or the sense of security that the public wants to be given. These priorities and intentions also formed the backbone of the implementation of the police reform, which included: the desire to release administrative resources for use in operational posts. It is therefore worth noting that the latest evaluation of police reform shows that many police officers are largely dissatisfied with the outcome of the reform. Signals I have received indicate that the requirements of the reform are not what has led to this internal mistrust, but that a large part of the challenges that have not been solved are justified by the lack of economic follow-up by the Storting, a follow-up that should have come in parallel with the implementation of the reform. Once again, after clarifying the overall view of the Big City on the importance of a good and effective close-up policy, let it be up to budgetary priorities to implement all these good intentions. Unfortunately, history shows that only the Progress Party is willing to give the police the budgetary promise that is needed. Our budget proposals, which would give a visible and effective neighbourhood police force, or would give the police the opportunity to take on the role of a central player in the prevention work, have repeatedly been voted down by the other parties. It's also a paradox that when all the parties are so focused on having a good neighbourhood police force, the other parties are not willing to support the proposal of the Progress Party to investigate a response time model for the police. This should not be difficult, if everyone in the future is going to be the police in the neighbourhood. Nevertheless, I assume that the parties will follow up their comments during the budgetary procedure for the autumn, and will be in favour of a serious strengthening of police budgets.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-23-2.ana.ud2364e331	I had intended to make a very reasonable contribution to the Advancement Party, but this last post made it somewhat more difficult. I'll try anyway. What beats one with the police report is that there is very much agreement between all parties on instruments. You recognize that there is a need for close-up police, and you recognize that there is a need to have resources to maintain a close-up police force. It is recognised that the crime scene has changed, and that new tools are needed to combat that crime, not least to equip the police to deal with Internet-based crime and to use the Internet as a means of detecting crime. Then I record that Solvency Horne in his post took hold of the criticism that has come against the Progress Party, in relation to prevention, and she spent almost all of her time stressing the importance of prevention. It's very positive. I remember that I was one of those who criticized the Advancement Party for not being concerned with prevention, among other things. in an interpellation in this Chamber on crime in Oslo. I record that Solvency Horne points out a number of fields in society where it is important to put preventive measures in place. However, the problem with the Progress Party is that there is such a difference in recognition of what works and what does not work in terms of prevention. One example is alcohol policy. I recorded that Ellingsen in his post used the figures for the Norwegian wine monopoly, which shows an increase in turnover in the wine monopoly, as an example of the fact that the Norwegian alcohol policy would not work as well as the Finnish. But that's a total misinterpretation of those numbers. Norwegian alcohol policy is intended to increase sales in the Vinmonopoly at the expense of other sales, among others. smuggling. If you manage to get that turnover up so that people use the polishing system, that's good. Then I record that Solvency Horne in his post said that severe punishments seem preventative. It is also one of the issues that is problematic in relation to the arguments of the Progress Party on prevention, because there is no scientific evidence for that kind of statement. That doesn't mean I'm being provoked by them. I appreciate that they're coming, and that's an opportunity to have a debate on it. I was in Chicago a few days ago. Only the city of Chicago with its severe punishments has ten times as many killings a year as Norway has. One of the things that makes sense is that what you think should work, and that the Progress Party often argues for working, doesn't do it. This is not an argument that people should not be put in prison and that they should not be given compensation. But this is a very strong argument for secondary prevention, namely to strengthen rehabilitation, to strengthen the measures, to strengthen humanitarian work against those who commit criminal acts. There's a lot of failure on the part of the Progress Party because it's like just being hard, taking someone hard, in itself, seems like crime prevention. Unfortunately, it does not, but it is a powerful force that the Progress Party is now beginning to discuss prevention, because then we can also start discussing its content.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-23-2.ana.ud2364e346	It is true, as has been said, that there has been a great deal of consensus, and that we have had a very good process in the committee when we have been working on the notification, but I still can't free myself from a little concern now at the end of the debate, and it is linked to whether the police today have the necessary opportunity to concentrate on their core tasks. I'm going to justify it with the following observations and considerations: when the committee was in Troms right after Christmas and met Truls Fyhn, he told me that he had at any time two policemen traveling to and from prisons to find vacant places, where there was free space to pick up. The same can be seen in Middle Hålogaland. When I was in the lake before the weekend, they could report that the situation there was exactly as difficult. So then we're left with a situation where the only ones who serve on this are the airline on On Island, which at all times has a number of seats occupied with people who should have been at home in their police chamber and either run preventive work or solved crime. With regard to the cooling plan recently submitted by the Council of State, I have made the reflection that there are probably not exactly custody sites and enclosed spaces that that plan contains the most – so to speak, none. So I'm essentially going to challenge the Great Mountain to reflect a little bit on how we're going to solve the situation that the police are in, because I guess none of us realize that there's a situation that can last over time. It braves the police for valuable resources that should have been used in a much more sensible way.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-23-2.ana.ud2364e355	I want to start by thanking the representative Anne Margrethe Larsen from Flekkefjord who brought the situation up to the police in the Lister region in West Agder. It was a little bit surprising. Actually, a wish would have been that the representative had been here in the last period, when we broke with the Justice Minister from the Left so that he would at all be listening to the arguments that came from Lister. When I listen to the current opposition parties in the debate, it has to be a relief not to sit in government. For the words they use, and what they say here in the hall, is something different than the line of responsibility they stood for a year ago. I am therefore pleased that, although we are in government, I can still say the same thing: something has to be done in the Lister region of West Agder. And then, after this election, we've actually been so lucky that we've got a Minister of Justice who understands the seriousness of the situation, who's taking the situation seriously, and who's made sure that West Agder has got more money to work to get a more effective neighbourhood police force. And when the Minister of Justice here says we're going to have a near-police with a global perspective, it's only nice to hear it compared to the debates I've had on the police. We can't have it so people can sag down par comets and take them with them at night because the police aren't coming. We cannot have it so that people who are raped on Friday night are told to call back on Monday morning. We cannot have it so that burglars can go from car to car without the police moving out. That is why – and I do not know what the background is for – the Flekkefjord police have been told to move out faster than they did under the previous government. I'm very happy that we've started this way. There is a lot that remains, but I am very pleased that we have a Minister of Justice who takes this situation seriously and who will make the police more effective than it has been. Without talking bad about the police, I think there is also a good deal in the organisation of the police that has led to the situation we have come into.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-23-2.ana.ud2364e366	I am very pleased with the challenge of the representative Elisabeth Aspaker, and I fully agree that with regard to the issue of settlements in Norway, the situation we are in is not a situation that can last over time, as the representative expressed it. The problem is that this situation has remained throughout the last period of government, at least from 2001 until now, where, in other words, there has been a pay queue of more than 2 000. Therefore, I should like to say that it is positive that the new government is actually taking action immediately, and, as the representative is also well known, already now, in the submission to the revised national budget, we want 250 new places. It's a significant rise. We're going to have a total of 250 new places this year. There is a need to initiate the construction of the New Halden prison, which will involve 251 sites to be completed in 2009 and as stated in this plan: nor can it be excluded that more people will be required to do so. So this is not a total absence of custody places, which perhaps eager police officers or others would want to use – rather on the contrary. It's just that many of these places are going to make us free closed prison capacity. First of all, we're getting more prison capacity through new construction. More than half of the places I have now mentioned are closed and can be used for maintenance. We're also getting rid of a lot of enclosed spaces. For example, I mention what is now being done at the Vestlandsheim outside the Bergen prison, which is a big project, and which will release enclosed spaces in areas where there is pressure. And it's just the assessments that the Government makes: when you make a plan, you want to put in place measures where there's the greatest pressure. It's our ambition that the settlement queue should approach zero when we get to the end of this magnification period. That's why we're also pushing, not just building new prison sites, but we're also pushing for a dramatic increase in the admission of prison officers at the high school. This is part of the police role debate, because it makes no sense for us to discuss a stronger and more role-conscious Norwegian police force as long as the more traditional criminal law instruments that a custody cell and a settlement cell are not available. I welcome this challenge, but I have to say that I am surprised that it comes from the Right, which has had such a rich opportunity to do something about this issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-23-2.ana.ud2364e375	The debate today has shown that there is a broad consensus in the United Kingdom about the important challenges facing the police and the direction in which the agency should develop further. As I said in my speech earlier today, the broad upsurge and broad consensus on important points are important to ensure the police trust and legitimacy. But the debate has also shown that there are clear policy lines, and I want to address some of these issues. Solvency Horne of the Advance Party had a post in which she spoke warmly for the Advance Party's preventive policy. I particularly noticed what she said about the safe families that are important to ensure prevention. But the problem is that very many people don't live in safe families. If we, for example, look at the Fafo report, we can see that very many of the prisoners in Norwegian prisons have been or should have been in contact with child protection, because they have had so many problems growing up that there should have been someone who caught them up. Then it's very problematic when the Progress Party is proposing to cut precisely the child protection. The Progress Party has proposed to cut down on integration measures and the Progress Party has proposed to cut down on culture. No one has mentioned cultural policy earlier in the debate today. There are many people who probably think that cultural policy has nothing to do with a debate on justice, but the best way to prevent it is perhaps just through good leisure opportunities for our kids. Does not the Progress Party see that this actually has consequences in terms of the increase in crime? I also noticed that the Progress Party claimed that we do not have a near police force. A few weeks ago, I visited Ibestad Municipality, which is a tiny small municipality on a tiny island in Troms, and met the local loner – who gave me a completely different impression from what the Progress Party has given here in today's debate. They also stated that they were very pleased with the efforts of the red-green majority, both economically and through the press release. With regard to the Right and the issues of prostitution, I still believe that the police can use the law much more actively than they do today. After all, the right hand pointed out the good experience from Trondheim. We have per cent. Today, a legislative proposal for consideration in the Committee which is just part of the issue of beggaring. Trafficking is criminalized, so here I believe that the police can make a stronger effort than they do, and there the committee is also unanimous. Then I'd like to say in the end that we are not going to support the proposals of the Christian People's Party. It's a well-meaning and good proposal, but the main challenge is that we need to get the two agencies, the police and the child protection, to cooperate. In many places today, we see that the babysitting guard is established in the police stations. It has very good effects. But the big challenge is to get the agencies, both there and in other areas, to cooperate.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-23-2.ana.ud2364e390	Elisabeth Aspaker has had the word twice and gets the word for a brief remark.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-23-2.ana.ud2364e393	It was the Minister of Justice's stunning that made me take the floor, and I have to say that I am stunned, too, about presenting a plan for the settlement of the settlement queue and one-sided rates in open spaces, when there are obviously closed spaces that are the capacity you need. Then I see it this way, and I read the plan in such a way that you've intended to relax quite considerably on the terms of compensation. It is proposed to release earlier, and one goes in a direction of criminal policy that the Right will not be aware of. Then I would like to tell the Council of State that we can discuss who has done what, but in the previous period it was of course the previous government that took the initiative and that started, the construction of the Halden prison, which might be the biggest contribution in terms of closed places, in the years that come. If this government had continued, of course, there had also been more prison sites in the current ageing period.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-23-2.ana.ud2364e400	It is a pleasure that my article here has created a little debate on prevention. It's true, as the representative of Bjørnflaten said, that I talked about safe homes being an important part of prevention. But I also mentioned the health centre. The Health Station is something that the Advance Party has been committed to, at least in the municipalities. Who is more important than a health sister, who can manage to see the problems that are in the homes where you don't have it so well, and can go in and help and take action against the individual home? Then I would like to point out the SLT cooperation that is in the individual municipalities, and I also talked about the involved voluntary teams and organisations in the municipalities. It is cultural policy, which is at least important for the Progress Party, this with the voluntary teams and organisations and the sports laws of the municipalities. So I'd like to welcome you to the majority, and that's the family violence project in Westfold. We are very proud that we were included in the 2005 budget agreement. But I now see that there is a majority who have come after here, and that also applies, as I mentioned, to the police council.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-23-2.ana.ud2364e412	I'll be brief. In fact, in relation to the Party of Advancement and, indirectly, the Right Criticism that comes from the chairperson of the Committee, about cuts in public budget lines, the Workers' Party, with the good help of SV, is doing everything they can to cut off the personal responsibilities that each individual has for himself, and not least for others. It creates a colder society, which makes us actually get a worse crime development than what we would otherwise have had. It has to be either that the committee leader doesn't understand the question, or doesn't want to understand the question, when we repeatedly ask what you're going to do with the front figures, who operate on the street level, among other things. Here in Oslo. I fully agree that you have to take the backers, and that's what the government gets to the point that you do. But we haven't yet been given an answer as to whether you want to tighten the foundation of the foundation that makes it possible to take the front figures, and combine it with hitting the backers hard. We have not yet received an answer to that in this debate. I was hoping we might get it. If necessary, we can send the question in writing on a later occasion.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-23-2.ana.ud2364e421	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2 [[See page 2347]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-23-2.ana.ud2364e437	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 2347]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-23-2.ana.ud2364e453	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fooding, see page 2348]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-23-2.ana.ud2364e469	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines after the intervention of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-23-2.ana.ud2364e478	In Document No: 8:46 there were seven different proposals to ensure that people with a minority background had the opportunity to participate in the labour market. In the vote, the Christian People's Party, which has the proposers, has re-examined three of the proposals. These proposals are not accepted, but it is quite obvious that the Christian People's Party is raising a very relevant issue. It is a fact that the availability of immigrants is much higher than that of the rest of the population. For some groups, the unemployment rate can be three times higher. It is also a fact that the labour market today is asking for labour and the job opportunities are present. We know that the shortage of labour will increase in the future. The possibilities will therefore be available to get a job. For minority groups, language and education are essential. We have on the one hand the individual's competence. On the other hand, we have business and the public, state and municipality, which must demand and be willing to open the doors to them with a foreign name. Proposals point out that the exclusion of groups in society from participation in society may contribute, inter alia, to: unrest and conflict. None of the parties disagree. All batches also underline that the main instrument for good integration is language, education and work. In the previous period, the Stortinget adopted an introductory arrangement for newly arrived refugees. Norwegian training rights and obligations were also adopted in the previous period. It is a unanimous committee that now, in a note, refers to the introduced introduction system and expresses the need for municipalities to have time to test it and to establish good practice. However, at some point a broad evaluation will be important. This also signals to the Council of State in its reply letter to the Committee. On another point, the Committee stands united. It is in the view that the current system for the recognition of foreign education is not well coordinated and does not work properly. This applies to both vocational and academic education and is an area for improvement. As rapporteur, I would like to say that the Committee agrees on the objectives, but not on the instruments. The Progress Party distanced itself from the other parties and believes that several of the proposals are likely to lead to increased racism and segregation. This is unquestionably in contrast with the other parties in the Committee, all of whom believe that there are both proper and appropriate instruments to facilitate the full participation of minority groups in Norwegian society. Not all newcomers are able to do it themselves. It is strange that the Progress Party does not understand that many of the refugees and immigrants from, for example, Africa or those who come from the rural areas of Pakistan comes from a completely different culture than the one we know. They come here, to a completely different society than they know. Some are illiterate; others may have minimal school backgrounds. It's naïve at best to think that these don't need the help of the big community. Good integration requires that we facilitate conditions so that it is possible to learn Norwegian, get work and be able to participate in Norwegian society. This has nothing to do with new forms of discrimination, as the Progress Party claims in its remark. As mentioned earlier, the Christian People's Party does not receive support for its proposals. It is not because the parties to the Government and the Right and the Left are opposed on all points, but because in their letter to the Committee, the Council of State provides detailed answers and indicates that action will be taken in line with what is proposed, either in the near future or in the near future. The majority of the Committee takes note of the fact that the Council of State will assess the impact of voluntary measures in the labour market together with the effect of the new Discrimination Act before deciding on any obligation of activity. Similar comments are made by the Council of State in all the areas mentioned. That's what the majority aligns with. At the end of the day, because here's a fast time, I just want to say that the Right Party, the Christian Party and the Left promote their own proposal in the matter. We believe it is necessary to extend adult training measures that provide competence to people with a minority background without formal competence. I am addressing that proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-23-2.ana.ud2364e506	The representative Kari Lise Holmberg has taken up the suggestion she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-23-2.ana.ud2364e509	I want to start my speech by giving tribute to the proposers for what is being promoted in the matter, and for the commitment shown to ensure that our new countrymen are given the opportunity to participate in the work. This is one of the most important issues of state council Bjarne Håkon Hanssen is working on, and the government will work for a tolerant, multicultural society and against racism. Everyone shall have the same rights and obligations, but also the possibilities. Access to the labour market is essential to counteract the development of a social sub-class. It is well documented that there is a lack of links with the labour market. Getting integrated people with a minority background in working life is also important for future generations’ relationship with just working life. With regard to the proposal on the obligation of activity under the Discrimination Act, the Government will strengthen cooperation with key actors, including the social organisations, in order to develop instruments to combat discrimination and to recruit more immigrants to positions in the private and public sectors. The obligation of activity will be assessed later if it appears that the voluntary measures are not working. In addition, measures such as wage subsidies, adult training and other training activities are being considered. There is an important work to be done with it in the ministry. In relation to the proposals for an anti-discrimination prize, I would like to mention that in December 2005, Bjarne Håkon Hanssen presented a diversity prize to the Post just to present the good examples of ethnic diversity in the workplace. I want to talk in particular about the recognition of foreign education. Bjarne Håkon Hanssen has in his time as Minister of Labour and Inclusion focused on action to get people into the labour market, and a working group in the Ministry of Knowledge has also been set up to look at how better and faster education can be accepted abroad. Several immigrants come to Norway with education and skills that are important for their own use and for society to participate in. It is therefore essential that it is both easier and faster to receive approved education in other countries. I look forward to the conclusions of the committee set up by the Ministry of Knowledge. I hope that this sample, which will assess the recognition and credit of higher education in Norway, will also make proposals for the possibility of proving their competence through theoretical and practical tests. It is unfortunate that people with university degrees from their home country should not be able to use the skills they possess. The basis for good integration is also mutual respect. There is a lot of talk about the respect for Norwegian society and for our laws and regulations, but on the other hand, it is important that they are also met with respect and that they can use their resources. This is too little, and that is why I am pleased that today's debate is paying attention. It is fundamental to man's well-being that it is recognized. The recognition of education is thus important for the self-esteem of immigrants and thus the experience of society in which they will find their place knows how to take care of them. The central statistical agency has also produced good positive figures in this way. We see that unemployment among immigrants goes down. The decline is greater than elsewhere in the population, and there is a sharpest decline among non-Western immigrants. The party's view that individuals themselves are responsible for integrating and getting into work, and that people do a service to bear if they are made dependent on good public schemes, should be commented on. On the one hand, the party is daily focused on the lack of integration of immigrants into Norwegian society, but on the other hand they will not be involved in measures to improve integration. This is a misunderstanding of immigration and integration policies. I will, if time permits, tempt me forward and compare the policies of the Advance Party in this area with 100 meters of sprint. You can imagine that Arild, who was born on Ytterøy in the North Tronde Team, starts off on the 100-meter mark, one born in Iran, on the 150-meter mark, and one born in Tanzania, on the 200-meter mark. Now I'm no athlete, but it's tempting to ask the president who he thinks would come first.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-23-2.ana.ud2364e530	It is quite right, as it is said here, that working life is an essential area for successful integration. It is one of the pillars of good integration in Norway. But at the same time, it may not be the way you try to make it, that everything is negative in relation to the experience that immigrants experience in the labour market – across the board. In conversations with immigrants, there are many perceptions of how to be met in relation to the Norwegian labour market. Many people with a migrant background experience that there are no closures at all when entering the labour market, while others are unfortunately able to tell that they have experienced it that way. I believe, basically, that the vast majority of Norwegian employers want to facilitate the recruitment of people with a minority background, who have the qualifications and competences, and who were supposed to be the person who would get a job oered, and actually choose to hire that person. But at the same time, I do not suggest that there are employers out there who may have wrong opinions, and who may not do enough in relation to the social responsibility that an employer actually has. I'm not undermining that fact. But I think that the employers who choose to act that way even undermine their own existence, because they do not choose to qualify those who are most suitable to complain about the job. We in the Progress Party will be the first to strike down on employers who are engaged in the kind of unfair treatment. But when that's said, I think you're exaggerating this issue, and you're sending a signal to many second-generation immigrants that it's very difficult to get into the Norwegian labour market. That signal is not good, because it does not encourage education and becoming part of what we think is very good – to be well integrated into Norwegian society. It may well be that you should not hide that there is what I choose to call cultural barriers out there – things you take with you from the country of origin, from the culture you come from, which necessarily does not facilitate the situation in the workplace, but actually makes it more difficult to participate in the world of work. Then you have a responsibility to do something about it. That's what the Progress Party has said and said in many contexts – and that's not what you're trying to make from the Workers' Party – that integration is a two-way process. Yes, we're going to facilitate integration, but at the same time it's ultimately the individual human being that needs to be integrated. Then it's actually about adapting to the society you choose to live in. But there's something here that just doesn't rhyme. I agree that we are facing a challenge in relation to the labour market. The statistics are not good. Unfortunately, we have high unemployment among immigrants. But if we look deeper, we see that there are very big differences between the different ethnic groups – very big differences – that may be explained by other things than that the labour market does not accept them with open arms. What is said here about the approval of education is important. Here's the committee. It is imperative that we recognise good education abroad. It's totally unacceptable that engineers come here with an education that is not accepted, and that has to go to the United States to get a job. There's a lot of examples of that, and it's completely unacceptable. Here we expect the government to do its job and arrange it as soon as possible. But what's not right is to start adding up to a system where you have to discriminate against people because of ethnicity. Because that's what you're really adding up to here. The proposal for wage subsidies from the Christian People's Party is, in fact, about the fact that one's ethnicity is crucial in terms of one's access to the labour market. You can't fight an injustice by committing another wrong. This is absolutely fundamental in the policy of the Progress Party. We do not accept discrimination on an ethnic basis. We're on it. In fact, we expect you to realize this, so that you don't get into a situation where you put something in the good service that will create big problems in the future. I am promoting the proposals of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-23-2.ana.ud2364e547	The representative Per-Willy Amundsen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-23-2.ana.ud2364e550	I would like to mention the last time the representative of the Progress Party said that there should be no discrimination on grounds of ethnicity. This is precisely what we are discussing today, which is the fact that we are being discriminated against because of ethnicity in the Norwegian labour market. The idea that Norwegian integration policy has failed completely, I do not share. I believe it is incorrect. It goes a lot better than many people like to make that. Such big changes take some time, but it seems we have a belief that if we just put people on the school bench one year, then the life they've had to now, gone, and they've learned everything about a new society. It's not like that. If we look at other nations that have had large immigration, we'll see that it hasn't worked that way. So it's better than rumor, but there's discrimination. I have two investigations in front of me now. One is from the MMI, which was presented a few weeks ago. It shows that there is serious discrimination against people with disabilities in Norwegian society. Business managers rather consider people who have pretty bad roller blades, than people in wheelchairs. Today, Proffice has produced a survey from 554 Norwegian enterprises, which unfortunately is a depressing reading of attitudes towards the immigrant population. Only one in 10 Norwegian business managers seems to have some point in respecting the provisions of the Labour Environment Act on anti-discrimination. Less than half support the measures taken by the authorities to prevent discrimination. 83 pst. believes that languages are important. We all think so, and that is understandable. However, four out of ten Norwegian workers seem to have no problem bypassing immigrants in the jobseeker queue. Two out of ten would have responded about the company they worked for, employing an immigrant. I think it's pretty discouraging, sail if I might not be so surprised that it's like that. That tells us, point 1, that we have a great attitude job ahead of us. And, point 2: It tells us that just what the Progress Party says we shouldn't do is happening today. People are discriminated against on an ethnic basis. Then we need to launch measures that can balance that discrimination. That's how we've been working in relation to equality for women. These are the same measures that, in the SV's view, we need to put in place in the case of the disabled, because they are severely discriminated against on the labour market. We also need to look at the employer’s policies in the state and in the municipalities. They're big public employers, calling people for an interview. They can, for example, decide that they should have a share of the population corresponding to the proportion of disabled persons or the proportion of immigrants, and a number of other measures, so as to ensure, in fact, that those with competence are given jobs. Many people talk about language as a problem, and I understand that. Then there are two things we need to be aware of. One is that there are people who have grown up in Norway, who speak Norwegian like me, who can code, can all the tame knowledge, have education, but they don't get a job. So it's a problem of discrimination that we can't talk ourselves out of saying that people have to learn Norwegian. The second is that if we actually think that people are going to learn Norwegian, then maybe that's the first thing we have to do for people who come here. We have to start it earlier than what we are doing today, because today people do not get to start learning Norwegian – at least if they are in an asylum procedure – until they have been in an asylum reception for quite some time. So to duty of activity, which has been discussed here: I would encourage the Government very strongly to look at it. Activity obligations are therefore a method used in enterprises to change behaviour and practices. I think there are few of us who have a non-discriminatory practice, and almost no one likes to admit that they have it. That's why we have to look at how we treat recruitment procedures, and how we put down the operation, so we become aware of what we're doing. I believe that part of this is not necessarily due to evil will, but that it is initiated unconscious processes that discriminate in itself. So finally, a lot of immigrants could have started their own business. I believe that we have done too little to facilitate this.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-23-2.ana.ud2364e574	A labour market with room for manoeuvre for all is an important objective. If some groups experience being excluded from the labour market, this may contribute to conflict. In fact, unemployment among people with a migrant background in Norway is more than three times as high as that of the population, although the most recent figures from the Statistical Centre on 19 May showed that there will be fewer unemployment among all immigrant groups. This difference has remained stable for a long time. If we look at some non-Western immigrant groups, the differences are even larger. This shows that action is necessary to create equal opportunities for work. An MMI survey shows that eight out of ten business leaders do not have a diversity objective by employing people with different ethnic backgrounds. This means that the Government must have an active policy to promote not only work but also inclusion in working life. It's done a lot of important in this area, but we need to take new and stronger steps to succeed better. The Christian People's Party has proposed various measures to ensure that people with a minority background can participate in the labour market. Action as an activity obligation for enterprises means that business will have to be active and have an offensive inclusion policy. Today, it is prohibited for employers to opt out of new employment for immigrants only because they are not ethnically Norwegian. The law is not enough, it turns out. Therefore, employers should be subject to the obligation of employment under the Discrimination Act. We know that the payroll scheme works and therefore proposes an extended payroll scheme for the employer. Persons qualified for work in Norway experience being excluded from the labour market. In fact, many people have a high level of education and a high level of competence. This qualified group should be able to offer employers a grant in the first year if the enterprise chooses to invest in them. We know from experience that the majority of those given an opportunity to show what they can get further work either in the same company or elsewhere as a result of recommendations from the site they first worked. I am pleased that the Council of State in its response to the Committee is open to consider this in the work of the paper on work, well-being and inclusion. The Council of State also underlined the Christian People's Party's point that we must all take responsibility for ensuring better recruitment of people with a migrant background, and that this is best achieved through targeted measures. Number shows that the state continues to recruit at the same rate. It can't be like that. As one of the proposers, I am pleased that a large majority in the Committee so strongly emphasises the importance of education and work in order to achieve successful integration. This focus must not be allowed. On some important suggestions, the Christian People's Party would go further. I would therefore like to address those proposals from the Christian People's Party which, in this round, did not become political reality. The Christian People's Party wanted the inclusion of immigrants in the labour market to be a new component of the IA Agreement, as we know that the main way of integration is through working life. Nor does the government suggest that municipal responsibility for the integration of refugees and immigrants is included in the minimum requirement of the new labour and welfare management. The municipalities are free to include this if they find it appropriate. The Christian People's Party believes that it is unfortunate that the Government is now adding to one integration work in the municipalities and another integration process in the NAV system. One important purpose of the NAV reform was and is that the individual user should receive a comprehensive offer at one and the same place. It is precisely this office that has to have the link to the labour market and that can assist in a good way. I am afraid that the consequence is that immigrants and refugees get a worse offer in the NAV offices than others, and that the integration work does not lead to immigrants coming to work and handling themselves. On 10 May, the head of the evening post pointed out that: ‘The Creatorship towards the stranger can only be overcome by practical, positive experience’. That's where we're now. Let people with a minority background get this experience and show what their resources are for our country.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-23-2.ana.ud2364e605	The representative Åse Gunhild Woie Duesund has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-23-2.ana.ud2364e609	Unemployment among immigrants in Norway is higher than in the rest of the population. The highest is the availability of immigrants who have come as refugees and asylum seekers. However, Norway is in a special position, with generally low unemployment and high demand for labour. This has given many immigrants, refugees and asylum seekers good access to the Norwegian labour market. On several occasions, the left has been called for to facilitate access to Norway for migrant workers. The enlargement of the EU has had such an impact. Among other things, LO states that they now have several thousand members from former Eastern bloc countries. This shows that access to Norway has become easier for some, and that we are dealing with conscious workers. The most demanding group for Norwegian labour is those who come as refugees and asylum seekers from war and disaster-affected areas. For some of these languages are a significant barrier, and for a few, writing is a new acquaintance. Providing equal opportunities for community participation is very important. This is precisely why last year the Stortinget adopted a number of measures to increase the opportunities for refugees and asylum seekers to be integrated both faster and better, inter alia. language and social training. The new NAV reform will also include actions specifically targeted at this group. The Left therefore considers it appropriate to await the implementation of a number of measures that are now in the process of being implemented in order to strengthen the labour market opportunities for immigrants. In two areas, the Left agrees with the Christian People's Party on measures that the Government must implement and that do not naturally follow the NAV reform or the introduction system. This concerns adult training activities and the recognition of foreign education. Adult training activities will relate in particular to immigrants who have a high level of real competence in certain areas but who do not have formal qualifications and whose path through the regular education system may not be fully adapted. Recognition of foreign education is today characterised by long waiting time, low transparency and lack of coordination with international standards. It is therefore necessary to do something about both capacity, transparency and standards.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-23-2.ana.ud2364e622	Let me start by saying that I too am very pleased with the debate we have today. I see that the integration debate is being lifted into the general public debate. I'm very happy about that, and I've tried to put great emphasis on contributing to it myself. I agree with all those who have so far said that the key to successful integration is a successful integration into working life. And that's why I agree with the Storting that focusing on working life is fundamental. My impression is that all the representatives in this room agree on the objective, namely that we need to get a higher participation in the labour market among immigrants. It's important that we think about the challenge there, but it's not impossible. In the first quarter of 2006, the figures show that we still have a decline in unemployment among immigrants. It's now under 9 p.m., but still the unemployment of immigrants is about three times as high as that of ethnic Northmen. It is very important that people who can and will work have a real opportunity to participate in the labour market. Facilitating increased participation in the labour market for immigrants is an essential part of the integration work and therefore – as I said – a task I give very high priority to. I have repeatedly stated that everyone must take responsibility for ensuring a better recruitment of people with a migrant background. For this reason, the Government cooperates with several key actors, including social organisations, to develop means of combating discrimination and recruiting more immigrants to positions in both the private and public sectors. In order to prevent discrimination, it is important to have legislation in place. I am therefore pleased that the Act on the Prohibition of Discrimination on the grounds of ethnicity, religion, etc., also known as the Discrimination Act, entered into force on 1 January this year and that the new Equality and Discrimination Ombudsman is now active. I will follow developments in this area closely and assess the experience with the Discrimination Act as it is now before we may consider possible changes in the law related to, for example. obligation of activity. I am very aware that when we – the three current government parties – were in opposition, we were in favour of a duty of activity, while the parties that were then in government position were opposed. We from the Government are very often challenged to be responsive to the opposition, despite our being in a majority. I believe that, among other things: must mean that we should not automatically take up all possible proposals on which we agreed in the three previous opposition parties in the previous period, and promote them when we now have a majority. For example, we have to. respect the adoption of the law currently adopted. At least we will have to follow the experience with it before we propose amendments. This may be an example of being responsive to the opposition. There is a need to stress that we are now engaged in intensive work ahead of the formal establishment of a new labour and welfare management, NAV, on 1 July 2006. In this context, I have repeatedly pointed out to Stortinget that in a separate big message about work, well-being and integration to come to the harvest, we are reviewing all the instruments. There will be a central assessment of more active instruments. We also plan to provide an action plan for integrating and integrating the immigrant population into the harvest, where one of the main focus areas will be participation in the labour market. And we're planning to start a thorough evaluation of the introduction system for newly arrived immigrants. The time is now beginning to mature for it, because the arrangement has been made to work for a period. The last thing I'm going to mention is, as I say in my letter to the Committee of 24 March, that there is already a selection under the Ministry of Knowledge to investigate and propose measures to improve today's system of recognition and crediting of higher education.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-23-2.ana.ud2364e645	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-23-2.ana.ud2364e648	It has been mentioned by several and pointed out in speeches here in the Chamber that the attitudes of the immigrant population in the general population are not necessarily the best. By introducing schemes that risk allocating ethnicities to people with a different ethnic background to the labour market, I am afraid that, by doing so, an increased negative attitude towards immigrants is actually being promoted to the immigrant population. Does not the Council of State see the problem of actually contributing to the opposite of what you want by introducing such schemes, increasing negative attitudes towards immigrants?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-23-2.ana.ud2364e658	No, no, no. I have to admit that I understand the reasoning in what Amundsen presents, but I disagree with the conclusion. I believe that in the labour market that we have, we now see very clearly that we have a demand for labour, a shortage of labour. Still, we have a lot of free hands. And what characterizes the free hands – to say it like that – is a lack of qualifications. They do not have the qualifications required by the job vacancies. That is why I am concerned that we have general tools to tackle those who are unemployed, to qualify them for work. Among those who are unemployed, much is from the immigrant population. So wage subsidies are not a scheme for immigrants, but for the unemployed, to qualify them for job vacancies, and among the unemployed there is an overrepresentation of immigrants.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-23-2.ana.ud2364e663	First, I want to thank you for the good feedback, both from the Council of State and from the members of the Municipal Committee. Several have indicated that it is important for immigrants with education and skills to use it in Norway. What action does the Council of State take to ensure that these persons are able to use their qualifications in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-23-2.ana.ud2364e670	I have to ask for an adequate answer on what we are now working on. I mean, as also the representative Woie Duesund said, it's very demanding for us both as politicians and everyone in this room, not least for me as the Council of State, to be out with raised indexes to the business community in Norway, when the state itself does not have better results to show than those we actually have. That is why I am now very concerned about taking action in the state – where we ourselves have direct responsibility and governance – with the aim that the state, which today can to some extent be called a sink, will be the opposite, an example, a precursor, a break, in the other integration work. So I want first of all to give priority to action against state activities.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-23-2.ana.ud2364e675	Several have not asked for the word for a line. Several have not asked for the floor either, and the debate on substance. So 5 is over. There will be a call to – and preparation for – voting. [[Fooding, see page 2348]] The President requests that those responsible for the preparation of the vote do so in a satisfactory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-23-2.ana.ud2364e687	The increase shall now be added to the case No. 1 to 5.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-23-2.ana.ud2364e695	The President will propose that the Minister for Development’s policy statement at the meeting of 16 May 2006 be annexed to the minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-23-2.ana.ud2364e705	Eight proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1-6, by Jan Arild Ellingsen, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 8 from the left. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-23-2.ana.ud2364e734	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 7, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Police Directorate to put in place a system of child protection consultants in all police districts.’ The Progress Party and the Right support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-23-2.ana.ud2364e751	The proposals are then put to the vote. 1–6, from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-23-2.ana.ud2364e800	President! I voted wrong. I voted in favour, but I should have voted against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-23-2.ana.ud2364e807	Then the vote will be 81 votes against the proposal and 23 votes in favour. The proposals have thus been rejected.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-23-2.ana.ud2364e897	Five proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Kari Lise Holmberg on behalf of the Right, Christian People's Party and Left Amendment No. 2 by Per-Willy Amundsen, on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 3-5, from Åse Gunhild Woie Duesund on behalf of the Christian People's Party First of all, there is the vote on the motions for resolutions. 3–5, from the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-23-2.ana.ud2364e939	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 1, from the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In addition to the introduction system, the Government is asking for proposals for adult training measures that provide competence to persons with a minority background without formal education.’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-23-2.ana.ud2364e954	Proposal No. 2, from the Progress Party, says: ‘Document No. 8:46 [[2005-2006]] This proposal will be replaced by the Committee's vote.
