ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-09-lower.ana.ud1952e56	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. It is also proposed that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-09-lower.ana.ud1952e65	The Housing Lease Committee was set up on 1 March 2001 as a three-year probationary mechanism for settling disputes between the lessor and tenant of a dwelling in Oslo. In the spring of 2003, the testing scheme was extended geographically to cover Akershus with effect from 1 March 2003. In the autumn of 2003, it was decided to extend the examination procedure for two years, until the end of 2005. In the 2006 government budget, the probationary period was further extended and is now running out in 2008. The Housing Lease Committee is an alternative to the Conciliation Council and the Court of Justice to settle disputes between the landlord and tenants of housing in Oslo and Akershus. And unlike the Conciliation Board, the Housing Lease Committee has the dispute resolution committee, which is lawyers with special knowledge of house rental law. Dispute resolutionaries in the Home Lease Committee also have special training and experience in mediation. The Red-Green Government already signalled during the 2006 budgetary procedure that the Houselord Committee should become a mandatory first instance instead of the Conciliation Council, where a Houselord Committee has been set up. We want this to help make better use of the sample's capacity while at the same time reducing the cost of the country per year. I'm sorry. We hope that the decision will lead to a significant increase in the number of cases in the housing rental committee. We are very pleased with the scheme, among other things. because it is a short and effective procedure. The purpose of the rental commission is to offer mediation within one month of the matter being brought in. There is also a significant point that the rental agency actually solves the cases they get in, and that very few cases are forwarded to the district court. In addition, it's a cheap solution. Even the Consumer Council has sent a letter to the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs asking that the Houselord Committee not be laid down. The Consumer Council sees the need for a simple dispute resolution body and sees it as very unfortunate that this type of dispute is referred to the courts. According to the letter, the experience of the Consumer Council with the scheme is unprecedented. They want the scheme to be made permanent and to be extended to a geographical extent. With this we recommend the proposal for a decision in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-09-lower.ana.ud1952e80	The rental commission has been a test scheme, only in Oslo and Akershus. It is considered a very successful system, according to the Government and the majority parties. Choosing to make use of the settlement councils as a voluntary arrangement, I'm a little surprised. The settlement councils around the municipalities have a very special composition. They are composed of the local loner and representatives elected by the local government based on local knowledge. The party to the proceedings indicates that the costs of each case have been very high in the case of treatment in the Lease Committee. 58 cases have been dealt with, which suggests that the cost of the proceedings has risen to NOK 40000 per person. I'm sorry. I can formally imagine that this money could have been used for something more reasonable, not least to increase the housing support for those who need it. Is it this majority party that sees as a successful arrangement? The costs of the conciliation councils – at least at the Oslo Conciliation Council – are still the same, because the Conciliation Council members have fixed remuneration – so no money to save, and, as I see it, no efficiency gains at all. What is achieved is only a quality of a type of treatment in line with today's system; only a new cost structure is established. This should be looked at and it should be taken seriously. If this is a successful arrangement, why don't the majority parties choose to introduce this throughout the country, and not just in Oslo and Akershus, so everyone gets the pleasure of this change? I have no great faith in this, so I would recommend that you reconsider this and go back to the old scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-09-lower.ana.ud1952e89	The House Lease Committee was set up as a probationary scheme for Oslo and Akershus for 2001–2005 by the Stoltenberg I Government. It was after enquiry, among others. by the Landsförbund of Huseiernes Landsförbund, the Landsförbund of Norway, the Landsförbund of Norske Boligbyggelag and the Consumer Council, the then municipal minister, Sylvia Brustad, took the initiative in the trial. The intention of the initiators was to establish a mechanism similar to that of the Consumer Dispute Committee. The Bondevik II administration carried out an evaluation of the trial with a host sample. The conclusion was that there are few cases, and that such a system establishes a new legal structure on the side of the day. Overall, this will be a complication of the legal system. The left does not see that the number of cases in question is rising sharply, and we would in principle be restrictive in establishing new bodies of dispute which can be seen as part of the judicial system. We understand that in some of these cases there are less disagreements and small demands on money, but we believe that is precisely why we have the settlement board. It is claimed that the housing lease selection scheme is rapid and reasonable. It must be pointed out, however, that we can be at risk of undermining the legal system by establishing a flora of arbitration, where disputers become more and more professional and professional. Left wants a rule of law with popular anchoring. It also implies that the individual citizen has and must assume co-responsibility for the judicial system. It is therefore important to maintain and substantiate the body regime.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-09-lower.ana.ud1952e102	Seven years ago, a large majority here in Stortinget decided that an experiment should be made with a separate housing selection to settle conflicts in the case of renting a dwelling. The aim of the experiment was to see whether such conflicts could be resolved in a faster and cheaper way for the parties than in ordinary court proceedings. Experimental activities have been carried out with such a housing selection in Oslo for five years and in Akershus for two years. The system has been evaluated by an external consultant, and the result of the evaluation is very uplifting. The vast majority of those who have had their case dealt with in this Houselord Committee have experienced a constructive round of active mediation by a neutral expert in house rental law. Most disputes are also settled during this mediation. The issues that are not settled are then decided by a neutral lawyer together with one tenant representative and one owner-of-house. The trial period has been fast, and the parties have not had to use a lawyer. In this way, many have had their domestic disputes settled promptly and reasonably in relation to ordinary court proceedings. This is entirely in line with the wishes of the majority of the population when the Ministry was asked to carry out experiments with such a selection of rentals. Paradoxically, however, the number of cases has not been as large as could be expected. The government sees it as important to take action to increase the amount of the case. We have therefore proposed that the Conciliation Councils cannot deal with cases which could be dealt with by a Houselord Committee. The proposal has broad support among users. Both the Landsförbund, the Leieboerföreningen in Oslo and the Consumer Council have agreed that the scheme should now replace conciliation. I see this as a confirmation that the system of rental visas is successful, and that the test of rental visas should be continued. I am therefore pleased that the majority of the population closes up on the government proposal – a proposal that will help to increase the number of cases in the housing services committee and thus also improve the social exploitation of this offer. During the treatment of the 2006 State budget, the bulk of the population has joined the government’s proposal to continue the trial of a housing lease selection scheme in 2008. At that time, the new dispute law will be in force, and we will have experience in the use of the new law's rules on small claims process. These rules add up to a process that has many similarities with the way in which the rental services committee deals with its cases. Therefore, when the probationary period for the Housing Lease Committee expires, we will have a good basis to assess whether the changes in the law that are now being passed are working as intended and whether there is still a need for a separate Lease Lease Committee next to the ordinary courts. I record that the opposition is not in favour of this. I might be particularly surprised at the Advancement Party, because there are people who tend to be careful to stress that the courts have more than enough to do, so it's the Advancement Party. And it's a fact that the courts have more than enough to do with crime. Therefore, it must be a good proposal to find solutions to things that are not allowed to the judiciary, in other ways and with which users are very satisfied.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-09-lower.ana.ud1952e115	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-09-lower.ana.ud1952e118	The Council of State referred to good results for the Houselord Committee. Then it's important that you have something to compare with. And then my question is, do you have similar investigations regarding the conciliatory councils and the job they do around the municipality of Norway? At least as I understand it, they have good results in the municipalities where they work on the same issues. Does the Council have the same research results there?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-09-lower.ana.ud1952e123	The experience that we have is that the Home Rental Committee is handling its affairs for the individual in a very cheap way, they are handling matters very quickly, and they are dealing with matters in a way that is very constructive to those who have been involved. When we say it's cheap and fast, it's usually cheap and fast compared to the other agencies that can also deal with such issues. If you look at the cost of individual cases, the government thinks they're too high per. now per single case. That's why we're doing the changes that we're doing now, which means we're getting more issues, and then we're going to get cheaper by the total. matter for the State. But it is important to stress that for the individual, the rental commission is very cheap today.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-09-lower.ana.ud1952e130	Several have not asked for the word for a line. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 360]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-09-lower.ana.ud1952e148	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. It is also proposed that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-09-lower.ana.ud1952e157	In fact, the Progress Party has additional comments, which the party will certainly refer to here in the debate, but otherwise there is an overall committee behind the vote on this matter. The proposal, drawn up by Bent Höie and Ivar Kristiansen, states briefly that the Law on Planning and Buildings should be amended in such a way that, when assessing exemptions from municipal plans, municipalities may be opened up. may focus on the particularities of the applicant and take into account the wider local environment. Local democracy must always be high. The Committee strongly trusts local policy judgement, a judgement that must be expressed primarily through good planning processes and, in particular, through good planning. In this context, the Committee draws attention to the extensive involvement of many teams represented by such planning. Consequently, there must be good grounds for granting a derogation. If not, the plan will lose its maximum necessary legitimacy. Of course, no one wants there to be inflation in granting exemptions. At the same time, however, the Committee is concerned that the rules do not become too rigid in matters where there is no need and can also close down good solutions. In other cases, the list of exemptions must be particularly high, as the Committee points out. There is a great difference between the cases and the Committee considers that the exemptions must be proportionate to the nature of the case. In this context, the rules relating to ‘minor significant regulatory changes’ may be developed as an alternative to exemption, which has been raised by the Council of State by letter to the Committee. It seems that the committee is an idea it may well be worth looking at. In particular, it is possible for municipalities to take the social medical and human interests of the Committee, in the light of the overall legal design, to have a more detailed assessment. For the best, not to say the only right thing, is that the proposal made by the two Right-wing Representatives – which, as you can see, has not been deleted from the committee – is seen in the context of the work being done in the department concerned with the amendments to the Planning and Building Act. The work is based on the proposals of the Plan Law Committee and the Building Law Committee. The plan part has been notified to the Stortinget this year, and the building part is coming, as you know, next year. On this basis, an overall committee proposes that the proposal by the representatives Bent Höie and Ivar Kristiansen be annexed to the Minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-09-lower.ana.ud1952e174	I would like to thank the case rapporteur for an excellent presentation of the case. It shows that there is a great deal of consensus, and that the Committee is united and has a common understanding of the need to amend, improve and simplify the Law on Planning and Building, and that there is a need to clarify the criteria for granting exemptions — including judgement. The Committee makes it clear that it has great confidence in local political judgement in planning and building matters, and that sounds good. It sounds good to the Progress Party that it is such a great consensus. It should be taken into account when presenting this matter to the Council of State on amendments to the Law on Planning and Building, that there is such a consensus within the Committee. I do not believe that municipalities always experience confidence in the discretion they perform in planning and building matters, when they feel that they are still being overrun by county councils and state councils in construction matters that local politicians can experience as obvious and clear issues in local policy contexts. The Progress Party believes that there is still a need to verify the legality of municipal plan decisions, and there is no doubt about that. In the context of the amendment of the Law on Planning and Building with which it is now working, it must be quite clear that the best thing is that the exercise of discretion lies with the local government, which I believe is in accordance with the Soria Moria Declaration – one wants to strengthen local democracy. "A living local democracy is the foundation of the people's rule" I think is actually some of the better of the sentences contained in the Soria Moria Declaration. I think I've mentioned that several times from this pulpit, and I still want to remind the Council of State of it. I read in Dagbladet that the Minister for the Environment is considering limiting municipal autonomy in order to end the right to rule on coastal zone issues. It's not going in the right direction if you want to strengthen local self-government. The Party has stated in its special note that, in the case of any review and verification of the legality of judgments, it is most natural to add such control to any administrative court or to administrative supervision. This, I think, is the input that the Council of State should include in the assessments. It should not be like today that this is left to officials – bureaucrats and case handlers – at the county council. It is a special interpretation of a living local democracy when these officials conduct a policy where a person determines what is good sense and what is bad understanding. The progress party is occupied by the municipal self-government and wants to develop it. The Progress Party further believes that local democracy should consist of more than the administration of budgets. Therefore, the Municipality of Norway must not be subject to constant review by the Council of State and by the County Council in the case of local democratic decisions – even unanimous – of the local governments. But I agree that of course it should not be such that any municipality can powder Norwegian law by referring to local political judgement. It is important that municipalities have a wide range of opportunities to use discretion, but it must be within the Norwegian law. And the framework of the law must be clear. The problem with objections from case handlers is not about stopping the offences from the municipalities – at least not until today – but about overcoming the judgment. Everyone who is concerned about local democracy hears and understands that this is going to be wrong. And that's exactly where the core of the big challenge lies. This must be seen justly for the citizens and for the local politicians.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-09-lower.ana.ud1952e191	The background to this initiative was a concrete case in the municipality of Sola. The farmer Ole Reke, sitting in a wheelchair, wanted to build a new, furnished house, so that he and his wife could live a full and independent life – while the next generation could move into the main house on the farm – without having to extract their old parents from the morgue. The local government said yes, but the county said no. That was also done by the sentinel, after the duck. It was referred to the 1985 Planning and Building Act, which states that the special grounds for exemption must, of course, be within the scope of the law. It was used as an argument that the social medical and human considerations that the local government had taken on that matter could not be taken into account. This shows that where the law meets reality, the rules of rigidity become and close to the good solutions for people. Here was one in a situation that was very special, and where building this house would not have any meaning for agricultural soil – it was an old gravel roof this house was to be built on. And it's quite obvious that that would mean a huge amount to the life situation of the couple that this is about. Only those who live in the municipality – those who sit on the municipal board, those who meet them in the store every day, those who go past the piece of land on which it was to be built – who know, and see that this is a special matter, and who are best suited to make this decision. The further away from such a problem, the fewer assumptions there is to make the decision. When one went into this matter and asked what was the concrete reason why the County Council could take this decision, one said that there was a sentence in the pre-worked law of the planning and building law on which one hung this decision. An initiative was then taken to correct this situation. I am therefore very pleased with the consideration given to the matter in the committee, and that a unanimous committee has joined the sentence in the position that I feel is absolutely essential, namely: ‘In the context of the work on amendments to the Law on Planning and Building, the Committee will ask the Ministry to consider in more detail how social medical and human considerations can be taken into account in handling applications for exemptions.’ The word "how" is very important. It does not say whether social medical considerations can be taken into account, but how, and a unanimous committee clearly states that the legislation should not be too rigid in finding the right solutions. As the wife of the concerned farmer said to Rogaland's newspaper about a letter they received from the County: “They come with paragraphs that we ordinary people almost don’t understand.” I think that everyone who knows things from their local environment that have received this type of treatment has the same opinion: that the paragraph doesn't match reality. The Secretary-General of the Swedish Handicap Federation, Lars Ødegård, stated in the same case: ‘This sounds like a clear example of soundness of mind not being used. Those who are set to manage the public must have the ability to see the human in matters.» The aim of this proposal is to give local authorities the opportunity to take human and social medical considerations into account in some cases. It is the same local government that has adopted the plans, that is behind the plans, and that is committed to maintaining the plans. It should only be lacking if, in very special cases, the same local government would also have the opportunity to make exceptions to these plans – when they see that this is the best for the individual person affected and for the community.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-09-lower.ana.ud1952e223	I think the committee has come up with very reasonable and ground-based comments on this matter. I also think it is illustrative for the debate that both the representative of Hagebakken, the representative of Höie and the representative of Thomsen really agree with and agree with his conclusions. As a decentralist – as I tend to call myself – I am happy about it. I am glad that one has such a fundamental belief in local democracy, and that all parties stress in common that we have great faith in local political judgement, so that one can find good adaptations. What I also think is important in the majority's view is how we underline the importance of good local democratic processes and how it can lay the foundation for the development of a municipality. Furthermore, it is important that those living and working in a municipality should be concerned with spatial planning and that land planning and the development of humility and settlements are a very important and interesting part of local policy work. The leveling processes are not in progress in any vacuum. There are strong national leaders, for example: in relation to soil protection, and there are broad local processes behind the design of municipal plans and spatial plans. With a fundamental belief in local democracy, I believe that those who live in the individual area have the best conditions and know best how to develop the area and how to develop it further. Things change, and plans need to be revised when things change. Like me, you have to have faith in the local sense. We in the Committee are also clear that we do not want to be inflationary in granting exemptions, but we cannot see that we are going to have a rigid bureaucracy that can stop good adaptations – to people and to the local environment. That is why I am pleased with the attitude, I am pleased with the consensus, and I am glad that we are showing such a sensible approach, where we see that we need good planning processes so that we can see the whole, and that we cannot have a bureaucracy that is so rigid that one cannot make good adjustments in the individual community.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-09-lower.ana.ud1952e234	I would just like to say very briefly that the proposers in this matter address an important issue, namely the powers of local politicians. In the view of the Left, local democracy is very important, yes, so important that we want to legislate. This also means that local politicians must have important tasks and very large powers. With regard to discretion and exemptions, it is important that the law is up-to-date and clear. The Planning and Building Act has for a long time been a tool for investigation and assessment. The left therefore supports the proposal that one should not go in and make changes now. At the same time, we would point out that it is important that a new draft law on the planning and building law be dealt with at Stortinget as soon as possible. The announced administrative reform and the possibility for the state to intervene in local democracy will probably also be assessed. We await with excitement the Government's proposals in this regard.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-09-lower.ana.ud1952e243	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 360]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-09-lower.ana.ud1952e259	Today, we are to adopt amendments to the Civil Code. Citizenship has an important symbolic meaning by marking its belonging to society and its fundamental values. Citizenship provides important rights and obligations that affect the participation of citizens in Norwegian society. Today’s amendments concern the introduction of governance measures in the Civil Code equivalent to those introduced by the Law on Foreign Affairs of 10 June 2005. As rapporteur of the case, I would like to stress that the management system of the Foreign Affairs Act and the Citizens' Act should be similar, as there is a close link between the Foreign Affairs Act and the Citizens' Act. It is a condition of citizenship that, during their stay in the country, applicants have had authorisations under the Foreign Affairs Act. The Foreign Affairs Directorate, UDI, deals with applications in the first instance under both laws, and the Foreign Affairs Department, UNE, is the Board of Appeal. I am therefore pleased that the Committee is in favour of the conformity of these laws. However, I would like to comment on some of the proposals under consideration today. Access is granted to the Ministry of Labour and Inclusion to give general instructions to the UDI in the field of citizenship. The general rule remains that the Ministry cannot instruct on interpretation of the law, on the exercise of judgement or on the decision in individual cases. This applies both to UNE and to UDI, the two bodies which are to take decisions under new national law. The Ministry may consider UDI’s positive decisions in civil matters to UNE. This results in quality assurance because the scheme ensures a two-way handling in disputed cases not brought by the non-resident. It will also promote equal treatment in administration. Consideration of the applicant’s own situation is ensured by the standing of the decision. The principle opinion will only have meaning for later matters. One of the main objectives of the positive decision testing scheme is to contribute to a more consistent UDI and UNE practice. Access to the test of positive decisions under the Act of Citizens would be less necessary than under the Act of Foreign Affairs, because the provisions of the Act of Citizens give less instruction on the use of discretion. Today, we decide that the Ministry will be given access to questions about the validity of the UNE positive decision before the courts for trial. The Committee considers that the proposed scheme could increase UNE's attention on the issue of the validity of positive decisions. It is appropriate, as mentioned above, to have equivalent control mechanisms with decisions under the Act of Citizenship to those under the Foreign Affairs Act. The King of the State Council shall be the Board of Appeal in matters of national security or foreign policy considerations. The reasons for the proposal are that the system makes the two-way procedure more effective than the UN, which may be instructed by the ministry in such cases, to deal with the complaint. Dispute settlement in the UN shall also be possible in matters governed by the Act of Citizenship. The Committee considers that the establishment of the large-scale system is intended to ensure a greater level of equality of practice and non-discrimination in the management of non-residents. This is true both when UNE has regular complaints for treatment and when UNE is testing UDI’s positive decision following a decision by the Ministry. Disadvantages are made in the examination of applications for citizenship and it is necessary to obtain and verify information on whether the applicant has been convicted or whether the applicant is under investigation for a criminal offence. It is proposed that the processing of personal data be enshrined in the Act, in order to ensure that the processing of personal data under the Act is in accordance with the Data Protection Act. As rapporteur, I would like to recommend the Committee's position.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-09-lower.ana.ud1952e285	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-09-lower.ana.ud1952e301	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 362]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-09-lower.ana.ud1952e309	The odelsting shall then vote in case No. 1 to 4.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-09-lower.ana.ud1952e352	The party of progress, the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-09-lower.ana.ud1952e365	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The President assumes that the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left will also vote against this.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-09-lower.ana.ud1952e379	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-09-lower.ana.ud1952e519	The party of progress has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-09-lower.ana.ud1952e583	The party of progress has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-09-lower.ana.ud1952e610	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-09-lower.ana.ud1952e621	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-09-lower.ana.ud1952e772	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-09-lower.ana.ud1952e782	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-09-lower.ana.ud1952e793	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word under Section 37(a) of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
