ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-07.ana.ud612e39	The representatives of Dagrun Eriksen, Truls Wickholm and Per Ove Width, who have been on leave, have again taken their seats. The called alternate of the South Tribute County, Aud Herbjørg Kvalvik, has taken the seat. Three permit applications are available: from 7 November onwards and until further notice from the Right-wing Group on sick leave for the representative Petter Løvik from 7 November onwards and until further notice from the representative Finn Martin Vallersnes on leave from 8 November to 16 November in order to give talks at New York State University after an invitation and to take part in the UN parliamentary consultation in cooperation with the Interparliamentary Union, New York. These applications are proposed for immediate consideration and approval. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. From the first alternate of the More and Romesdal counties, Oddbjørn Vatne, there is an application to be exempted from meeting under the authority of the representative Eli Sollied Överaas, for reasons of well-being. This application is proposed to be examined immediately and to be accepted. It shall be deemed to have been adopted. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the term of leave: for the Mora and Romesdal counties: Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve and Jenny KlingeFor the Rogaland counties: Siri A. Meling2. Siri A. Meling is elected to Lagtinget for the time she meets the representative of Finn Martin Vallersnes.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-07.ana.ud612e109	Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve and Jenny Klinge are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-07.ana.ud612e115	The President will propose the election of two presidents for the Stortinges meetings today and the rest of the current week – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Per Ove Width and Solvency Horne. – Other proposals are not available, and Per Ove Wideth and Solvency Horne are unanimously elected as presidents of the current week’s meetings.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-07.ana.ud612e138	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of response be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-07.ana.ud612e147	The appointment of the Government in 2008 as a year of cultural diversity is consistent with several international actions in the field of culture. The UNESCO report ‘Our Creative Diversity’, which came in 1995, has since been followed up by the UNESCO Universal Declaration on Cultural Diversity, which came in 2001. In addition to the UN, the EU Commission, the Council of Europe, the Nordic Council of Ministers and the Nordic Council of Ministers have also put diversity policy on the agenda differently. Sweden has had its cultural ‘diversification year’ in 2006, and the European Commission has proposed that 2008 be the European Year of Intercultural Dialogue. In the Soria Moria Declaration, the government of Stoltenberg has underlined the importance of multicultural efforts in cultural life. This shall be achieved by ‘making the multicultural perspective of all fields of cultural life visible and contributing to the creation of better meeting places between majority and minority cultures’. The purpose of the cultural diversity marking year can be described along two main lines: By letting go of other voices, other life experiences and other stories, cultural and artistic life will be enriched, both in terms of content and quality.By giving room for diversity in culture, the arenas are created for communication and interaction – which in turn can provide greater mutual knowledge and deeper understanding between people with different cultural positions. Both approaches will also be important in the longer term. It is important to stress that cultural life in today’s Norway is already characterised by a diversity in which both minority and majority cultures form the basis for exciting artistic experiences. The government's commitment to a year of cultural diversity is based on precisely this active and living cultural life as the basis for the work to be done. Within the project group to be appointed, which is to put in place strategies for the Year of Manifestation, a wide range of recruitment is required from the many relevant minority communities – from institutions, organisations and the free cultural field. At the same time, it will be an important task to inspire both institutions and cultural environments to recruit from it a majority culture, in order to strengthen contact, communication and interaction with both cultural actors and audiences with a minority background. The 2008 cultural diversity year must be broadly anchored, both culturally and geographically. We must reach both the professional artistic environments and the voluntary cultural field. Children and young people will be an important target group for the work of the Year of Manhood. Many of the multicultural bets we've had, and like the Horizon/Mela Foundation, Du Great World!, Nordic Black Theatre, African Culture Center and Cosmopolite Foundation, have grown up as very important actors. The same is true of the two festivals Förde Internationale Folkemusikfestival and the indigenous festival Riddu Riddu in Kåfjord in Troms. These and other actors will be important partners in the work of the Year of Manifestation. Much of the multicultural effort we've had so far has been project-based and time-limited. It is therefore important to find an overall approach and concrete action for the efforts of the Mangfold Year, so that the experience gained can be found on a more permanent basis in the general cultural policy in the years to come. International work on cultural diversity is based on the recognition of the importance of the cultural dimension in a globalised world. The cultural influence pattern is diverse, and culture adopts different forms, characterised by both local, national and global. International reports define the field of culture that bears different values and identities that can contribute to exchange, renewal, communication and artistic expression. It may seem that some people think that investing in a year of cultural diversity is problematic in the sense that it can destroy our Norwegian cultural heritage. To that end, cultural traditions that are worth taking care of and that have survived have done so precisely because they have been able to meet new impulses and strengthen tradition through change. Culture is not static – culture and art are and must be a moving part of living life. The United Nations Human Development Report of 2004 has formulated it as follows: ‘Country does not have to choose between national unit and cultural diversity. Studies show that the two considerations can coexist and, in fact, often do so.’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-07.ana.ud612e181	First, I would like to take the opportunity to congratulate the Council of State on its 40th anniversary. The Progress Party does not support the Government’s 2008 appointment as a year of cultural diversity. Rather, we regard this as a counterpoint to our proposal for a cultural canon, where the main message of the Progress Party is to take care of our cultural traditions and heritage. A Norwegian cultural canon is primarily a tool for safeguarding the national cultural heritage. So one of the main points is that this has to be a process. There will be different opinions on such projects and different opinions on the selected works. This is one of the greatest forces in the project – that we get a debate about our cultural heritage. The cannon will help everyone to understand Norwegian culture and help keep Norwegian culture up to date. I think it's of great importance for everyone to understand Norwegian cultural heritage. We therefore fully agree that the rapporteur and the Advancement Party are in complete disagreement. It's not like that, I think our Norwegian cultural heritage will pass no matter what kind of pressure it gets. We've seen that some of our old traditions are already disappearing. It really worries us. It may look like a major effort to be made in a diversity year in 2008 to promote and shed light on the multicultural field. Of course, the Progress Party also supports the UNESCO Declaration on Cultural Diversity and Dialogue. Clearly, the cultural dimension in a global perspective is important, both to understand each other and to communicate in a universal language. It may almost seem that the government does not think that the work being done around municipalities and counties, and so far also nationally, is good enough. But the fact is that more budgets are allocated to ensure the diversity of cultural life. One of the things that concerns the Progress Party is that a commitment to diversity, as the Government wants, must go beyond already existing offers. And who is it that won't get any more money from the state budget? Are there any strange actions, which are just part of our cultural heritage, that give us identity? Something like that has to go at the expense of, and I would like to hear who gets less when someone gets more within the already existing framework. There is no further promise for this Year of Variety, and it is no wonder that my concern for existing measures is justified. The Communication states that schools, institutions, measures for children and young people, different voluntary institutions and cultural life should be generally involved. But as far as I know, this includes the whole of Culture Norway. Does this mean, then, that the Government does not recognise the work that is already being done? I'm so tired of swollen words and fine May 17 speech about culture. This can quickly become a new message where expectations are high, and how little other than moving funds is the result. I want to refer to the work that is already being done around, both in schools and in cultural institutions, to become acquainted with foreign culture. As politicians, we should stay away from this, and actually allow those who burn for it to do their job free of political control.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-07.ana.ud612e205	A year of cultural diversity immediately sounds like a good idea. For the Right, diversity is an important quality feature of society and of cultural policy. Without diversity no dynamics and no renewal. For us, therefore, the desire for diversity is a very central consideration of cultural policy. As a comment to the previous speaker, I would also like to say that I think it is dangerous to put the Year of Manhood up against the question of cultural heritage. It is quite obvious that Norway, like other countries, has a special responsibility to care for the Norwegian cultural heritage, the Norwegian culture of the people, that is, the strong traditions that we carry with us. We have that both morally and naturally from working for us, but also from international conventions. I think it may be an all-right debate in relation to the Year of Mangfold, but I also believe that there must be strong progress in other contexts. When it comes to Mangfold's year, we're probably thinking a little bit about whether this is a good idea when it comes to the problem. That's because we know that there are some potential traps that you can go into here. In the enthusiasm for the good cause, it is important to keep some of the critical approach. For a majority culture to actually be able to give room to minorities without – what to say – flooding them, can be a more demanding exercise than we think. But maybe that's why it's also important to have a year of diversity for debate, where you put critical searchlights on whether we're really as tolerant and inclusive as we want it to when we're out in the world and show up. But it's important that a year of diversity doesn't get the character of being top-directional. Culture must grow from below, it must spring from individual initiatives and be associated with ownership and enthusiasm for those concerned. The implementation of a year of diversity can easily get something instrumental over it that we think can quickly lead the wrong way. Diversity cannot be planned or managed. Manifestations must grow naturally in a society characterized by tolerance and a high degree of choice. The diversity of sources of funding, diversity vis-à-vis policy-makers and not least real diversity in terms of dissemination. Who is it that we turn to? So who are we thinking about? In the Communication, the integration perspective is perhaps the most prominent. But it is also a question of the diversity that is latent in traditional Norwegian society in relation to people's culture, cultural heritage, homoculture, religious environments. Here are many things you can raise. In this case, the announced working group will have a significant task in relation to how they choose to deal with the content of the Mangfold year. As I said, the message emphasises ethnicity as an important starting point. In the Swedish Year of Diversity, we see that a very broad perspective is being taken into account, which will fall Right in Taste. Perhaps there is reason to take a closer look at what this working group should do. Perhaps you could have a slightly tighter definition of your mandate. If we talk about bringing our new countrymen closer into Norwegian society, we think it's very central that we build on the initiatives that the immigrant communities themselves represent. In Oslo, and perhaps in some of the other major cities, this is not a big problem. There are initiatives here that we believe should be strengthened. But in small places it is probably a lot more demanding to figure out how to work on this. Ultimately, we think this is going to be about a discussion that should not be influenced by the great conclusions, but which may rather be about how we open our own culture, and how we build up under the tolerance that we so often think we have. So we do not want the Year of Mangfold to be welcomed without some critical thought. We think that can be the starting point for many interesting debates, and our starting point is that diversity is not something to be adopted. Manifestations must naturally emerge from a society of great choice, where individual initiatives will emerge.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-07.ana.ud612e222	I would also like to start by congratulating the Council of State on the 40th anniversary. It's nice that he's grown up! Why do we need a year of cultural diversity? The government's clear view is that the cultural field is one of the most important areas affecting the conditions for full and qualified participation in a multicultural society. A prerequisite for the cultural field to play such an integral role is that cultural life itself is open to all and to new cultural expressions. The aim is to develop a truly multicultural society where cultural expressions meet and develop and create new cultural expressions. A one-sided cultural policy promoting a national unity culture seems restrictive and exclusive. We need to facilitate the development of cultural life based on the diversity that today characterises cultural life throughout Norway. That is why we need a year of cultural diversity – in order to create a dialogue, innovation and a promise, so that all citizens can participate and experience a diversity of cultural expressions. SV will highlight the major challenge we face in the field of culture in relation to children and young people with a minority background — especially in major cities. In Oslo, nearly 40pst. by pupils in primary school, minority background. In some parts of the city, the number is much higher. Today, this is reflected to a small extent in the field of culture. Here we have a responsibility as key cultural politicians, and it is important that the year of diversity focuses specifically on children and their opportunities for culture and cultural exchange. For example, for children and young people: the cultural school and cultural schools important measures that reach very many. Unfortunately, the cultural schools have few students with a minority background. It is important that the parental payment is so low that it is a real offer for all groups who want it, to be able to use the cultural school. The aim of the Mangfold Year is to establish lasting positive changes, such as transparency, tolerance, understanding, communication and natural inclusion of different cultural expressions as an expression of the global world in which we live. It becomes important to raise awareness of institutions and organisations receiving public support for cultural activities so that they reflect more closely and take responsibility for the existing cultural diversity. All actors wishing to contribute shall be able to participate in the development of the Manifest Year in 2008 and to be active contributors to implement concrete actions. A project group shall be set up to coordinate the planning work for the cultural diversity year. The project team must cooperate with the institutions involved and organisations from both minority and majority cultures in Norway. Key actors and businesses with a multicultural profile are the Horizon/Mela Foundation, The Big World!, Nordic Black Theatre, African Culture Center and Cosmopolite Foundation. These will be important as drivers and partners in the Mangfold Year. SV will highlight the important role of the library. It's an important meeting place and a cultural arena where people from different cultures and generations meet. I want to mention the successful investment in the multilingual library at the Deichman library, and we should also look at Sweden, in the Kurdish library, both important examples of how to work with language training, which is essential for integration. SV looks at the marking of a year of cultural diversity as the starting point for the establishment of a clearer integration of a diversity of cultural expressions in Norway. We are already well on track to establish our own year of diversity, and I would like to stress what the government parties say in their position, that special economic incentives and seedlings must be considered in order to produce artistic innovation – that is what I think is absolutely necessary. This year offers only opportunities. I look forward to it and rejoice.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-07.ana.ud612e239	I would also like to take advantage of the opportunity to congratulate the Council of State on the 40th anniversary of today! Promoting cultural diversity is a key objective of cultural policy in the future. Such a key objective represents a fundamental change in the perspective of cultural policy and, as I see it, is a vital consequence of social development. Cultural policy in Norway has traditionally been close to national construction and equality-oriented welfare policies. A central legitimisation of cultural policy has in the past been the promotion of a distinctive national identity anchored in a common national culture. The Culture Communication explains how different dimensions of globalisation, not least increasing immigration, have contributed to the challenge today of the ideals of equality and national integration of new forms of inequality. Future cultural policy must turn its perspective away from the constructions of a single common culture and facilitate the development of culture based on the diversity that characterises Norwegian society and the cultural situation today. Furthermore, I believe that a broad spectrum of creative, practicing, documentary and mediating efforts from all parts of the cultural field is a valuable counterweight to the uniquely different commercial forces in society. Since the 1980s, many cultural measures have been implemented which have widened the gap in Norwegian cultural life. Many of the interventions are anchored in different minority settings. There are several activities with footholds in these environments, which have produced and disseminated music, theatre views, art exhibitions, etc. for many years. I can also refer to the Center for African Cultural Mediation, Du große Welt!, the Horizon Foundation and the Nordic Black Theatre Foundation, which several have been in here. International cultural centres and some museums also carry out documentation and dissemination work based on contemporary cultural diversity. In addition, several festivals are conscious of expressions anchoring in Asia, Africa and Latin America. Furthermore, some state institutions have worked actively to incorporate expressions that originate from these parts of the world, both in the ordinary act and as separate bets. However, the cultural diversity of Norwegian society is only slightly reflected in the institutionalised cultural field. Many artists with a minority background experience either being ignored or being reduced to exotic features alongside the main cultural stream. It varies from just starting to just starting to what extent such a lack is incorporated on equal terms, and to what extent it is willing to do so. In the field of music, especially in some genres, there are very many different traditions and forms of expression. In other parts of cultural life, on the other hand, it has proved difficult to build up an inclusive hold in terms that originate from traditions other than the Western. In today's global and multicultural situation, to some extent, we need to redefine the transfiguration of 'national culture' if we are to give way to a growing variety of artistic expressions. We have to ask ourselves to what extent it is possible and to what extent it would be right to hold on to a notion that our art and cultural life is primarily Norwegian and one and alone is part of a Western art tradition. We must dare to meet the multicultural with knowledge of our own cultural roots. I think it's time to say that cultural diversity makes it more richer in traditional Norwegian culture, and that it doesn't pose a threat, rather the opposite. In this way, as a year of cultural diversity, 2008 is a good opportunity to stimulate new and existing environments that aim to promote cultural diversity as a reality in today’s Norway. It is also important to strengthen contact, communication and interaction between established cultural institutions and groups of practitioners and audiences with a minority background. Furthermore, we need to develop the multicultural perspective within established schemes of action and support within the field of culture. The Christian People's Party believes that a marking year will help to achieve these goals.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-07.ana.ud612e267	The central party is summed up in the fact that cultural shortages are of great value in the development of society. A year of cultural diversity with the objectives for which the case-speaker has done well is something we're hot followers of. The lack makes us rich, and better knowledge of the lack and other people's opinions and expressions often help to break down partitions. Lack and creativity often go hand in hand. It's between different ideas and expressions that new ideas and new expressions are created. So cultural diversity is a good thing in itself. It's, as Molvær Grimstad said, a good idea to celebrate the lack when one knows that unity characterizes other parts of society. The centre party is in favour of measures that promote the lack of cultural expression. By allowing several artists with different backgrounds to implement and present their own projects, we are simultaneously opening up more understanding across cultural differences and different ethnic backgrounds. People with a minority background are currently a large and inseparable group in this country. This has so far been reflected to a small extent in art and culture. Opening up and encouraging a larger section of non-Western art is both a good cultural policy and a good integration policy. The goal of the Center Party is to allow minority artists to express themselves on their own premises, and that their activities become a natural part of the art and cultural life. Until that happens, targeted measures aimed at minority artists are needed. In this way, too, a year of shortage is a plentiful initiative. The institutions play an important role in the implementation of a year of absence, as stated by the case-leader. We want to stand behind what the case spokesperson has done in this way. At the same time, it is important that we support the recordings, activities and projects that come from the artists themselves. For the Centre Party, it is important to stress that the Year of Disaster will be something more than a series of events, only visited by people who are already actively seeking cultural deprivation, listen to the broad team of organisations and communities in our country most engaged in this work. The objective must be an event in all communities and commitment from the largest possible part of the voluntary sector in the implementation of the Year of Manpower. This is the only way that a missing year can become something like a lot of them. Only by making the effort into something that shows that in the communities, when the whole country and engage people of all ages, reaches a full goal of promoting the value of cultural deprivation, and only thus reaches the goal of greater mutual knowledge and deeper understanding between people of different cultural standings.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-07.ana.ud612e282	There are no cultures that have grown up just by growing their seas. By and large, all the cultures that are large, and that have become tone-setting cultures and cultural nations, have come into contact with other cultures. American culture has so much impact and so strong living conditions in us today precisely because of the melting pot America has been for different cultures. Up through history, empires have been seen to come and go culturally based on their strength as melting crucibles for different cultures. The only great kingdom we've seen on our continent that tried to grow up just by growing up sea, didn't last that long – five–six years – and it's not a story we're proud of. Therefore, in the melting pot, in the meeting, it is that artists and those who make cultural expressions can meet and develop new things, that the strength of a culture lies. That's where the excitement in a city is. Berlin has the position it has in Europe today, because it attracts artists from all over Europe who want to develop their artistic expressions there. Therefore, the Year of Diversity is a fine and offensive response from the Government to the debate that was really linked to the Muhammad drawings. It is important that such a year of diversity is used precisely to meet the different artistic and cultural expressions and to develop the meeting places. But I have two concerns and a challenge. The one anxiety I have is probably the same as the one on the Right, that this is going to be a top-heavy little project, with a secretariat where you're essentially going to make things so that someone can cut over fine silk loops and open. I don't want it. I want first of all to use this opportunity to raise the institutions we already have. For my second concern is that we have some institutions that are set up just to be the meeting between different cultural expressions that are the intention of the Year of Manhood, as I see it, but that have been poorly treated by parties of all political deportations and by all governments, and that now really need a promise to get up to the same level as the national institutions. The vast majority of those who have been here on the pulpit have mentioned these institutions by name, so I don't need it. But at least it's a concern to me that you're not using this opportunity to use the networks you already have, but that you're definitely trying to establish new ones. There is also a good deal of exciting action outside these institutions, where some exciting steps have been taken that may now have the opportunity to follow-up. One of them is the vision of Snelda, which I hope the Council of State might say something about, and which his party has been driving along with the Left in Oslo City Council. And it's also using arenas like this. The Mela Festival as an important spearhead to carry out such a multiplicity year, I hope the Council of State will take over. The last area, which is equally important, and which we often forget about in terms of cultural diversity, is the literature area. If you look at the conflicts that exist in the world today, and see which cultures are set up against each other, and then compare it to how much literature is translated between those cultures, there are some scary perspectives. Not many Arabic authors are being translated into Norwegian. Nor are many Norwegian authors being translated into Arabic, even though it is more that way than the other. Contributing to the cultural dialogue that lies in literature, I think, is an extra challenge here. Maybe having a year of diversity opens up that dialogue. The fact that some cities in Norway have chosen to be free cities for persecuted authors has opened the dialogue in a very exciting way. Being able to allow the free-city mindset also applies to other artistic expressions and at the same time allowing several cities to be free of persecuted authors think I've opened a dialogue related to literature that's exciting, especially when it comes to understanding other cultures.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-07.ana.ud612e293	The next speaker is Trond Giske. The President would like to be allowed to join the congratulations draw on the occasion of the day.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-07.ana.ud612e297	Thank you very much for your congratulations and also for the thanks to others who have pointed out that the evening of life is approaching. It's nice to be able to celebrate the day here in Stortinget. But even more pleasantly, so many speakers have emphasized exactly what is the government's point: that the core of all cultural development is the meeting between old and new, between the familiar and the unknown, that cultural expression is not constant, but always takes shape, hits root, meets new expressions, finds other directions, disappears or evolves further. It's all a constant process of change. We know that old, rotted Norwegian cultural expressions like rosepainting, woodcut traditions, banners and folk adventures either have their origins far from Norway or at least are strongly influenced by outside impulses, and then we have gradually turned them into our own expressions, elements of our common cultural heritage. The essence of that reasoning is that without this dynamics, without this meeting between tradition and new impulses, any culture will stagnate and become uninteresting. It is this tension between the traditional and the renewal that brings the cultural field forward and that makes cultural expressions known to be relevant, relevant, authentic, challenging or sometimes un topical. There is also a basis for thinking that diversity is a positive thing. The diversity is an energy source that can further our cultural field, not a threat to old traditions, nor to Norwegian or our own language and expression. The diversity is positive, and – and it is important to emphasise – diversity is not a sector. The manifold is a state. The diversity is a characteristic of a dynamic, living and good cultural life. A diversity of cultural expressions is not a matter of course. Norwegian cultural policy is based on the recognition that the market alone is not a sufficient platform to ensure diversity and a high-quality cultural life. We have taken the consequences of this, among other things. in the 2007 state budget, where we are implementing a historic promise for the cultural sector with nearly DKK 0.5 billion more to culture. At the same time, we see that the diversity dimension has often been characterised by short-term thinking and in a way has been slightly outside the general cultural policy debate. The aim of a year of diversity is to bring this into the core of cultural life. We see that diversity is also increasing in Norway, but we also see that we are not doing well enough to preserve that diversity. That is why the Government, with its anchor in the Soria Moria Declaration, in St. ermeld. No 17 for 2005-2006 proposed the use of 2008 as a year of cultural diversity. We want to make the multicultural perspective visible, we want to contribute to meeting places between majority cultures and minority cultures, we want to strengthen the internationalisation of Norwegian cultural life – it is an important part of stimulating diversity – and we also want to strengthen the various minority actors on the road. Several have been concerned about it and mentioned actors such as the Mela Festival, the Center for African Cultural Dissemination, Agenda X, the Big World!, the Nordic Black Theatre and the International Cultural Centre and Museum. All have received increases in the state budget for 2007. It is important, but real diversity only comes when the great money and the heavy institutions and structures take diversity seriously in their artistic profile choices, in their recruitment of actors and in their dissemination work to new audiences. Only then can we have real diversity. If we just rely on the important minority groups, diversity won't be real. Then we don't get to the whole cultural life. So the question is, as politicians, how are we going to make sure that these institutions follow up on this? We're going to have an arm's length distance, and the institutions are going to have their artistic freedom. Well, we can do something through letters of allocation and budgets, but I think the 2008 Mangfold Year can just be a catalyst for the institutions to have to take the debate, create the meeting places and networks, and not least can increase the knowledge of the multicultural and diverse. That's the way we're going to work. Another question that arises is: are we going to have earmarked and increased levels of budget? We're going to have some budget. Already for 2007, there is a budget for both organisation and, in part, allocation to multicultural activities. I think earring alone will only cure symptoms, which will appear again as soon as the earring disappears. We have to go to the nucleus. We need to change the attitudes and views of the multicultural. I am very pleased that there is such a broad majority in the Storting that supports the Government in this. It promises well for the implementation of the Year of Manhood and the job we have in front of us.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-07.ana.ud612e312	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-07.ana.ud612e315	It has its price to go from being the new wine to becoming vintage wine – and I'm talking about experience. But it was a little bit of a depression. We heard the Council say it's a budget, but in the communication it's obviously supposed to be a formidable bet, and it's actually going to be a change of mind out there. It must be at the expense of something. Then I would like to ask the Council of State, where should this money be taken from, and at the expense of whom?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-07.ana.ud612e322	The answer to that is that the Government implements the greatest interest in culture in history. We are fivefold the growth in the 2007 state budget towards the last budget of the Bondevik government – over half a billion more. It's the greatest increase in history. And we're going to keep raising the cultural budget up to 1 pst. So here there'll be plenty of monks for the multicultural effort as well. My main point is that most of this is not going to happen through ear-marked means. We have to make sure that the Opera through its operating budget of $300 million. ensure diversity and multiculturality. We must ensure that the Oslo Philharmonic does so through its budget, that the National Theatre does so, that all the heavy, ordinary museums, institutions, orchestras and theatres in its repertoire elections, in its recruitment and in its public communication are multicultural and take care of diversity. Only then will we succeed in creating a real, good and diverse cultural life.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-07.ana.ud612e329	When I did not join the ranks of the congregators, it was of course an incurrence. Those who believe that the Council of State has intended to sit on the night of life and watch the sunset, I think it is a little too early. Let me say, how big you've grown, and we hope that you get the age linen and show moves over you with the years! For this is a councillor of state with action claws. In relation to films, we have seen that the Council of State has not gone out of its way to think about quotas for women, for example. And now when he says he's going to make sure that the country's big institutions take this diversity perspective into account, that politics is important, that this is a tool we're going to run, that gives cause for reflection and will perhaps be a starting point for some of the debates we're going to get right in the Year of Man. Does the Council of State consider that during the planning process, issues such as quotaing, clear target formulations and the use of instruments should be addressed to institutions?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-07.ana.ud612e338	The representative Thommess, who is both older, wiser and wiser than the undersigned, knows very well and also shares the Government's view that we should have an arm's length distance from the artistic choices made in the institutions and by artists and cultural workers. And here we are in the middle of the dilemma that our political desire to contribute to increased diversity leads to when we meet these institutions and the artistic businesses. I'm skeptical about quotaing in terms of purely artistic selections, because it conflicts with the basic arm length principle. But I am a very strong supporter of the fact that, if you don't have a statutory quota, you have at least a conscious attitude towards appointing people with a minority background to all governing councils and committees, award committees, etc., that you have in the established cultural bureaucracy, which takes a lot of the decisions regarding, among other things. budget, ensuring that the samples reflect the composition of the Norwegian people.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-07.ana.ud612e345	Now there was a nice, festive atmosphere here, so I was going to top it off with one thing that I know that both my party, the Left, and the Government Party, the Workers' Party, have been very engaged in in the Oslo, namely the Snelda project. It is an exciting continuation of many of the important diversity institutions in Oslo. It could become a national spearhead in this area and be an exciting development of one of the institutions mentioned earlier by the Council of State, namely the Opera. I don't expect the Council of State to say yes or no to the Snelda project, but Oslo City Council has at least said in majority form that this is a project you think it is exciting to continue working on. So I just want to give the council the opportunity to say the same thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-07.ana.ud612e350	I think just one of the nice things about such a diversity year, and the job around it, is that very many new projects will be launched – perhaps partly as short-term projects, but also as fixed institutions, networks, meeting places, incentives and influence agencies towards the institutions. The representative of Grande also mentioned this in his main post with translation of literature, that it had to get e.g. Norwegian literature in Arabic and Arabic literature in Norwegian is a way of getting to know diversity. So here are many ideas that the Year of Man and the discussion around it will bring out. Then, as budget warehouses responsible, we get to make sure that this also gets its place in permanent culture Norway. I will not stand by and check out one project after another, but of course accept all good ideas with great thanks and openness. Then we get to hope that everyone else also contributes, so that the Year of Man can lead to a lasting change, not only become a small selection year that remains as a fine memory, but has actually led to some structural changes that we can benefit from in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-07.ana.ud612e359	Like the others in this Chamber, I would like to congratulate the Council of State on its 40th anniversary. I even rounded 40 a year and a half ago. I didn't get so much media attention, nor did I get so much attention here in the staging room, but there is nothing I'm crying for. I noticed that the council did not respond fully to the question from my colleague Karin S. Woldseth about where to get the money, so I would like to try another question. We have recorded that we are now going to put more money into multicultural activities, and we have done a lot of that in Norway over the last 10–15 years. The result is that there are still deep divides between ethnic Norwegians and immigrants. We've seen that a radicalized Islam exists in the best of luck, we have female oppression, and we have, as a symptom of some of it, honorary drop etc. So we have to do more of the same when we've had actions for 10-15 years that haven't worked. I want to ask the Council of State the question: Is this a smart policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-07.ana.ud612e370	I think it is absolutely right that the problems that the representative mentions still exist. It's not because we've done too much of what we've done, but because we've done too little. Because I think that these cultural meeting places are created, for example. among children and young people, in fact create greater integration, greater understanding and greater cohesion. This means that, in addition to supporting the different minority cultures and expressions that exist there, we also need to create the meeting places where different cultural expressions and people with different backgrounds actually meet, work together, become familiar and create that community. One of the themes we want to highlight through the Year of Diversity is the theme of freedom of expression. It lies at the heart of any artistic activity a use of expressions and a demand for and a place for freedom of expression. We know that is very relevant in the debates we have had in recent years. We're not going to be culturally relativistic and say that everything is just as good. We have some core values that we think the Norwegian society should be based on no matter what culture you belong to. I think that a year of diversity in 2008 can help draw up those lines.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-07.ana.ud612e377	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-07.ana.ud612e383	I want to grasp what I see as a recurring theme in the comments of the Progress Party in the setting. I think that can be summarised briefly in the following: Globalization is positive, just not here in the country. I think that's wrong. I don't think there's any contradiction between the Norwegian and the multicultural, rather the opposite. I think there is very little doubt that the cultural dimension has meaning in a globalized world. We're not just talking here about entertainment for domestic purposes. We're talking about the importance of the multicultural dimension to our ability to assert ourselves in a globalized world. It's about the cultural area, but it's about, for example, also in the field of business. It also has importance for democracy and inclusion in our own country. So I think the Progress Party is bomming both in relation to globalisation and in relation to the people here at home. The Central Statistical Office shows us that seven out of ten Nordics believe that the majority of immigrants enrich cultural life in Norway, and that proportion is actually increasing from year to year. Set from Immigrant Municipality No. 2 in Norway, Drammen, where immigrants make up 17 pst. of the population, we have from quite a long time ago incorporated the multicultural into the vision of the municipal plan. We have put culture as the driving force in urban development, as one of eight pillars in the municipal plan, and we have a lot of experience in integrating multicultural into forward-looking planning in the municipality. It started with us moving the field of immigrants and refugees from the social sector to the cultural sector in the municipality, precisely in recognition that culture is an excellent building material for bridges between people – it is not suitable at all for building walls between people. When you use culture as an active tool in integration work, you don't even have to have a common language, because you have so many other forms of expression, so you can start by bringing people together immediately within the field of culture. I could say a lot about the multicultural arenas in the Drammen – what's done to work for children and young people, what's happening at our college, and what's happening in our international cultural centre. And speaking of the birthday of the Council of State: I think that no matter what I have to think of giving him a gift later this evening, it cannot measure up with the gift that the Municipality of Drammen received by getting additional millions of dollars in support of the construction of the Union Rockescene/International Cultural Centre, where we are just bringing these elements, the Northmen and the Immigrants, together. I think it's great that we get the year of selection. I report Drammen as a partner in the implementation of that year. Perhaps even by 2008 we have become eight out of ten Nordics who feel that the culture of immigrants enriches Norwegian society. Then we're going to let them cover their wishes to be enriched – and we're going to do that over that year.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-07.ana.ud612e403	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 417]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-07.ana.ud612e419	At the request of the Family and Culture Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. In addition, the President will make suggestions that there will be five replies from the main speakers and members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the president suggests that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. The President sees it as a matter of fact.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-07.ana.ud612e428	In the last year, the social and social consequences of the increase in the number of people with gambling problems have been of great note. This is the starting point for the submitted manager today. An investigation carried out by the MMI in 2005 showed that there was an alarmingly high number of gambling addicts, including among children and young people. Furthermore, it is claimed that nine out of ten revenue bills on the ATMs are put on by people with gambling problems. The proposal refers to studies that show that a total of 40 pst. of those seeking help because of their game problems have had serious suicidal thoughts. Low income is also one of the common to a large part of the game addicts. This tells us something about the fact that even family members, the relatives of the game addicts, get caught up in the edge of the game as addicts. Increasingly more aggressive slot machines and bigger prizes have been something in recent years because more people have had problems. Turnover in the automatic market has increased from DKK 8.5 billion in 2001 to a staggering 27 billion in 2005. This increase was partly due to the decision of the Stortinget in 2003 to grant Norwegian Typing AS a single right to the vending machines. As you know, the decision has subsequently been appealed to the EFTA Court. EFTA's monitoring body, ESA, believes that the Stortinge's decision to create a gambling monopoly under Norwegian Typing is contrary to the Norwegian obligations under the EEA Agreement. It is expected that decisions will be taken in the first part of 2007. The proposers are not satisfied with the current situation and would like to oblige the Government to introduce a national ban on slot machines, so that it can be implemented from January 2007. A further request from the Government to determine how voluntary organisations can receive state support to continue their work, and how to prevent a development towards a black gaming market and increase online gambling. The whole Committee shares the concern about the number of game addicts. With the exception of the representatives from the Progress Party, all of them point out that this was also the background to the Storting decision on a monopoly on the vending machines. At the same time, the Committee points out that the Government has implemented measures to reduce the problem. A seat ban on the vending machines was introduced with effect from 1 July this year. The Lottery Authority’s figures show that the measure has had a beneficial effect. Furthermore, the Government now assesses the night closure of the vending machines as well as dampening measures such as sound and light regulation on the vending machines. At the same time, the government has made it clear that none of the concessions will be extended, and that today's vending machines will be gone during the coming year. It is therefore an important point that the policy area that has been reporting has had significant developments in the last six months, and that, by effective action, the government is likely to have the power to reverse the unfortunate development with a further increase in the number of game addicts. However, the proposals of the Christian People's Party have chosen to break with the broad compromise made by the Stortinget with the 2003 decision on the monopoly of gambling. The progress party also has its own suggestions in the setting, and I expect that the party's representatives will do the right thing for them. The majority of the Committee shall decide to add the text of the minutes. The central party, like the Christian People's Party, has been very busy addressing the problems of gambling, and, together with the other government parties, has been eager to make the government we have today, the government that has done the most recently to reduce the social and social problems that result from gambling problems. We think everything else would have been irresponsible. The effort to prevent game problems has been made in dialogue with the game addicts and their relatives' organisations. This has also been with and open our eye to the great consequences that gambling problems can have for the individual addict. It is not to be expected that the revenue generated by the slot machines has given the voluntary organisations large revenues for non-profit purposes. The large increase in revenue has resulted in higher revenues for organisations with this type of income than initially expected. However, there is no doubt that some organisations have made themselves so dependent on the income of automated machines that adapting operations to a lower level of income will be a challenge. In the opinion of the Centre Party, it is important that organisations now make good use of their time towards summer, in order to adapt to the loss of these revenues. At the same time as organisations actively need to secure other ways to generate income, we, through the Government, will contribute to an increased focus on the voluntary sector of the year to come, and look at how we can best facilitate the strengthening of the voluntary sector in general.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-07.ana.ud612e447	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-07.ana.ud612e450	The case rapporteur represents the Centre Party, which I believe is a supporter of local democracy and local self-government. If you say you are a member of local self-government, you have to expect this to be documented in practical policy. It should then be thought that the proposal No would be supported by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials, the Verification of Credentials, the Verification of Credentials, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, and the Committee on the It would give real local autonomy in this area. It would also reflect the initiatives taken by many rapporteurs and other local politicians in this area. My question to the rapporteur is: I would like to know what reasons the rapporteur seems not to leave this to local administration.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-07.ana.ud612e455	The central party is also occupied by a municipal structure with small municipalities that causes those to make decisions to be close to the decisions in force. This also reduces the distance between municipalities. A system where a number of municipalities have different regimes in this area will not necessarily solve any problems. What we want to do is to allow municipalities to engage in dialogue with the business community and stakeholders, as many municipalities have now done, to work on removing the slot machines and other measures that can reduce gambling dependence.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-07.ana.ud612e460	The Central Party and the Government shall be praised for their intention to remove the automates from 1 July and for the action plan presented by the Bondevik II Government to be followed up when it concerns several of the measures outlined by the Advocate General in his statement, including: This with no seat ban. I have a question for the representative Erling Sande, and it applies to the bingo machines. In a letter in February 2006, the Board of Lotteries and Foundations asked for a ban on bingo machines and referred them to as particularly aggressive, because the winnings are higher than on other slot machines. When one then introduces a seat ban, why in all the world should bingo vending machines be exempted from it? Would you like to wait and see developments? Should one have an opposite burden of proof that one will allow the seat ban to apply to this as well? Why in general have the Government and the Central Party been involved in exempting this type of machine?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-07.ana.ud612e467	The representative, Molvær Grimstad, and I have a lot of the same goals in this case, to reduce the game problems and their scope. When it comes to bingo machines, it is also mentioned in the settings and in letters from the Ministry of Culture. There is an area where you can see if action can be taken. What is a little surprising is the very proposal of the Christian People's Party. Even if you know that the vending machines will fall away from the summer, you have chosen a proposal to present this removal until 1 January, which one knows will cause big problems to organisations. Once again, we share the goal, but I'm surprised that the Christian People's Party is proposing something that will give organisations great challenges and give them much less time for conversion than what the Government has put up with.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-07.ana.ud612e478	I would like to thank the rapporteur for an interesting answer to my previous question. I realized that this was an area that was so important that you could not have different regimes from the municipality to the municipality. However, I also see that the Central Party is behind the policy pursued per year. Today, and in the case of primary schools, in the case of SFOs, and in the case of the provision of alcohol and beer sales, different regimes are supported from the municipality to the municipality in the case of care for the elderly. But you don't want it when it comes to a couple of slot machines or allowing a poker tournament. This says something about what is considered important in local government policy. Care for the elderly and children is a good thing that you can have different regimes, but in this area, it is much more important than older people, children and kindergartens.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-07.ana.ud612e485	The representative Knudsen missed an important shade. In this case, our goal is to define the game problems, and in this way, in our view, different regimes will not solve them from the municipality to the municipality. When it comes to the important services provided by municipalities, such as care for the elderly or schooling, I just want to mention the strengthening this government has done in these areas, which has given older people better care in much of the municipality of Norway and the young a better school. This government has, in the short time she has been in government, done far more than what Knudsen's party had in the budgetary cooperation it had with the previous government.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-07.ana.ud612e492	I like Erling Sande and the Center Party's commitment when it comes to the gambling addicts and it's about fighting the problems that the game addicts have. Then the Christian People's Party presents its Document No. Eight proposals in May of this year, the first reactions of the Government were negative to have this implemented, because Norway's case of what was going to happen to the monopoly system was before the EFTA Court. We saw that there was an explosion in developments in the gaming market, and that something had to be done quickly. I'm glad that the pressure that has been from both game addicts and from opinion has led to the government taking hold faster than they might otherwise have done. We're following up on the proposal we've been making, it's been a long time since it came. When it comes to voluntary teams and organisations, we have said that the government must work in parallel. It's not that we kind of want to repel their situation, but in our proposals that are being discussed today, we've taken care of both sides.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-07.ana.ud612e502	I'm glad to hear what Molvær Grimstad says, that one understands the situation of volunteer organizations. The voluntary organisations are now largely in the process of budgeting for the next year – they may be finished – and have spent the budgets on the government's signal. And it's probably not going to happen that some of them would have a big problem if they had to adapt to another solution now. I have no idea that this has been a unique demand from the game addicts, or from organizations to the relatives of the game addicts. Let me say this: I am glad that the representative Molvær Grimstad is at least remarkable at the position of the voluntary organisations.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-07.ana.ud612e509	No more words have been asked for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-07.ana.ud612e512	I think it -- at least with a few exceptions -- is so that most people are a few in the case of slot machines and a new regime for these machines. The size has dealt with matters several times, and there is a broad majority that has concurred on the realities of what should be the policy when it comes to slot machines. On the basis of a social policy basis, there is agreement to reduce the number of those who are game addicts or who develop the dependence of machines – with the consequences for individuals, for families, for the environment – and to gain better control of the automatic market. Stortinget's decision that Norsk Typing would get a single right on the operation of vending machines has not been accepted until now. The case has been brought before several courts, and now it is before the EFTA Court. From there we can expect to get a clarification in the first six months of next year. I'm glad that, until it's done, there's been a large majority on the Grand Council, there's a government and a state council that can do it to reduce social problems, and to achieve its goals as quickly as possible. The measures implemented up to now include: The ban on seats proves to work well and several other measures are under assessment and will be proposed. At the same time, the Council of State has given a very clear answer to what happens to today's automatic regime when the concessions expire next year. It should be noted that, no matter what the outcome of the EFTA Court, there will be major changes to the system we know today, and today's machines will be gone next year. In addition, the Government is under the supervision of developments in the use of other games, whether they are games on mobile phones, games on the Internet or others. Therefore, the Government is better off than if one had done as the proposers would have liked. Starting a legal work now, well out in November, with the time that such work would take, and with the work it would entail, and assuming that the ban would be effective from 1 January next year, would not be a good solution. It is much better with the scheme chosen by the Government, where one implements the measures it has taken, continuously assesses other measures and announces that today’s concessions are not being continued. Then one, as we see it, will do what I think is the purpose of the proposers, and that today's government party pressed for in the previous magnificence period, when the matter was being dealt with, simply to fight against the problems that gambling addiction brings with it, and one will carry out it a broad majority on the Storting has previously had as its goal. In the Labour Party we are therefore – perhaps not so surprising – well satisfied with the way the Government and the Government handle the matter. We think it's the best way to get the plural to carry out its wishes and objectives in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-07.ana.ud612e533	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-07.ana.ud612e536	A key question of implementing this reform as the Workers' Party will is how to replace the revenue generated by volunteering, cultural life and sport in this area. There are thousands of teams and associations that have had good income in this area and that will now be struggling in the future. The government has notified a volunteer message and a volunteer register, without it being clear to us what it will mean. There is no activity based on investigations, records and stockpiling messages, and the number of sausages, waffles and quotas that can be converted into a union is limited. In the previous case we were told that we should strengthen the multicultural, but we have not heard anything about what to do about sport, corps, choir, health, etc. What will be done in this area in concrete terms?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-07.ana.ud612e545	It is such that a lot of voluntary organisations say that the revenue they have received from slot machines is no longer the income they want. They're transforming their business, they're adapting to other economic frameworks, given that revenue based on gambling isn't income they want. So it's like, as the representative is clearly aware, that the government is investing a lot on volunteering, on the voluntary sector. We are in the process of doing very important work, both in the form of a voluntary register and a voluntary alert, and we are working on a permanent system of VAT compensation. The changes made in the key when the case was being dealt with in 2003 provided answers to the distribution profile of the excess in Norwegian Typing, and the one-right model balances the conflicting perspective between the revenues of the voluntary sector and the social problems that these machines have caused. So the representative can take it easy. We are very observant of the voluntary sector and the revenue for the voluntary sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-07.ana.ud612e552	I have a question for the representative Espen Johnsen, whether he can give a better answer on behalf of the Labour Party to what is the basis for exempting the bingo machines from the currently introduced seat ban. What does the Workers' Party think when one has said that from July 1st next year – something that I think is very positive – the bingo machines will also be removed, or does one see that there can also make exceptions?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-07.ana.ud612e557	It is such that the measures we are now implementing are being implemented pending a final judgment in the EFTA Court. There are important measures, which have so far been shown to have an effect on the objective of the model adopted by the Stortinget, namely reducing the number of game addicts and the social problems they bring with them and getting better control on the automatic market. It is then about making all the measures that one assesses in that context, and on which the seat ban is a good example, that it has the effect of reducing social problems. If it's such that many social problems are developed related to gambling dependence in connection with bingo machines, then it's natural to assess it. If it is not the case that bingo vending machines bring with them problems of gambling dependence, then one should wait to decide on bingo vending machines until one has received the final judgment of the EFTA Court.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-07.ana.ud612e564	This whole debate is focused on the social problems, and that's probably good reason. However, there is a lack of an overall approach, or a comprehensive guide to how voluntary organisations will receive income in the future. A marketing law has now also been announced, which, through some measures, will also limit the scope of voluntary organisations. In the case of games, we've heard that you're looking at a ban, or at least that the concessions go out, after July 1st next year. How does the Labour Party actually think that voluntary organisations are going to make money, and what areas do you think they are going to be? This will, for example: could mean looking a little bit closer at the position of Norwegian Typing and perhaps transferring some of the areas that Norwegian Typing currently dominates to the voluntary organisations?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-07.ana.ud612e571	As I said in a previous answer, the Government and the majority of the population are very concerned about the relationship of voluntary organizations. We are continuously working to improve the situation of voluntary activity, of voluntary organisations, with a voluntary register, with a permanent system of VAT compensation, with a notice of voluntary action addressing these questions. In the vote, the Committee asks – and I think it is unanimous – that the Government prepares a strategy to meet the voluntary objectives of its economy. There is something I know that the Government – it can confirm afterwards – is very busy. Then it is that when the one-rights model was introduced, it was to take care of the voluntary purposes, precisely through the fact that the excess from Norsk Typing more would come to the attention of the social and humanitarian organizations.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-07.ana.ud612e576	It was an interesting answer I got. Among other things, reference to VAT compensation. From Volunteering Norway it is estimated to be about One billion kroner. In the case of tipping agents, it can best be hoped that redistributions and increases in this area will range from 800 million. NOK 1 billion, while the revenues generated by the voluntary sector in this area are estimated at a total of DKK 8 billion to DKK 11 billion, i.e. about a total transport budget for Norway in one year. So here we are missing 7–8–9–10 billion, and I ask that the representative of the Workers' Party confirm that someone will actually notice this reduction, which is quite formidable, and that it's sport, it's corps, it's health, it's LHL, it's Red Cross, it's Blind Alliance, etc.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-07.ana.ud612e584	The organisations to which the representative has now referred are organisations that have largely joined the scheme chosen by a broad majority on Stortinget for a vending machine scheme, where Norsk Typing would have a monopoly on the operation of vending machines. Yes, it's true, as the representative says, that someone will notice that there are changes in the automatic market. Those who want to notice it are those who are currently struggling with major social problems because, for one reason or another, they have a dependency on the machines, those who spend much of their income on automatics involuntarily, and who experience a difficult situation for themselves, for their families, for everyone around them. They will notice the difference when a broad majority here at Stortinget implements the policy they have adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-07.ana.ud612e591	No more words have been asked for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-07.ana.ud612e594	It is remarkable that the proposers want a ban on slot machines, when it is no more than a year since their own Cultural State Council wanted a monopoly on machines operated by Norsk Typing. 10 000 vending machines thought the Christian People's Party was completely in order a year ago, and now you want a ban. I think this might get a little confusing. And when we see what measures the government has taken, it is not particularly impressive either. The rapporteur said that the measures with a ban on notes and, where appropriate, a ban on gambling between 1 p.m. 24 and 24 o'clock. 07, etc. had an effect. It is clear that these have an effect. This was proposed by the industry itself in 2003. But there was no then, and there is no interest or willingness in the current government to look at compromises that can ensure that voluntary Norway has a certain room for freedom of action. The Progress Party has noticed that it also wants to regulate online games and mobile games. It might have been a good idea to get control of the total gaming market, but at least it is per. Today, it is very difficult to implement – partly because it interferes with the individual’s right to dispose of their own money, partly because today technology has come so far that those who make a lot of money at this international level are sure to find new ways to avoid such regulation. It is also a little incomprehensible to me that the proposers are talking about the need for non-governmental organisations to receive money from the state. This can be very expensive. If all those who today receive income from vending machines, or those who received income from vending machines in 2003, receive similar support from the state, it will cost the country several billions. It did not have the Council of State of the Christian People's Party in 2003, and it is very strange that they want this today. I could actually be tempted to ask how you think you're going to finance all these voluntary organizations that the Christian People's Party is talking so much about, if there's a total ban. And which of the volunteer organizations is going to get this money? Is it the local football clubs that make a great effort for children and young people in the local community? Or are it the big, heavy organizations that have been feeding on their own vending machines for years? And is it everyone who has had income from slot machines, or is it just a few? That being said, the Progress Party is very concerned about all those who play from farm and land, which brings with it human tragedies. As early as 2003, the Progress Party actually proposed that we use 1 pst. of the surplus of games for research and treatment of gambling addicts. But we didn't get any support at the time, even though the knowledge of the cause of gambling addiction as such is still deficient. We want restrictions on the slot machine market, but we do not want the introduction of monopolies. We do not want prohibition either. It is important that restrictions are imposed because it counteracts gambling dependence, not because some politicians have a need for labelling. So it's okay that it comes out clearly what the motives of the individual games are, and it's much more neat to call a spade a spade rather than pushing Norsk Tipping and others in front of them, when the subject is a slot machine ban. The Progress Party believes in a dialogue between industry, voluntary Norway and the Council of State, therefore our proposal for a national compromise. We also believe that there should be a more local management of the conditions surrounding vending machines, casinos, etc. Therefore, the Progress Party proposes that the Government submit a case that can give the municipality the right to decide the rules for gambling about money. I have thus taken up our proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-07.ana.ud612e613	The representative, Karin S. Woldseth, has drawn up the proposals she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-07.ana.ud612e618	I record that throughout the whole process of this case, the Progress Party has been very reserved to support proposals for restrictions on slot machines, and it is despite the fact that we have been confirmed by both organisations and individuals at several hearings that this type of game leads to enormous economic and social problems. Then I wonder: is it that the Progress Party does not take on board the hard facts about how bad the problem is, and therefore does it not want to support the proposed restrictions, nor does it want a ban?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-07.ana.ud612e625	Of course, the Progress Party is taking things over. That's exactly why we made a proposal to use 1 pst. of the surplus of games for research and treatment of gambling addicts. But we don't believe in monopoly. That's the difference. For those who remember history, the industry itself came in 2003 with ten points of things they themselves could do, which had been as effective as what the Council of State and the sitting government do today. Yes, we take it over, but we don't believe in monopoly.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-07.ana.ud612e634	Two questions to the representative Karin S. Woldseth: The party of progress is, like everyone else in this room, occupied by Freedom Norway, and the conditions there. But the Progress Party really believes that it is acceptable to operate health, sports, etc. on the misery of others? That's the one question. The second question: It is asked in its observations that the Government initiates a more comprehensive research study in the field, so that it can be established whether gambling addiction is a symptom of other mental problems. Clearly, gambling addiction poses different mental problems in many fields. But if you find out that this is a symptom of mental problems, what will the Progress Party do with it? Wouldn't these vending machines be equally tragic?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-07.ana.ud612e643	When it comes to the first question, if we think it's okay to be able to look at the misery of others, that's not the case. We also find it unthinkable to set up groups against each other in the way that the representative from SV does. This is precisely why we want an increase in bet and treatment, as well as other existing instruments — one can, for example, bet and treatment. remove the sound, close the games at night, etc. There are possibilities. But it's an incredibly large corps of volunteers out there who actually depend on this money. That's why we have to have more thoughts in our head at once, we have to be solution-oriented and not problem-oriented all the time.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-07.ana.ud612e650	The President will ask that the replicants stand at the pulpit until the answer is given.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-07.ana.ud612e653	I'm not surprised by the Progress Party's individual comments here, but some of them surprise me very much in relation to what the representative Karin S. Woldseth has been talking about. This is a note that the Progress Party is not in, where one 'have noticed that many municipalities have taken local action to remove the slots and help the game addicts and their relatives. This is positive’. This is an entire committee, apart from the Progress Party and the Right, on. Does not the representative Woldseth think it is positive that some municipalities have actually taken hold of the help of the game addicts? When the Progress Party says that they believe that people with game dependency will seek out other arenas to end their addiction, I ask: Has the Progress Party listened to people who are game addicts, how they feel, and how they have arisen? We've heard a lot of strong stories, but one believes that if one removes the machines, that doesn't solve the problem too many.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-07.ana.ud612e670	On the first question – on the municipalities – we do not want a ban in the municipalities. That is why we have our own proposal, which clearly says what we think about the municipalities: it has to be up to the individual municipality. We think that by going into a comment like this, we have – with the exception of the Right Party and the Advance Party – already placed some leadership in front of the municipalities saying that it was very good that you were banned. That's not what we want. We want this to be up to each municipality to do something about.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-07.ana.ud612e676	I have two questions for the representative from the Progress Party. The first is that one in the configuration and second time in the argument underlines that one is critical to restrictions because people with game dependencies are looking for other venues. Now the Lottery Authority reports that after the seat ban was introduced, this has not happened. What other science or knowledge does the Progress Party have to do with this argument? That's one question. Woldseth is probably deeply concerned about the volunteer organizations' economy. The Progress Party was in the hands of the previous government parties to cut support for both study associations, Freefonds and local and regional cultural buildings above the State budget – and other important measures for the voluntary sector. Is it true that the Progress Party now has a new line of voluntary policy and now actively wants to support the voluntary organisations above the State budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-07.ana.ud612e685	I guess it's something special to ask the Progress Party if we want to back up on the voluntary sector, once we've been fighting their fight every year, especially from this pulpit. We get to put it on the quota for a lack of history from Stortinget. In the case of gambling-dependent other arenas and research, it is quite obvious that those who are drawn against games, playing and excitement, will clearly go to other arenas. The reason why we're bringing this up again now is that there's absolutely no research on it. We want to allocate money, through the surplus, to research in the field. It does not think that there is one man in Norway who writes one book about it, and that it is our textbook in this. That's not enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-07.ana.ud612e692	We take it in, says the representative Woldseth. It is good that things have started to change a little, but it has not been so long since the representatives of the Progress Party from the pulpit in the Grand Duchy referred to gambling addiction as ‘the so-called problem’. Today we hear that they say that there is a lot of evidence that legal regulation will hardly be able to keep up with technological developments in the fight against online gambling. Then I ask, can't it be that those who work to prevent online gambling can also take advantage of technological developments? While you think it doesn't help, we see that the gaming companies on the New York Stock Exchange lost up to 80 pst. in the course of a day, so there are at least some people who have registered that something might happen. The Progress Party wants real liberalisation, and they want local control over vending machines, casinos and card games about money. Does the representative Woldseth think that these are suitable tools in the fight against gambling problems?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-07.ana.ud612e701	To the last, no, but we have faith that individual municipalities and local politicians can find answers to this themselves, and say yes or no to whether they want it. With regard to ‘the so-called problem’, I think it is quite special that the representative Bergo refers to it, when we, as the only party in this case, suggested that we give 1 pst in 2003. of the surplus of games for research and treatment of gambling addicts. We did not receive support for our proposal at the time. I think we may have recognised it – we recognised it in 2003, and we recognise it today – that we have gambling addicts, but we do not need a monopoly or a total ban on machines for that reason.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-07.ana.ud612e711	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-07.ana.ud612e714	The right is on the solution that brought together a broad majority in the previous period. We believe that the system we came up with then, the monopoly system with Norwegian Typing, provided a balanced and useful – perhaps not optimal but useful – solution in relation to a very complex and very complex question. We also notice in retrospect that the tools put in by the Government to mitigate gambling dependence will later work. We have in the future got quite a number of good figures that games on automatics are going down. Another thing is if we're completely able here to keep the perspective. It is clear that the slot machines became a very unfortunate growth that it was necessary to grab hold of and do something with. But from there to run a race against – I would almost say – any game and any opportunity to make money on this is perhaps something you should approach with a little bit more care than what this hall now expresses. There has been a good dialogue with the large voluntary organisations. They accepted the solution we provided with Norwegian Typing – at least to a significant extent they did, despite the fact that it led to a huge drop in income for them. Now, the question is, if we're moving towards a regime that might mean that the slot machines are going to disappear completely, if it's all of a sudden much bigger and more dramatic perspectives we have in front of us. It will then be necessary to make some comprehensive new assessments of what Norwegian gambling policy should be. It's not that we can depreciate games as the source of revenue for the voluntary organizations. I don't think any government will be able to compensate for that, even to a small extent. Then there's a question about what games we can imagine to be the volunteer organizations' arena. Should we look again at the role of Norwegian Typing and the areas that Norwegian Typing currently dominates? Is it reasonable that Norwegian Tipping's revenues, which are largely revenues enjoyed by the State, should be protected, while the parts on which the voluntary organisations are to make money should be the ones that will take the entire decline in revenue? I think that's something we need to review. We are following the government's work in game policy, but we are critically following the extent to which the government actually manages to maintain the revenues of voluntary organisations, in a balance between the interests to be reasonably addressed in the social policy area. Right wants us to go into a process where we're looking at the whole game field again. We see a future and hope that the justices that now stand before the courts will lead us to implement the scheme that we originally put up to. There is still much to suggest that revenue will be significantly lower. I think, regardless of the outcome here, that it will be necessary to look at the whole field of games, in order to create a future basis for the voluntary organisations, with framework conditions they can live with over time. The largest voluntary organisations have taken on board the reduction of revenue. They do what they have been encouraged to do in terms of making provisions for the additional income that has been in existence now. But there's a difference between that and losing this base in total. And when we see it in the context of other interventions that come, among other things. with regard to the marketing law, there is every reason to be concerned and there is every reason to understand the expressed uncertainty of voluntary organisations about their future revenues.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-07.ana.ud612e725	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-07.ana.ud612e728	When the one-right model was attached in Stortinget, it was among other things. in order to obtain better control of the automatic market, one with the State as the only owner would be able to take action more quickly if one saw an undesirable development in the automated business. Now we look at the setting that Right together with the Progress Party and the Left, the municipalities themselves want to set up the machines. So you might have a situation where you have 430 different ways to set up your automatic machines. It's probably not going to make it very monotonous, and it's not going to make it very clear. My question to the Right is therefore: Will it not be possible to undermine the foundation of the Right itself used – together with a broad number of people – when a single-law model, simply to get better control and speed up the deployment of measures?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-07.ana.ud612e735	The central point at that time was the number of slot machines and the design of the slot machines themselves. Later we have seen that some municipalities have wanted further intensifications, for example. in the case of location. In fact, we believe that municipalities should be able to decide freely. We have such great confidence in local government representatives around our country that we have no concern about that flexibility. On the contrary, it is one of many things, because if we are to have a living local democracy, we must actually have confidence in the local politicians. It is in many areas that we have to give a vote of confidence in decisions that can be taken. This is one of them. I think there can be a lot of good debates about games in local government in the wake of such a question.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-07.ana.ud612e742	I am very pleased with the contribution from the Thommessen, where he confirms that they are behind the agreement we made in the previous period. I think that's reassuring. I also respect the fact that they stand by the proposal on the role of Norwegian Tipping in this. We know that this was not a simple matter for the Right. But then they take the game problem so seriously that they still stand by it, I find it reassuring. The representative Thommess didn't mention in his post was online games, which have blossomed, perhaps after we made the deal. Now we know that it's not the same people who go to the computers, but we know that this will grow fast and become a major problem. In the United States, the Senate has now banned and regulates this. Will Thommesser, if possible, participate in a similar regulation in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-07.ana.ud612e751	There is a question to the right to which a lot has not taken a final decision – to what extent or on what basis such restrictions are to be imposed. A lot of people say it might have something to do with it, but it'll be important that you have real restrictions that make you get there. It's an important part of the entire balancing process that the game discussion is about, as I see it. It is important that we have Norwegian actors who can communicate with from Norwegian reality and who are present in the markets. If you remove them unilaterally, while not being able to stop the use, you really just push the gambling addicts and push the revenue out to international actors, with whom we do not communicate. That would be a bad solution. This will be part of the assessment that I think we have to make in such a context.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-07.ana.ud612e757	Since Stortinget adopted the monopoly system for Norwegian Typing, we have seen that turnover has risen dramatically when it comes to automatic gambling. On the right, there's a spokesman in The Drama, who's been very offensive to the game addicts and their problems. It's very positive. Therefore I wondered if there was an accident when the Right was not in the note, which I also asked the Advance Party, where a plurality, "all the non-participating members of the Progress Party and the Right have noticed that many municipalities have taken local action to remove the slots and help the game addicts and their relatives. This is positive’. I'll believe, as I know Right when it's about this engagement, that they would think that this is positive and ending up about. So I have a question: Since the government has said that the machines that are, will not be given an extension of the concession beyond 1 July 2007, will Right then provide its support for it at a later date, even if they have not notified it in the setting?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-07.ana.ud612e769	The comment to which the representative Molvær Grimstad refers must be seen in the context of the above remark – or perhaps below – I do not remember correctly – where we open the way for the municipalities to decide on their own deployment. It is clear that it is positive in itself to combat gambling addiction, but we thought it was a lead in that comment, and would rather have the open approach given by the other comment, namely that the municipalities – regardless of what is positive or negative, or what is the goal or not the goal of what they want to do – can place them freely. In terms of future bans on slot machines, we're sceptical about it. We hope that the solution to Norwegian Typing can be implemented. If not, we'll be free on that question.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-07.ana.ud612e776	On the right is the broad solution from the previous period, but my comment goes on the following: Once again, we see that in a debate in this Chamber, one has to take into account the obligations of the EEA Agreement, even if we are debating issues in which, according to the view of the Central Party, national decisions are to be clear. For the Central Party, it's a crossroads of thought that ESA might prevent us from implementing a policy that a plurality in this hall thinks is the right one. This time it is about important measures to limit gambling dependence, and my question is the following: Does the representative Thommes not see that this is helping to weaken the power we have in this room, in matters where we are looking for good solutions for the Norwegian people?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-07.ana.ud612e783	I think the biggest weakness of this hall is that it's not interfering with the processes that are just adding these leaders. Because we are outside the EU, we are much weaker when it comes to influencing the major international processes, preferably in Europe, which, in fact, independently of this particular case, will reflect on what position we want to take on the various questions, and for example. to this question. If we had been within the EU, we would have had a completely different starting point to promote our views and work for a more restrictive gambling policy, and we would have had good alliance partners in several of the other Nordic countries. This does not just apply to this monopoly, it applies in a wide range of cases.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-07.ana.ud612e788	No more words have been asked for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-07.ana.ud612e791	I'm sorry I left the crime scene too early, in the line change with the representative Woldseth – I thought I was standing up here. I would like to start by saying: A representative from the Progress Party says that I set weak groups against each other. I mean quite clearly that I don't. I'm actually thinking more thoughts at once. What it's about now is that there's a significant increase in the number of people who are addicted to gambling. A 2005 MMI report shows that around 71 000 people have been assessed as dependants and a further 133 000 are at risk. Those are the people I'm talking about here today, from SV's point of view. In addition to network games and mobile games, slot machines are considered to be the most addictive. The Nordics played for approx. 27 billion dollars last year. In the same survey, it is estimated that nine out of ten dollars are spent on vending machines, coming from people with game problems – nine out of ten dollars! Gambling addiction can lead to serious mental problems and to social problems, and of course it has major economic consequences for those involved and its relatives. The most serious thing, I think, is that gambling addiction also affects children and young people to a large extent. This is so serious that it makes it absolutely necessary to take action. The resistance to market regulation is, of course, great, and the players are very strong. The industry and the contractors receive a total of approx. 60 pst. of the surplus. It's totally unreasonable! It is a major challenge that there are many good purposes that today receive income from the ATMs, and it is also a major challenge that many have made themselves dependent on these revenues in a very short time. I believe that it has become an easy way to obtain large revenues. This government has said that we need a volunteer message, we need a volunteer register, and we need to look at a lasting VAT compensation. It's not that we don't want to take care of Freedom Norway – we're quite clear on that. We have strengthened volunteering in many areas, but volunteers also have a responsibility to look around for other means of income. In Sweden, for example, revenues from selling plastic bags in all grocery stores, and that is an excellent way to make money. It is also the case, I believe, that several of the things run by volunteers should be supported by other departments, for example. in the case of the bite of health. In many areas, we can see that volunteers, especially women, have been in and out for many years. I think of crisis centres, health centres, etc., where the public has gone in and taken over part of the business. I think that's absolutely necessary now that we're going through Freedom Norway. Several organisations have managed to obtain income other than vending machines. They do not want that kind of income. Among other things, this concerns the Church's Bymission, the Church's Emergency Aid, the Salvation Army, the Church's Social Service, the Blue Cross, the Red Children, Plan Norway, etc. What I think is sad, is that some other major players in the volunteer sector do not take into account how serious this is, and do the same. SV is very pleased with the measures already taken in the fight against gambling addiction, such as the ban on the use of banknotes in the vending machines, which was introduced on 1 July 2006. I must say I am very surprised and satisfied that this has worked as well as it has done. One also assesses the night-time closure of vending machines, between 2 p.m. and 4 p.m. 24 and 24 o'clock. 07. It's now out at the hearing. The ban will affect 2 500 vending machines located at 24-hour service stations, long-distance restaurants and other night-free areas. The proposal for the introduction of a specific sectoral tax is also out for consultation. The number from the dependants 'guide shows that the full 90 pst. by those who contact, autoplay as their main problem. That's why it's important that that's what we're doing. Finally, I would like to say that losing Norway to the EFTA Court, SV will see it as natural and necessary to consider a total ban on gambling that affects gambling addiction.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-07.ana.ud612e815	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-07.ana.ud612e818	I heard the speaker say the volunteers have done a great job. Yes, some of the reasons why the volunteers have been able to do this great effort are precisely that they have had these small incomes, which have given them the opportunity to do the great job of helping others. The proposal now before us, and the ban that comes from 1 July 2007, will actually exclude many children and young people from the possibility of being allowed to participate in voluntary activities and to participate in sporting and cultural activities, because the price is now so high that many families can no longer afford to pay the costs. Will SV ensure that the voluntary teams are compensated for the income they now lose and that they are fully compensated when the ban enters into force on 1 July 2007?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-07.ana.ud612e827	I fully agree with the issue raised by the Progress Party here. I told you in my post that Freedom Norway has gained formidablely increased revenues in a very, very short time by having slots that have been very aggressive. We've said that we need a volunteer message, we need to go through Freedom Norway, we need a volunteer register, and we need a VAT compensation. The voluntary organisations also need to look at their own income base, alongside strengthening Freedom Norway in different areas. It's not like you're dependent on automatic games like this. There are many of the large organisations that do humanitarian work, health work, and child and youth work that actually go out and say that they don't want to drive the misery of others.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-07.ana.ud612e832	First of all, I'd like to pay tribute to S.B. because they've been a party that's had an offensive policy, and maybe they've been the ones that's gone the farthest when there's restrictions on the gambling market in Norway. Now his SV is in government and is in charge of the policy that comes from there. What the government has said about removing the vending machines from 1 July 2007 is very positive, and we are very pleased about that. At the same time, when some restrictions, such as: to use seats on vending machines, the bingo machines are not allowed. I have previously registered that SV has expressed itself critically about it, and I wonder what SV can do to ensure that the seat ban also applies to the bingo machines.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-07.ana.ud612e840	It's clear that we've been critical of the bingo machines, and we're still. We have always said that we need to have a review of this market. We have to be drivers all the way to regulate this market. That's what you're doing now by Norwegian Typing entering and regulating this market. So it is going to be very important both for the measures we are taking in relation to those who are addicted to gambling, for the prevention measures and treatment that are being put in place, and for this to be followed closely. That's where we'll be pushers. It is quite clear, as the Christian People's Party here says, that it was our proposal in the previous period that the former Minister of Culture took hold of this, and that the Stortinge took the decisions that are now being taken. That is what we are now dealing with, and then the matter has to be followed.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-07.ana.ud612e847	Now we have heard the representative from SV three times praise Norsk Tipping. Now there are 10,000 vending machines in stock. It's a little off the hook when you say on the one hand how important it is to ban machines, while at the same time pricing the 10,000 vending machines that are in stock for Norwegian Typing. I must then be allowed to ask the representative Hansen: Think SV that Norsk Tipping will not have any profit on his automatic operation, as one speaks so critically about that entrepreneurs and the industry itself will keep 60 pst.? Do you actually think that everything Norwegian Typing is going to take on automatic games, is going to go to the volunteer teams and organizations?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-07.ana.ud612e854	No, I don't think there's going to be any surplus on this as well that goes to Norwegian Typing. But what's going on is that it's regulated. It's actually so that if I have asthma, I don't go into a place where it smokes. It should not be the case that there should be machines and scratches outside of Rema 1000, so that you are irritated to play on that machine when you are also under 18 years old. What the Stortinget has decided is the case. That is what we are now discussing here today. We might get a completely different situation if we don't get along. Then you have to assess a monopoly, as I have said. But it's clear that regulating the market and that more of the profits go back to Freedom Norway is what's important. In fact, I do not understand that it is possible to accept from the Progress Party that such a large amount of profit goes back to those who own the machines, rather than to Freedom Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-07.ana.ud612e861	In the previous reply to the signed talk, they warmly spoke about the large organizations. I want to bring it down a little bit to what this is actually about, someone that this proposal really wants to hit, the small teams and associations that run locally. To take an example, we have a sports team that loses 500,000 kroner of their income, which will frustrate the offer. This will largely go beyond the parallel, and not the professional part, because it is often where you can get other types of income. I'm a little excited about what the representative Molvær will say to the over 6,800 people in the sports community in Porsgroen who will get an increase of 550 kroner per person. the head to take into account the reduction in the revenue of these organisations.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-07.ana.ud612e870	I just want to point out that my name is Hansen, not Molvær. It is also not my proposal that is on the table here, it is the proposal of the Christian People's Party. But it is clear that I have responded to what the representative asks me about, because with a regulation and with a greater profit going back to Voluntary Norway, you should not lose NOK 500,000. It is also the case that organisations actually have to find other means of income, besides going through Freedom Norway and seeing where we can put the impact. To me, it is totally unacceptable – and I do not really understand that the Progress Party can stand here and defend it – that one's bread is the death of the other.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-07.ana.ud612e877	The representative Hansen says she thinks it's amazing that we accept that the owners take 60 pst. It could be very interesting to hear what the representative thinks Norsk Typing is going to take. Then the representative says that she thinks that a much larger proportion of the profits should go to voluntary Norway. It gets a little weird for me, because isn't it that the representative really wants a larger part of the profit to actually go back to those who play, so that they don't play from the farm and land? Now they're going to be allowed to play on 10,000 vending machines, we're going to have the same amount of turnover, but a greater share is going to go to volunteer teams and organisations. I don't fully understand the sequence of thoughts about SV here.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-07.ana.ud612e884	It's actually that it's not illegal to play in this country. The background to the proposal we made in the previous period was that we want to regulate the market and make it less accessible, simply, and protect more. I believe that what we did in the big decision that was taken in the last period, to which everyone, except the Progress Party, joined, was simply to move these machines elsewhere under regulated conditions. I say it again: if it is not possible to get a pass on this and for the case that is now here, we have to consider a total ban, because these machines are so aggressive. Indeed, developments in this gaming market have made it necessary for us to implement these measures, and the worst thing for me is that this affects children and young people to a large extent, both with suicide and various other things.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-07.ana.ud612e891	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-07.ana.ud612e894	The Christian People's Party has for a long time been busy with problems related to slot machines. For this reason, the Bondevik II Government proposes that Norwegian Typing should be given a single right to drive slot machines, which the Stortinget joined in 2003. So we know the story of how difficult it would have been to get this done, with one case after another, and that Norway has been sued before the EFTA Court. At the same time, the turnover of the Norwegian automatic market has grown from DKK 8.5 billion in 2001 to NOK 27 billion in 2005. A 2005 MMI study shows that 71 000 people have been rated as gambling addicts and 130,000 additional people are at risk. That is exactly why the Christian People's Party has gone into a process. We have our side and our fronts and we have proposals for a monopoly system. If we had implemented the scheme as we would have implemented it, the problem of gambling dependence would be significantly less than it has been at this time, when one hears that turnover has increased from DKK 8.5 billion in 2001 to NOK 27 billion in 2005. That's why we've changed course. In fact, based on the overall situation and the extent to which the game problem has grown up, we have said that we recognize that the time now might be in place to ban the machines, to get rid of a big problem. I have received many messages from individuals who have played from work and home. I have spoken to people who would go to the store to shop for food and drink, but who have come out again without both food and drink and money because the slot machine had stood there blinking against them, and they had not been able to pass by. I've heard about families that have gone into resolution, and I've heard about a number of social problems that result from game dependency. It's a great defeat for those who experience this, and many of these have been tough and shared the stories with us. This has made a deep impression on the Christian People's Party, so deeply that we see that new tools are needed to bring some of these problems to life. So maybe some people will owe us for changing their positions. But I would also say: yes, we have changed our position, and that is also the law of politics. There's a lot of people who have suffered because of gambling addiction, both those that apply to them, and the environment. Selected Response City Haugland presented an action plan against gambling dependence before the Bondevik II government went off. I am pleased that the Stoltenberg Government has now implemented several points from that action plan, including: that with no seat ban, which we can already see now the effect of when it applies to turnover. That's good. The Christian People's Party will also give tribute to the Government to want to remove the automatons from July 1, even if we would prefer to see the game addicts enjoy an automatic Norway in the New Year. I do not understand that the seat ban on bingo machines has not become active. Had the monopoly arrangements been put in place, the political parties would not have had the possibility of income from machines. But since one has not been able to implement this scheme, they have the possibility to do so today. I think that a really should have a scheme where the political parties didn't have the opportunity to get income from machines. There's been a lot of talk about voluntary teams and organizations and their incomes. The Christian People's Party is currently occupied by the voluntary sector. But when we see how big a social problem dependency is, we've said that we're forced to do something about it. The level of revenue currently generated and the organisations will have the same – and that is what they are for – will be lower. But we have said that one should have a review of the income base of voluntary teams and organisations and be involved in and volunteering. When this applies to the tasks of, for example: The Cancer Association, the National Association of Heart and Pulmonary Disease or the Rescue Company, are also tasks that they carry out where it would be natural for them to receive a significantly larger contribution from the State for, for example: cancer research. The cancer unit is responsible for most of the cancer research, so the state should be more involved. This is why it is important for the Government to review all these measures. Finally, I would like to make the proposal that we have in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-07.ana.ud612e922	The representative May-Helen Molvær Grimstad has taken up the proposal to which she referred. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-07.ana.ud612e927	Through the former government council elected City of Reply Haugland must take responsibility for the thousands of organizations that in the future will labor economically and have to put down business and activity, among others. for the benefit of children and young people. I can't help thinking that the strong views of the Christian People's Party in this matter have a connection with the belief that gambling is a sin. But I'll leave it. My question is, couldn't it be an idea to go for the proposals of the Progress Party to let local democracy decide in this area? Even the Christian People's Party – I have understood – has accepted that getting a total ban on alcohol is not realistic, but that it is better to have an orderly relationship with municipal governance.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-07.ana.ud612e935	It's too bad with games! Now, in a way, the representative starts off in a kind of unaccountable galley. What the Christian People's Party is busy about is that we should have a good society for children and young people to live in and grow up in. In other words, the Progress Party wishes to liberalise this policy. They want them to have casinos, if they want casinos, if they want them, and if they want money card games, they want it. They want a development that will give you more money. But then listen to the game addicts! If they don't want to listen to the Christian People's Party, it's okay. But we want a society where we have a more restrictive policy in this area, because we have listened to the recordings and the views we have received. I could really wish that the Progress Party had also done so.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-07.ana.ud612e942	I feel the need to get clarity on something. I criticized the Christian People's Party for proposing this ban from 1 January. Then the Christian People’s Party reiterated that the proposal was being made this summer. Since a number of important actions have been taken, and therefore the need was not the same, and one also understood that the voluntary organisations were concerned about it. But anyway, the proposals we are voting on in this Chamber today were put forward by the representative of the Christian People's Party, where one of them is just going to be removed from 1 January. My question then has to be: Isn't Molvær Grimstad not concerned with the feedback that comes from the voluntary organizations if this proposal were to get multiples, and one then got rid of these income sources long before the organizations had figured it out?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-07.ana.ud612e951	What I meant was that from the Christian People's Party's side we produced this Document No. The 8th proposal in May. We had hoped that we could get connected to it. Then we figured that the government would have worked in parallel with all of these four measures. So we are proposing that we want this ban, and now we have come out in November, so time is running out. But if the government had taken this job seriously, they would have seen these four proposals in context, and one had also worked with compensation arrangements for the volunteer teams and organizations. One had not only taken this one point, that a ban was imposed on the machines next year, but that one had done something with the volunteer teams and organizations at the same time. We have an commitment that it's important to find alternative ways of financing, and that's why I've also said that the government has to work this out.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-07.ana.ud612e958	We are discussing gambling, and in this regard I will begin by commending former Minister of Culture Valgerd Svarstad Haugland for her job in this matter. Her craft made it possible for us from Right to SV to unite in the fight against gambling. That was absolutely necessary because we have strong international players. We have huge interest in money, even nationally, which means that this has been a pretty tough fight. The reason why we're there today, that we've managed to reverse our opinion, is because we've been together. When Valgerd Reply City Haugland promoted his proposal, SV would go much further. All the time afterwards, we have been loyal to the decision that was made, not because it went far enough, but because we saw that it was necessary. So Christian People's Party today says that they discovered last year that the problem had now become so big that something had to be done. When we made the decision in 2003, the number of gambling addicts was two thirds of the level today. It's over 20,000 game addicts. What is the real reason why the Christian People's Party has now changed its mind?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-07.ana.ud612e967	The real reason was the one I sketched from the pulpit. I agree entirely with the representative Magnar Lund Bergo that Valgerd Svarstad Haugland actually went to the head in relation to getting something done about the gambling problem. The lawsuits have been postponed and delayed, and this has taken much longer than I thought, and we have developed an outrage in parallel with that. We had hoped that we would be able to implement that scheme, but the time went by. We didn't get to do that. So we've said that we're forced to go further. Since the Christian People's Party has also gone further, I believe we have now helped to influence the sitting government to go beyond what was first announced when we presented our Document No. Eight proposals, and one will remove the vending machines from July 1. Maybe it wouldn't have happened if the Christian People's Party hadn't gone in the head now. In the past it may be that the Socialist Left Party has been a spearhead by moving this policy in the right direction. Then I hope we can reach the goal together.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-07.ana.ud612e974	The representative, Mr. Molvær Grimstad, first says that development has gone in the wrong direction, and that is the background to the proposal. Then she says that the ban on the currency has worked and had a positive effect by then having gone the right way and the gambling revenue has become something lower than they were before. These are two things that conflict with each other. I also think that the proposal is a little special. I have a question for the representative, Mr. Molvær Grimstad, about all the organisations that are now losing these revenues, who are all going to go out and fight to get their revenues up in other areas: is it such that it is bingo, lot sales and cake sales that are going to give all the small organizations, who need this money to run their activity, income, and that they have to go out and fight against each other to get the income, so they can give the good offer they are making today?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-07.ana.ud612e981	What is quite clear for the Christian People's Party is that it is not the gambling addicts who are going to fund the voluntary sector. When we know that 9 out of 10 dollars comes from gambling addicts, we're forced to look at other ways to do it to help make the voluntary sector get income. When you see that turnover has increased from 8.5 billion in 2001 to 27 billion in 2005, you can see that developments have gone in the wrong direction. Now this year, a seat ban has been introduced, which is already being seen to have an effect. That is good – all measures that can have an impact are good. The Christian People's Party is busy, is that we should see the voluntary sector together, with all the types of tasks that he has, and where the state will be. I had hoped that after this debate today we could be a few things about one thing, and that is that at least it is not the gambling addicts who are going to fund the voluntary sector in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-07.ana.ud612e988	There is probably a little bit of a distortion of the truth when you say that former government councillor Svarstad Haugland was the spearhead in the work against slot machines. In fact, it was a proposal from Magnar Lund Bergo and myself that led the former Minister of Culture to address this problem. I would also say that the previous council could have done a lot more than she did. We were too loyal to wait for the measures to come. In fact, this government has done a lot of things pending the case being decided. A banknote ban has been introduced, which actually works, an assessment of night-time closure, and a specific charge is assessed to cover several prevention measures and treatment of gambling addiction. So this is a little unfair, I think.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-07.ana.ud612e995	This was a slightly special line from May Hansen, for Magnar Lund Bergo, SV's representative, just boasted of Valgerd Reply City Haugland for the job she had done in the fight to help the game addicts. I want to give them credit for what they've done with the problem around the game addicts. As I said in a reply earlier to May Hansen, they have been the party that has gone the farthest in some proposals. That's very good. When it comes to the current government, to which I also gave credit, she has implemented several of the proposals that Valgerd Svarstad Haugland made in her action plan. Then there may always be a discussion about how much more one should have done before. We can discuss history, and I can do that. But I'm at the same time busy lifting my eyes forward and looking at what possibilities we have, and what we can have in common. When SV is offensive in this area, I would also like to congratulate the Government, so that we can jointly achieve the goal that we can be some people about.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-07.ana.ud612e1006	Then the cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-07.ana.ud612e1009	In 2003, Stortinget adopted the so-called automatic reform that existing vending machines should be removed from the Norwegian market and replaced by a halved number of vending machines with a different design, operated by Norsk Tipping, deployed in better controlled stand-up locations, with a much lower turnover and with the possibility of more direct and effective control of game resolution and game development. The aim of the reform was to reduce the social problems that have arisen as a result of today’s automatic market. Studies show that perhaps as many as 70,000 people have such problems in Norway today. In the government’s view, automatic reform will be the best way to control the automatic market, as it will prevent the emergence of an illegal automated service. Before the automatic reform was put into effect, the automated contractors sued the State for claiming that this new regulation was contrary to the EEA Agreement. Operation is provisionally suspended due to objections under EEA law to the decision of those operating today’s vending machines. In fact, today the EFTA Court of Justice is dealing with the automatic matter in Luxembourg, and a final decision is expected in the first half of 2007. I still take the problems of today's automatic regime with the greatest seriousness. Therefore, the Government has decided to remove today’s vending machines from the market on 1 July 2007. I have noticed that the majority in the committee supports this. In the period up to this date, the gambling problems of today’s ATMs must contribute to, prevent and reduce. A ban was therefore imposed on the use of banknotes on the machines from 1 July 2006. The first figures show that the automatic turnover is reduced by 30 pst–40 pst. after the introduction of the prohibition on the use of banknotes. On 21 August 2006, a consultation proposal was sent on further measures to address the problems of vending machines in the period up to 1 July 2007. We will assess these when we have looked through the consultation opinions and look at what action should be taken. A specific tax on vending machines is also being considered, which is to be used to combat gambling addiction. Since Stortinget adopted the automatic reform in 2003, the awareness of the serious gambling problems the machines contribute to has become even greater. The efforts of individuals, local authorities and others to address these problems are very important. The exposure also suggests that restrictive gambling policies will lead governments have broad support among the majority of people. I have also noticed that problems related to gambling on the Internet are an increasing problem in Norway. In the autumn, the government has started work on assessing measures to combat this, including a proposal to ban payment transactions to companies offering gambling on the Internet. This is a matter we're coming back to. Then I also notice that the Committee is very concerned with the income base of its purposes. There is an awareness that the Government is fully sharing. We are very committed to volunteering in the state budget, as opposed to a year of decline in the Free Fund, there is now an increase in the allocation. There is also an increase in appropriations for a number of other voluntary purposes, including: to volunteer centres. This is an area where the government is really betting. But I do not understand – I assume you will vote on this later – that today you will try to adopt a ban on machines from 1 January 2007. This will cause quite serious problems for those organisations that actually have to go through a rather tough transition in order to adapt to a level of income that is completely different from what it has been. In the case of bingo machines, we have to be very careful about the state's approach to this. We have to build on facts. We're not against games. We're against gambling addiction. We have seen that, unlike vending machines, which have had an explosive growth in turnover in recent years, both overall and per. automatic, bingo-automated turnover has been completely constant and actually downwards in terms of turnover per. automatic. So we've asked the Guide to register people who are dealing with problems with bingo machines. Of course, we'll use the facts we're getting to take any action in this area as well. We look at the possibility that non-governmental organisations can increase their revenues in other areas, including: by opening up new types of games, of course, provided they do not create new social problems. All in all, I think it is very nice that you exchange the fun between SV and the Christian People's Party. I believe in these times, too, when the Christian People's Party is not only open to games, but also open to dance, as I saw the leader talking about at the national government meeting, that one should have been thoroughly trodden on the toes of government cooperation with other parties, or in formal cooperation with other parties on the right, at least in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-07.ana.ud612e1036	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-07.ana.ud612e1039	In its speech, the Council of State said that today’s vending machines would be removed on 1 July 2007. If now the judgment in the EFTA Court goes against Norway’s introduction of monopoly – Finland lost in the European Court of Justice, and Sweden’s case in the European Court of Justice does not look much brighter, to put it that way – do I wonder: Is it right then that you will completely ban all machines in Norway, or do you only apply to today’s machines? Does the Council of States open up for Norwegian Typing machines, if any?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-07.ana.ud612e1044	There is no need to prohibit the use of vending machines in Norway. Anyone who wants to operate on vending machines needs a specific approval. The way to do this is that the approvals which have been extended pending the EFTA Court will not be extended beyond 1 July 2007. It is then estimated that the judgment of the EFTA Court has been delivered. Then it is that if we win the trial, of course, the automatic system is implemented as a broad majority of the Storting has adopted. If we lose, which I think and hope we don't, we have to discuss what we're going to do. No decision has been taken by the Government. The matter must also be brought back to Stortinget, as it is Stortinget that has put the leaders for what we are going to do. That situation has not been addressed. But what's clear anyway is that today's situation cannot continue. We cannot live with the fact that very good and ideal purposes are to be paid by people who become socially and economically harmed by it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-07.ana.ud612e1051	I noticed the Council of State's concern for the purposes. That is a timely concern. Now it's also so that the whole situation is a little bit open, because we're waiting for rulings. But I think that in the light of the concerns of some of these organisations, it is important to give some signals in the future in relation to – what to say – the extent to which games will be part of the foundation that will provide the economy of these organisations. It is true that the government budget items mentioned by the Council of State are positive enough, but they do not in any way compensate for the revenue we are talking about here. We want to review the entire game area, possibly with new games. Is it a clarification of what organisations can expect that the Council of State will address and work in parallel with the other matters?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-07.ana.ud612e1060	Firstly, it is important to say that I believe that all the organisations have been very aware that the level of revenue you have had in recent years, with the incredible turnover that has been on the vending machines, would not continue. It was actually the previous government who said that since this was still longer than you really expected, there was no need for a specific compensation for the income drop. One had actually been overcompensated by having had large revenues much longer than what was actually planned. It's the same line that we've put on and communicated clearly to the organizations. I think a lot of organisations are so responsible that they put up buffers, and they don't spend all the money right away or add to an operating level that is not sustainable. Then I listened with interest to the representative Thommess saying to see if Norsk Typing is going to change or whether games from there should be moved out. Most of Norwegian Tipping's money is already going to voluntary teams and organisations, mainly sports, but a lot goes to culture as well. It would just be to move money from one part of the volunteer organizations to the other. I think we have to open up new games – as we have now done after many years of freezing. We're now opening up this panterotte where you can get a lot on the vending machines. Other ideas — on a socially responsible basis — are also welcome.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-07.ana.ud612e1067	Something I didn't want to get into my post so much was with internet games, foreign gambling. If Norway had agreed to such a proposal as they have made in Washington State, Telenor and the other Internet service providers will not distribute online games. There are not so many companies that deliver games on the Internet in Norway, and they mostly use the same distribution channels, so it should be technically possible to do so. Will the Council of State come up with any specific issues in this area? And then I come back to the bingo machines. It was recorded by the Lottery and the Foundation in February 2006 that these machines clearly have their negative side. I have also realized that the Guide gets a phone call from people who are users of these machines, and that one can use a set of up to 500 kroner, something that one cannot use on the other machines. Would it be contrary to the burden of proof for the Council of State to do something?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-07.ana.ud612e1076	The answer to the last one is yes. There must be proof that a problem is created before action is taken. The whole case of automatic reform is just about it, and the automatic industry believes that the measures are excessive in relation to the problem. The best thing we can do to help the automation industry win over the state in that case is therefore to take action that we do not have empirical grounds for. Therefore, we must be very careful that every measure must be adapted and assessed against the problem that we are trying to solve, including in the case of bingo machines. What we're getting is a better basis for fact. It is true that the Lottery Authority has given its opinion on the matter, but they could not present the empirical facts necessary for us to make our decisions. We're getting a better foundation now. At least the turnover figures do not indicate an accelerating problem. The guide will also be an indication, and we will of course consider both the prohibition of notes and other measures to address any social problems. But we're not against games, we're against gambling.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-07.ana.ud612e1081	I am very pleased with the way Trond Giske has managed the fight against game operators, and how he has worked to improve the situation of the game addicts. There are, however, two things I'm not going to get up completely. One thing about bingo vending machines. It has been referred to turnover figures, but in the case of other vending machines, we have not looked at the turnover figures alone. The lottery department thought the machines were more aggressive, so there's more than enough basis for the ministry to do something. Now we know that the Guide has made registrations in the last year, and we know that there are numbers coming from there quite quickly. Can the Council confirm that if such figures show that the machines are addictive, will he take immediate action? The other applies to network games. We have already confirmed that the Council of State will try to find out what is being done with online games in other countries, so that we can do something here in Norway. As my 18-year-old daughter would have said, "What's going on?"
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-07.ana.ud612e1092	We're going to study it in detail like this. The United States has done, but also the other countries have implemented measures on the Internet, such as: to see if there are any links in the wheels for this with banking transactions. It's about gambling addiction, but of course it's also about games that don't give a single penny to Norwegian sport, not a single penny to Norwegian culture, and all the profits disappear in private players' pockets. As far as bingo machines are concerned, it's actually like looking at turnover per. automatic. A few years ago, sales were on bingo vending machines and vending machines of about NOK 800000 per person. automatic. In recent years, the turnover of bingo vending machines has dropped to around NOK 650 000 per year. automatic, while for the vending machines it has been a doubling, I think it's 1.7 million. kr per. automatic. So it tells us about two completely different worlds. But to answer what Mr. Lund Bergo asked for, we're going to take action to combat gambling addiction as we get the facts. Because that's what we want to fight.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-07.ana.ud612e1101	In a reply with the party colleague of the Council of State earlier in this debate, I tried to get a clear answer to what will be done so that the thousands of teams and associations that lose substantial income in this area will have this compensated. If we estimate that you have had revenues of NOK 10 billion – carefully estimated – I was told that you should compensate VAT. It's about approx. One billion kroner. You should look at the tipping agents -- there might be another $1 billion in that area. There's a gap of 8 billion dollars left, and that's a relatively significant amount. It refers to the need to find other and new sources of income and to look at what you're already doing: sausage sales, sales of waffles, hard work hours. This concerns — quickly converted — revenues from the sale of between 400 million and 800 million sausages. It may be interesting to hear the plans of the Council of State to compensate for this.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-07.ana.ud612e1108	I don't fully understand the numerical basis of the representative Knudsen, because now I think he's calculated the percentage from the turnover instead of the profit. I don't think they're going to get 40 pst. of turnover of NOK 28 billion but 40 pst. of the surplus. There will be a significantly lower figure than the one referred to by the representative. But it is quite right that you will not have the adventurous incomes you have had in recent years, because you could not live with the fact that people in Norway simply gave up houses and homes to finance the voluntary sector. What we're doing is we're giving Norwegian Typing another distribution key. Many of the organisations that have made a lot of money, including in sports, very many teams and organisations, compensated by increased turnover in Norwegian Typing. We also open up for other games. Pantelotteriet is one of them. I don't think people are going to go crazy with the empty bottles in front of the Tomra machines and play from house to home that way, I think it's responsible and socially possible to re-establish it. Then, of course, there are other measures on the state budget that we are going to review, including: in the volunteer message that we are submitting to next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-07.ana.ud612e1118	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-07.ana.ud612e1123	I see that the representative, Mr Woldseth, who was the rapporteur on the matter in 2003, has left the Chamber. To my reply that the Progress Party then mentioned gambling as the so-called problem, Woldseth reiterated to me that we did not have anything we should have said, because we had not supported them on that 1 pst. the profit of the game should be treated. I see that the representative Knudsen is present, and I expect him to read and confirm that Woldseth's information is incorrect. In fact, it was the representative of Lund Bergo who promoted the proposal. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats agreed, we supported the proposal and voted in favour of it. After all, gambling is prohibited in the first place. When we have it anyway, it's because the money has to go for so-called good purposes. And then over the last few years, we've seen that it's caused such problems that we had to intervene. To light it up a little bit: today we spend 150 times more on gambling than in 1990. 150 times-- that might not say that much when it comes to gambling, but let's think about alcohol consumption, because there are some similarities. I'm not in favour of a ban on alcohol, I'm not in favour of a ban on gambling, but we have to have it regulated, and we have to take action if it comes out of shape. Around 1990, the consumption of alcohol was about 5 liters per 1 day. the population. It's increased above 6 liters, and we're worried. If we had the same increase in alcohol consumption since 1990 that we've had in gambling, every Norwegian would now have had a consumption of 750 liters. Then there might be more than SV that would have intervened a little bit before. We need to get money for good ends. SV is not in principle against gambling, but we believe that we have to have it in controlled forms, and we have been the spokesperson for Norsk Typing to control this. Norwegian Typing is under state control and will have to do as we say. It is not, however, that I or SV are very satisfied with everything that Norwegian Typing does. Norwegian Typing has two brain hemispheres – one has to play well, and the other has to get as much money as possible. The two brain hemispheres don't always talk as well up there at Hamar, and we're going to be aware of that in the time that comes. The volunteer thing has also been done. I am of the opinion that some of the games that Norsk Typing has taken over from the volunteers should return to volunteering, so that when they lose the machines they may have incentives to run their own organizations and perhaps do a better job in some fields in terms of harmless games that Norsk Typing has today.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-07.ana.ud612e1136	It's great that the government, under pressure from the game addicts and from the Christian People's Party, side by side, took a very sensible stand, easy to wind up the slot machines from July 1st next year. The strong increase in the number of gambling addicts in recent years, with all the evil fates that follow in the wake of this, has made gambling a serious social problem. So, introductoryly, the honor of the Government for a clear position, for which many, many are grateful. But it's still unclear what happens to the bingo vending machines, which were excluded from the seat ban. The representative of Molvær Grimstad has tried to answer this several times in the debate, in replies to the government party and to the government council, but it is still unclear whether the bingo machines will also be excluded from the resolution decision from 1 July next year. The reason why the Christian People's Party is so busy with this is the fact that it's raised above all doubt that when it comes to gambling addiction and the evil and dramatic consequences of this, the bingo machines don't make any fancy alternative. In point 2 of Document No: Our 8 proposal states that we want the voluntary sector to be given state support to carry on its work. It is very important that the voluntary sector, with its breadth and its invaluable and irreplaceable societal effort, does not be left with reduced revenues and, for that reason, also reduced activity after the liquidation of gambling. We need a voluntary sector, but when we know that 9 out of 10 gamblers come from people who have gambling problems, the income from gambling appears to be an unworthy form of funding. Therefore, alternative sources of funding or forms of funding are both necessary and important, and we are very excited about the hopefully good sources of funding or funding that the Government will bring up. It would have been okay if the council had shown a little bit more how he thinks here, but we hope that this is in safe and good hands.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-07.ana.ud612e1149	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 417]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-07.ana.ud612e1165	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of response be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-07.ana.ud612e1174	This case has its background in a Document No. Eight proposals from six right-hand guttering representatives. They have made the following proposals: ‘The Government asks the Government to investigate the basis and possibilities for the realisation of a high-speed rail ring in South Norway, the Southern Norwegian high-speed ring.’ The Transport and Communications Committee, during its examination of the case, held a hearing in which the traffic planning officer Jon Hamre, who has drawn up the vision prospectus, was given a presentation. The proposal is based on an idea to build the high-speed railway as a ring across South Norway: Oslo–Bergen–Stavanger–Oslo, with Telemarksbahnen and Vestfoldbanen out of Oslo to Bergensbanen in the north, the West Railway in the west, the South Railway in the south, the Telemarksbahnen and Kongsberg, where the ring ends. The cost is estimated at over DKK 100 billion. The investigator has developed a detailed proposal describing the high-speed ring and why he believes that this path should be assessed. But it's, as you can see from the note, just a vision prospectus. As part of the consultation, Norsk Bane, who has investigated and proposed high-speed rail over Haukeli, has sent a written opinion to the proposal. They are in favour of the initiative, but they are negative to the proposal, highlighting Haukelibanen as a good alternative. In spring 2006, the government launched an investigation into the potential for high-speed rail in Norway as part of the follow-up work on the national transport plan 2006–2015. The investigation itself is carried out by independent consultants. On the basis of the main transport markets, they shall assess whether there is a market and realism in expanding routes at significantly higher speed than the current one. In addition to the corridors where rail is currently running, primarily the aviation market between the major cities of South Norway, investigators shall also assess other markets that may be relevant, irrespective of current plans or strategies for the deployment of the rail network. The investigation is under way because we believe high-speed rail can be the solution to some of the transport challenges in our country, and especially between the major cities of South Norway. Extensive passenger traffic by aircraft in Norway can provide the high-speed train with a significant market. For example, 1.3 million passengers are transported between Oslo and Bergen per. years. In Europe, high-speed rail systems are emerging because they are perceived as a more efficient and comfortable form of transport than aeroplanes. Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions are increasing and the transport sector accounts for about a quarter of emissions. This is essentially emissions from cars and aircraft, only a small part coming from the railway. A railway solution will therefore contribute to the reduction of Norway’s greenhouse gas emissions. In addition, there may also be an important contribution to increased road safety, regional development and an efficient transport system. The Government, in its opinion on the proposal for a high-speed ring, has pointed out that the investigation work already in progress, and the preconditions for this, provides a good basis for also elucidating the potential and realism of a southern high-speed ring. This has been welcomed by the proposers and an overall committee, with the exception of the Progress Party. The Progress Party wants more progress, and it has made its own proposals, which I believe they themselves are taking up here. It is gratifying that the Right now has seen the benefits of the railway, and supports an investigation of the high-speed rail. However, it must be said to be alarming that the Right is promoting a proposal on high-speed rail now, and not a year ago, when the party itself was in government. This proposal has been working on it for so long that it could have been promoted when the Right had the power to implement it. But they didn't. Instead, the Right promotes it when we have a government that proposes a historic investment on the railway. In the 2007 budget, for the first time, a government has proposed full follow-up to the national transport plan. This means, among other things: further development of the double-track railway and more for the operation of the railway. In addition, the Government has launched an investigation into the potential for high-speed rail. The time at which the Right has put forward its proposal may therefore have been chosen in confidence that it will receive a serious assessment and that the high-speed rail system in Norway might become a reality, with this government? For if the Right is serious about cooperating with the Advance Party in the future, it looks very dark in relation to the further development of the railway, and in particular the development of a forward-looking railway as high-speed rail. The price tag for the high-speed ring is estimated at over DKK 100 billion – a sum Right may be willing to prioritize on the high-speed ring, while the Progress Party will not even be in favour of an investigation. In the setting of the National Transport Plan, the Progress Party has made a number of points: ‘In competition with rail, the car has a superior competitive advantage; speed, flexibility, and not least, economics can be mentioned here.’ According to the EU, high-speed rails should not be less than 250 km/h in terms of speed. However, according to the Progress Party, this is nothing compared to the superiority of the car in this area. The majority want to explore the potential for high-speed rail, and look forward to the government investigation, which will be completed in the spring of 2007. With this I recommend the Committee's recommendation: ‘The Committee has no other comments, refers to the document and refers to the Stortinget to take such a decision:Document No. 8:94 [[2005-2006]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-07.ana.ud612e1217	The Road Party Right dream of high-speed rail in Norway – a southern high-speed rail ring, with travel times that can compete with aeroplanes, to reduce CO2 emissions. The presentation of the project through the media shows that the dream involves two hours of train ride from Bergen to Oslo, a new railway between Bergen and Stavanger, 1000 km of new railway tracks to 100 billion DKK distributed over 10 years. I have noticed in particular that the driver of this project – the representative Halleraker from the Right – has the funding in place. He says to the regional newspaper Bergen's Official Journal – a newspaper that unreservedly gets caught by any airy dream of travel – that 10-12 billion kroner per year is no more than that it can be financed under the oil revenue rule. The right view of the financing of the dream is therefore the most interesting side of the matter. The party of progress does not share the dream of the Right and the railway of the other parties. We neither want nor see the need to investigate high-speed rail in Norway. The high-speed rail must have completely new tracks even where the railway is running today, says the Railway Station. The high-speed straé will cost close to 150 million. kr per. km, i.e. nearly 150 billion kroner for 1000 km. Today's railway has major infrastructure challenges. Both investment projects and maintenance projects are in line with each state budget. We can't even operate an efficient normal-speed rail in Norway. It is important to dream – dreams create visions that can become goals and implement measures. Fortunately, we dream differently. In the Progress Party we also have a dream for the transport sector. It's a dream of good and safe roads all over the country, a dream for the Progress Party, but a dream that is actually shared by many, from people most to rapporteurs from the Right, the Labour Party and the Center Party. Last week the Transport Committee was travelling in Oppland and Hedmark. Many of the municipal politicians and state politicians we met, and many of the business and organisational representatives, probably also have that dream. They could probably think of both 10 and 12 billion more for road construction and road maintenance in Norway every year. For the Advancement Party, this is not just a dream. It's a vision, it's a goal for us -- good and safe roads for people most around the country, built by the state, paid by the state 100 pst., not 10 pst., and not 0 pst. An important thing that is highlighted in the matter is the need for independent professional investigation. The environment in Norway is both too small and too under-independent. The Progress Party is enthusiastic about the idea of an investigation in the field of transport carried out by foreign trade competence. But we want to use such expertise in the investigation of roads, especially on the development of the main road network. The fagetates have just presented their own proposals for the development of the core network. That is why it is particularly appropriate, as the Progress Party sees it, to have an independent investigation carried out on the development of the precisely main road network. In our view, investigators should assess the conditions for a modern road network in Norway on a free basis. On the basis of the main transport markets, socio-economic benefits resulting from the development of a national road network with greater capacity, greater speed, better traffic safety and lower elevation profile than the current road network shall be explored. Different forms of public full funding shall also be included in the investigation. The result of the work is presented in a separate parent road report to Stortinget last autumn 2007. This is the Dream of the Advance Party – the dream of a good road network, a modern tribal road network. It can also be realized. 'The railway is important, but roads are vital'. The statement is not mine, but comes from the rapporteur Henning Myrvang in the South Odal in Hedmark County. It was accepted. I refer to the proposal of the Advance Party in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-07.ana.ud612e1246	The representative Arne Sortevik has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-07.ana.ud612e1249	I would like to take a road debate with the Progress Party at a later stage, but today we are actually discussing something else. You have to be careful to be maximum and use large and unwarranted words from this pulpit. But perhaps today we are laying a small foundation for a certain innovation and new approach in Norwegian transport policy, with a large majority in this Chamber. It's not everyday food. I say this in the recognition that today we do not take shell-setting decisions that expire in new and radical actions immediately. The rapporteur has made an excellent presentation on the matter and on the position of a large majority in the Committee. From the Right, I would like to express considerable satisfaction, as we note that the vision of the proposers for a more environmentally friendly, comfortable and time-saving way of travel between and within our most populous cities and regions in South Norway has a good sound base in large parts of the political environment. And on the basis of our parliamentary system, it is with some recognition that I from the opposition will thank the Council of State for its express will and a premise that the proposal we are considering today will be followed up in the further work on the high-speed investigation, which is being carried out by the Railway Agency on the initiative of the Department. I have heard today questions about how it might be that the Right asks for an investigation of railway operations now. I'm proud to belong to a party that doesn't have dogmatic and outdated performances based on old-fashioned railway solutions that don't meet today's needs, but that looks around for new and forward-looking solutions that can mean a new day for 3/4 of the country's population. If the High-Speed Rail Survey in South Norway, which now includes the Right Initiative, proves to be realistic, it will appear as the environmental, productivity and mobility projects of the century. After the proposal was promoted in ours, many competent environments have made contact and sound input to the proposal. The right, together with these, has therefore developed what we have called a vision prospectus, which goes a lot further than the proposal and points to concrete solutions and exciting opportunities. Time does not allow me to go into detail here, but the vision prospectus has been presented to the Committee and transmitted to the Minister of Transport and the Railway Agency, and is also available online. New requirements for labour mobility and the pursuit of economic activity also lead to increased travel activity. Comfort, time use, costs and environmental responsibility will be important parameters in the future. Our survey underlines the enormous opportunities offered by alternatives to air transport in terms of acceptable commuter time in the surrounding region to the large workplace locations around the entire high-speed ring. As Hordaland's representative, I have to point out that the key to realising the West as a functional region is to bind the coast together with a fast and frequent transport system, which removes the constraints of the area's topography. Nature causes Norway’s main export region, the West, to be fragmented with a centre of gravity along the coast. Four of these, the Bergen region, Sunnhordland, Haugalandand Stavanger region, approx. 1 million people, today are largely isolated labour markets. When the high-speed ring, if any, is closed, and Bergensbanen and Sørlandsbanen bound together, preliminary studies show that you can travel from anywhere to anywhere within the high-frequency ring and with incredible travel time, for example, less than 1 1/2 hours between Bergen and Stavanger, towards today 2 1/2 to 3 hours by plane and 4 1/2 hours by car and ferry. I believe that there is a broad majority in this Chamber to bet on environmentally friendly transport solutions in competition with highly polluting air traffic. And it's a lot more comfortable. We have to remember that it is the very competitive interface with air traffic that will be the basis for the high-speed ring. Politics is the art of possibility. If we are to succeed with high-speed innovation, I think a solid political majority is needed, which is sustainable over time. We have that in this case. In the Right, we are concerned that we need to invest in good times to ensure tomorrow's well-being. The South Norwegian high-speed ring may prove to be such an investment.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-07.ana.ud612e1272	I would like to congratulate the Right on the day. The lot has finally landed on the track. It is sincere and politely meant. It is promising that such a wide majority in the high-speed ring setting expresses the importance of the development of rail as a time-consuming, environmentally sound and safe transport solution for the achievement of the objectives of the national transport plan. For SV, the reason that lies in the setting is good green future music. That the Right and SV agree that we should get a train offer that can compete for polluting air traffic between the largest cities in South Norway is good. The attitude of the progress party may be ignored in all silences. They don't understand the climate problems, and they probably never get out of the asphalt fog. The common red-green, blue and yellow will to bet on the train is, as I said, joyous. And this common understanding had to come under a red-green government. This government has put the railway on the agenda again. We're raising rail investments by 50 pst. until next year. For the first time, we reach the level of the national transport plan. The National Council of Skogsholm followed up a few scarce formulations in the NTP, and the Oslo–Gothenburg section was specially picked out. Councillor Navarsete has been following up and speeding up the high-speed investigation. The mandate has now been extended to the best possible review of the possibilities of high-speed rail in this country. It happens using independent investigators. They are not bound by existing plans for the development of the network. They shall explore the possibilities on a free basis. SV agrees with the assessment made by the majority of the Committee that this investigation must also highlight the potential for a southern Norwegian high-speed ring, as described in the proposal of the Right. For spring, we will have an even better political basis for discussing the modern rail system of the future. That debate will take place with all our strength. High-speed railways in Norway break with accustomed performances, to put it mildly. Many connect it with Japan, France and maybe Sweden. It is therefore worth noting that, among other things. Norsk Bane has shown that Norway is very interesting for high-speed. We have some of the busiest air routes in Europe. For example, it's flying. as many between Oslo and Bergen/Haugesund as it does between New York and Washington, and there are almost as many flight travelers between Oslo and Stavanger as between London and Paris, well a million passengers. Four million passengers fly between cities in southern Norway. There are 12,000 air travelers every day. It's the same number as in 40 distance trains every day, in each direction. Even a moderate transition from plane to runway will provide a lot of train traffic. In Norway, the transport sector contributes 25 pst. of greenhouse gas emissions. Less than 0.5 pst. of which, due to rail, road transport alone accounts for 70 pst. On a future web, one freight train can carry as much cargo as 80 trailers – in half an hour! It brings low costs and great time savings. When the train becomes so attractive that it can compete for long-distance and shorter-distance flights, it will not only bring enormous environmental and climate gains, but also a much greater potential for revenue. This may also contribute to paying for the investments by ticket receipts and receipts from freight transport. It's a new concept, and it seems realistic. We have good examples from Europe that this can be possible also in Norway. For us who live in the West South of Sognefjord, Haukelibanen is also an exciting project. It is also a revised concept that will make Norway less distant and more environmentally friendly. It's still a vision to get on the train in Haugesund and arrive Oslo about two hours later. But visions are important. With such visions, Norway can actually once again become a country that is charging on the rail 100 years after the country spent an entire state budget on the Bergensbanen, because we are re-discovering the railway as the efficient means of transport that is at the same time the most environmentally friendly. I think the railway will be the winner, and looks forward to the day I can join in at the opening of the Flotmyr station.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-07.ana.ud612e1298	This is an exciting proposal the Stortinget has to deal with today. It is forward-looking and tense, and it has its origins in an important environmental perspective. It is according to the taste of the Christian People's Party. In the Christian People's Party, we want a clear environmental perspective in the transport sector. We have also programmed that we will bet on the railway to make the train competitive, also in relation to aircraft. It is the environmental perspective that makes the high-speed rail idea particularly interesting. Of course, it can be argued for the construction of the high-speed rail system for the benefit of travellers. They'll get increased comfort, the railway is a comfortable way to travel. In addition, the number of accidents on the road may be reduced. But above all, the environmental aspect is the most serious argument in this debate. Transport is one of the greatest challenges for sustainable development in the world today. The environmental impacts of the transport sector contribute to high social costs and the energy consumption of the sector is high and increasing. The threat of rapid and large man-made climate change is one of the greatest societal threats we face. If we do nothing about our greenhouse gas emissions, we will be able to experience significant damage as a result of climate change in the coming decades. Today, developments are going in the wrong direction. Current developments in the transport sector are not sustainable. We must learn to meet today's needs without destroying the opportunities for future generations to meet their needs. Managing responsibility is fundamental in Christian People's Party's policy. Our goal is to manage the earth properly and ensure sustainable development. We know that we share that goal with most people in this room. Development is in the wrong direction. Norway’s emissions have increased sharply over the 1990s, and it is expected that the increase will continue if no action is taken to reduce emissions. We need to reverse this trend, not just by adopting individual measures that may contribute a little, but by thinking holistically and strategically and adopting a series of measures that together make a big difference and turn development in the right direction. High-speed rail may be one of several measures to reduce emissions from the transport sector. If such a path can help us to fly less and perhaps get a good alternative to the private car, it will greatly reduce emissions. We Norwegians travel a lot, and we have a lot of travel needs on a part of the routes that might be relevant to the high-speed rail. Today, alternatives are private car, aircraft and railway. We prefer to fly because it's too far to run. The train goes too slowly, and it is often expensive, especially with the night train. The Nordics are flying most in the world today. The number of domestic flight take-offs is also strongly increasing. The train pollutes at least and is perhaps most comfortable, but it takes too long as it is today. The plane is more efficient. Trains are the most environmentally friendly mode of transport we have. If it is that polluting air traffic can be drastically reduced as a consequence of expanding high-speed trains in Norway, that is a very good argument. In Europe, high-speed railway lines are being built between the major cities that dramatically reduce air traffic. The Christian People's Party will not decide on the choice of any routes now. The South Norwegian high-speed ring is a very interesting project. Haukelibanen, with whom Norsk Bane has worked for a long time, is another. In conclusion, there are large costs, and there is considerable uncertainty about costs. We lack experience of such pathways in Norway, and we have other circumstances to take into account than in comparable countries in Europe. Our population is not large, and we live widely. Topography is also a major challenge. However, there may be potential for high-speed rail in Norway? Maybe there's customer base on some sections too? We look forward to the seminar on the investigation work to be organised at the end of the month. We are keen to hear about the potential, and whether there is an opportunity to achieve such a gigantic promise, which signals both forward-lookingness, collective action and environmental friendliness.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-07.ana.ud612e1321	Internationally, Norway has a unique financial autonomy. For a long time, many people have wondered about the leadership of the country, why there has been no greater use of the unique financial freedom to secure lasting values that put lasting traces behind them. It is quite obvious — and there is a strong demand on the part of the population — that government investment in communications needs to increase sharply in the future. This means that on the broadband side, where fiber is the future of many, transitions must be made from demand-driven investment to supply-driven investment, mobile coverage across the country, prioritisation of quays, fairways and roads, and not least rail escapes from the prehistoric situation for many sections of the road. The Minister of Transport of the Central Party has given the Ministry of Transport a new gift. The 2007 budget is for us a stage win, where the national transport plan for 2007 is met. But there's no more than one single-stage victory. New stages must be given priority. That's a unison demand for out in the population. At the 2007 budget, we received a strong prioritisation of money for maintenance and upgrading. Finally, there are many who say, we've got a practical government council as the ability to prioritize practical things, which has been a neglected chapter under many former state councils. When I meet drivers at Bergensbanen, they say that Per, at last we may be able to do something about the many slow-driving sections that are on Bergensbanen. There are 10 to 20 slow driving distances where you have to go down to 40 km/h due to the fact that the track bodies and the visibility are not satisfactory in relation to the requirements of the time. So it's very gratifying that we've got a practical handle that, as it turns out in this case, can be combined with intention for visionary investigations. The South Norwegian high-speed ring was explored by the Railway Agency in order to shed light on its potential and economic realism and will form a basis for the National Transport Plan 2010–2019. It is of great importance to better connect South Norway. The train offer has been weakened in this area for a long time. Many valleys have naturally lost the train for various reasons. It's now very interesting that there's a broad majority asking for a spin-off through a bold investigation. Also for my county, Buskerud, it is a joyous development. I would like to say that at least this work will have to lead to increased investment in communications in the forthcoming budget, and this is a major, priority centre party issue. So first of all, sailing the investigation will mean that one has to look at it in the longer term, it has a promise and a vision over it that will have practical consequences: that the railway body comes out of the greedy situation it has been in for a long time.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-07.ana.ud612e1336	It is gratifying that today we have the opportunity to debate such an exciting theme as a Southern high-speed ring. It's nice to be able to lift your eyes a little bit, be a little more visionary and look forward. The left has programmed high-speed rail in Norway, so we welcome this debate. The process of thinking around a southern Norwegian high-speed ring is a loving concreteisation of what is perceived by too many as an airy idea, despite the fact that in large parts of Europe a good offer has already been developed within high-speed trains. In Europe, in many cases, the train is more competitive than the plane – not necessarily at price, but preferably on travel time and not least on comfort. We see that people want more and more to use their time more effectively. High-speed trains combine in an elegant way short journey time with the ability to work along the way. I am therefore very confident that high-speed trains will be more and more in demand in the future, especially by business travellers and workers. At the same time, trains are an environmentally friendly mode of transport, and it is therefore important that we facilitate a more competitive train. Recently, the Stern report, which was characterised by English Prime Minister Tony Blair as the most important political document he had received during his reign. The report concludes that the cost of future climate change is crazy, while the cost of addressing the problems is relatively reasonable. That is why it is very important that we in Norway are able to keep up with developments in high-speed trains and that we know where we want to go about railway policy. It is a problem that the railway in today's Norway is planned based on where we are, and not where we want it. It climbs on old tracks and tracks all over the country. It's important that we do this, but it's probably so important that this is seen in a larger context and based on what we want with the railway. In this context, the proposal for a southern high-speed ring is to raise our eyes and enable us to see the possibilities that the train brings in the future. I think it is disappointing that the Progress Party, which has recently called for a serious approach to the environment, is now withdrawing from the proposal for a southern high-speed ring, while trying to make the proposal for a road case. With the ambitious party name – the Advance Party – one should have expected the party to look forward in time, raise its eyes and not just stare blindly into the asphalt, while the rest of Europe rages past and enter a new age, while the French TGV, British Eurostar and German ICE III compete for the customers and compete for the aircraft in Europe. However, it is evident that Norwegian conditions, such as housing patterns, other infrastructure and high-speed rail development costs, will help to determine when a similar offer can be achieved in Norway. Therefore, the Left looks forward to the investigation into the potential for high-speed rail in Norway when available. To learn more, the Left wants the Oslo – Gothenburg route to be a pilot project testing the high-speed rail system. The Swedes have arranged for a higher speed on the Swedish side, but it remains to be put in place on the Norwegian side. Together with the studies undertaken by the Ministry of Transport on high-speed rail, this would have provided a good basis for planning further high-speed rail investment in Norway. The left therefore hopes that the red-green ones will continue the work that was started by the Bondevik administration in this area. It is important that the Government ensures progress in this work and to a greater extent facilitates higher speed on the Oslo-Gothenburg route by seeing this in conjunction with the significant investments already planned on the Eastfold Railway in the time to come. This high-speed line can revolutionise everyday life in a mobile European labour market.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-07.ana.ud612e1353	It's interesting to sit in the hall and to the right of the wide plural, which with tension looks forward to the construction of the high-speed path. It also does the Council of State. This is a ground-breaking theme, and it will be exciting both to get the result of the table layout and to take the debate that will follow. In spring 2005, the Ministry of Transport commissioned the Railway Agency to eliminate the potential that could lead to high-speed rail in Norway. As has been mentioned here, the actual distribution work was done by German consultants, and it has been an important point that consultants should not be bound by previous and current Norwegian railway policy, but on a free basis assess the conditions for the high-speed rail system in Norway. On the basis of the main transport markets, it will be assessed whether there is a market and realism in expanding routes for far right running than today. In addition to the corridors where the railway is currently running, it is also significant that consultants should assess whether there are other markets that may be relevant. These statements provide a good basis for assessing the potential and realism of a Norwegian high-speed ring, as proposed by Right in Document No. 8:94. As pointed out by the Ministry in its reply to the Committee in connection with the management of Document No. The 8 proposal, of course, is that this concrete proposal is being considered in the context of the ongoing distribution under the direction of the Railway Agency. I am therefore both content with and reconciled with the plurality of the committee's handling of Document No. The 8 from the Right. When it comes to the Progress Party's comments, I'm not going to comment on them. I mean the comments speak for themselves. They see in a particularly clear way that the Progress Party is only busy and does not see the wholeness of the social policy that we are working for. It's not either – or, but both – and whether we're going to have a forward-looking system of transportation across the country that looks at both the people's and districts. Phase I of the distribution work has now come so far that the German consultants will present the results of their work at a full-time seminar at the Grand Hotel in Oslo on 22 November. The seminar is organised by the Railway Agency, and it is foreseen that the proposal on the Southern Norway High Speed Ring will also be presented there. On the basis of the outcome of Phase I, the Railway Agency shall, in consultation with the Ministry of Transport, assess which sections it is most interesting to consider more closely in Phase II of the Distribution. The full distribution, both Phase I and Phase II, is planned to be completed in spring/summer 2007. The idea is that the distribution should be part of the basic material in connection with the ministry’s work on a major national transport plan notification 2010–2019. So a little comment on the setting, where the Progress Party's members do not quite find the reason why the work to eliminate the potential of the high-speed rail is based in St.meld. No 24 for 2003-2004. They state that they have not registered a decision or annotated such a decision in the Inst. S. No 240 for 2003-2004. I will therefore show that on page 122 in St.meld. No 24 for 2003-2004: ‘The Ministry of Transport will therefore carry out an independent review of what should be applied to future rail network standards in Norway, in particular in the light of the desire for increased coordination with the development of European rail across borders.’ Today's debate does point out that it was right for the Ministry to take the initiative to make such an arrangement. So I'm looking forward to both getting the statement on the table and the debate that will follow.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-07.ana.ud612e1376	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-07.ana.ud612e1379	It is enough that the Progress Party sees the whole, but we are calling for the wisdom of the proposal. When we move into the theme of high speed, there are enough people, both travelers and road users, who could imagine 90 km/h on a good and safe four-field road. There would be a useful high speed for a lot of people in this country. My question to the Council of State is this that goes on an independent investigation. That's a good idea, as I said in my post. Why not make such an independent investigation also linked to the main road network, which means too many in this country? That's the one. The second is, how does the Council of State see the economic space in a project like this? Because there's quite a lot of money here. On the basis of information from the Railway Agency itself, a new trajectory has to be built, and we have a price on it. Does the Council of State believe that there is room for 10 billion extra DKK per year within the budget rules that exist today?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-07.ana.ud612e1388	In the case of the main road network, we have just received on the table a core network distribution for the different sectors that also outline the faithful for the development of tribal roads until 2040. It's an arrangement that's made where Norway has very good competence. There is no one, as far as I know, who is calling for one on the main road network to be brought in with new lanes regardless of what we have today. On the other hand, if a choice is made to move on to high-speed networks, what the representative says will require new lines, new technologies and a whole new way of thinking about railway construction. That's why this is a very special case, which will be distributed in the way that we choose to do it here.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-07.ana.ud612e1393	I'm glad that the Council of State, unlike the previous replicator, sees a high-speed rail bringing us 270 km/h in the future, and not 90 km/h. That's what's the interface here. Many are surprised by the large air traffic we have in Norway. When I get a description of how uncomfortable it has been to get on planes in Norway, and I then talk to people about this, this idea of a high-speed railway is quickly heard. That's why I think that since there's now a broad majority here that shows interest in this, the population will become more and more interested. Then it may be timely for a question to the Council of State about how she thinks this presented in the national transport plan – something different and something more ambitious, I must hope, than the Railway Agency did in its core network investigation until 2040, where it is not mentioned at all. There are many exciting organisational models and funding models that could have been mentioned.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-07.ana.ud612e1400	There is no doubt that air traffic is increasing in Norway. It's related to our topography. Even with a high-speed rail network, which will certainly take a large part of the traffic between the major cities of South Norway, we will also have a huge crowd for aviation services in the future, not least in those parts of the country which are not covered by a possible high-speed rail. When it comes to the presentation in the national transport plan, I have to ask to get back to it. Now we're going to get a deal, and there's none of us today who know what she's going to hold. It will be exciting to see the first piece on November 22nd. Then you have to go forward with step 2. That's why I don't have per. Today, with regard to that presentation, it will depend a lot on the content of the distribution and the debate that follows on on how we will handle it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-07.ana.ud612e1407	There is every reason on the part of the Christian People's Party to give commendation to the Minister for Forward-Looking Thought when one has started to ask an external foreign company to investigate this matter. We look forward with excitement to both what's going to happen later this month, and what's coming in a good six months. If there is now evidence of realism in achieving high-speed rail in some form in Norway, there will be a question of how it will be financed. It has already been lifted by the Progress Party, but the Minister was not able to answer it. We've tried different models. It's been OPS, it's been promised project funding, and someone wants a fund. It looks like most of this stops in the Ministry of Finance. The government says that transport is to be financed through the annual budgets. I don't know if the Council of State will think a little loud with us about how to possibly finance such a project as what we are discussing today.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-07.ana.ud612e1416	There are always temptations to go on with height thinking. But – to be serious in my answer – I think it must be a discussion when we have been given the table to see if there is realism in it. I have not entered it per. today. I don't have a number either, although there are some numbers from the Railway Agency that we can keep to in a good way. We don't know if there's realism in this. That's what we're talking about. So I have to ask to get back to it. If you choose to go on with plans about a high-speed path, you will have to consider different ways to finance it. Whether it should be within or outside the ordinary budgetary system, we must come back to it when it becomes a reality.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-07.ana.ud612e1421	I have a question related to the relationship between the development of a third runway on the Gardermoen and the expansion of a possible high-speed rail. Does the Minister for Transport see that this could be a connection, that we can simply avoid building a third runway on the Gardermoen by expanding the high-speed rail system between the major cities of Norway, or between them and the big cities of Europe for that matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-07.ana.ud612e1426	Whether or not a third runway will be required depends, of course, on the increase in the traffic of a sheep on the Gardermo. In this way, it is possible to think of the relationship between the different modes of transport. Because if one goes further with the plans for the high-speed rail, there is reason to believe that traffic on the Gardermo will get a much weaker increase, perhaps a decrease, in the event that one chooses other solutions. The challenge for the state councils will be the time aspect here, what time one might think of taking a decision about the high-speed rail, and what time one local might expect to have a clarification about a possible third runway, which we haven't made a decision about per. today.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-07.ana.ud612e1431	Let me first say that the Progress Party is not against building the high-speed rail. What we are against, and what we find unrealistic, is that the state should take the funding. If the Council of State does not have any figures to relate to what is realistic here, then at least the Progress Party has some figures from the Railway Agency, from the Technical Manager of the Railway Agency, Finn Holom, and my simple questions are: Is it realistic to invest in this high-speed ring when the cost is 150 billion kroner, compared to the representative Halleraker has stated earlier, that this should take place within the framework of the Action Rule? And is it realistic, then, to fund this path without prioritizing other tasks such as, or kindergartens for that purpose? Is it realistic to find 150 billion dollars within the rule of action without having to deprioritize other tasks?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-07.ana.ud612e1438	We now have a statement about the high-speed path. The number of $100 billion has been called, and the number is $150 billion here. None of us know if it's one of these numbers, or if it's a higher or lower number, that's going to be the right thing. I think we have to do things in order. Now we have to get the solution in place, and we have to get a decision on whether to continue with this. It's clear that in that process, the answer to Per Sandberg is the highest reasonable. Then there are those who think that a high-speed rail network can be built and defended without using such large government funds. It is also not possible for me to assess the content, as long as we have not assessed it better than we have per. today. I can't give the representative Sandberg a better answer than we have to assess this in a total context. If you choose to continue on the high-speed path, you will be asked below, and of course the consequences for the budget will be great.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-07.ana.ud612e1446	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-07.ana.ud612e1451	High-speed ring in South Norway. The theme is so exciting that it is impossible not to ask for a short post. We all have little pieces of knowledge that we're burning for, no matter where in the country we come from, but sometimes we're invited to look up a little bit and look at something that's of national importance. Now I come from Rogaland and I know, of course, about the oil economy's blessing on the country, about the wealth we have, and the problem we're all about in the world, namely having a challenge in limiting how much money we're going to spend. But even for us from Rogaland, it is quite obvious that we are going to live a life even after the oil age, and that one should invest where there is potential for value creation for the future. Such an investment should not least take place within infrastructure, which provides a basis for further growth, employment and new value creation. In the nearly 30 years I have been representing the South West in both local and national policies, there has been a sustained debate on where the focus of the real value creation in Norway lies. Of course, from the west and south-west coasts it is claimed that most of the exports in the country go from there. In the Central East, one points out that the main weight of value creation comes not least from the services industries, which are heavy in the Oslo area. But the truth is that the whole country contributes here, in each way, some places with greater weight and greater sums than elsewhere. Then it's very exciting to imagine scenarios where one tries to figure out how one can get additional value creation where it's possible to get it, today and in the future. I think that the project that's drawn up here, where one connects the part of the country where the export and export industries are the heaviest, with that part of the country where the value of services is the largest, is an incredibly exciting model of thought. It's a scenario that provides opportunities for future, new growth in the country. I hope that's a kind of scenario that we'll increasingly spend time on in the years that come, so we're well prepared for what comes after gas and oil times. When it comes to an environmentally sound and good project at the same time, I have to say that I am really looking forward to the investigation that has been announced. This I think is exciting.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-07.ana.ud612e1460	A few small comments – on the tap: In the case of decisions taken in connection with the national transport plan, it is clear that several proposals from the SV on putting concrete action on high-speed corridors were rejected by the rest of the mass, by all the other batches – including those that are now jubilant, agree to explore the high-speed rail. Two years ago, when the National Transport Plan was discussed in Stortinget, the proposal to invest in concrete sections was rejected by all parties, except the SV, which were the proposers. In the case of CO2, it is well known that, to be careful, air traffic accounts for a very small proportion of the total emissions, and there is also a small proportion that comes from other mobile combustion. Our statistics on transport are poor or inadequate in terms of both emissions and energy use. The idea of rail excellence in both energy consumption and emissions is, to put it mildly and parliamentaryly, considerably exaggerated. So the last thing that's exciting in this case is that a lot of parties talk like there's room for action within the rule of action to spend 10-12 billion kroner more on transport. The Progress Party would be very happy to be involved in this, but we have a completely different priority than using the means on the high-speed track that we don't have at all today. We could imagine using some of the means to speed up the normal speed path that already exists. And of course, we would spend most of our time building a good road network, especially a good road network. It's investigated, as the Council of State just said, but it's of the profession itself. The whole point of addressing a more independent investigation than that of the trade union itself is precisely the word ‘independence’. There's too much inbreeding in the investigation. We need fresh eyes to look at this, and they should come from other people than the college itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-07.ana.ud612e1477	This has been an interesting debate. It is interesting that all the other political parties in the hall have suddenly become very concerned with the importance of such a large expansion as the construction of a high-speed railway in Norway. All the parties are now looking forward to the investigation. I then assume – at least with the background of the almost applause for this proposal by the other parties – that there is also an ambition to implement it. The Progress Party is often criticized because we propose to spend some of the oil money on infrastructure construction in Norway. We want to give priority to road development. Then we are often accused of having unrealistic desires, and are told that you cannot use the oil money on this, because it creates inflation and other major problems. So it's interesting to see that now you can do it all of a sudden. I assume that those who have been on the pulpit and talked so hot for a high-speed train actually believe that they intend to do this. Yes, then you have the opportunity to spend DKK 10 to 15 billion a year on the development of a high-speed rail system, but you don't have the opportunity to spend a few billion more on the proper development of our roads. It looks like we're going to have an investigation. We have a government today that makes a lot of investigations. There are a lot of project proposals coming in, maybe especially in the railway sector. We know that it is set by means, approx. Eighty-one million. kr, for new projects on the normal railway, which is then the normal railway, not on the high-speed rail. Then I get really excited, because there are two possibilities of doing a lot of projects and a lot of investigations. One is that they're put in a drawer, so you can bring them up again later. The second is that they're put right in the trash bin. I'm afraid that the investigation that there is a wish for here now, at best, will end up in the drawer. I'm afraid it's going somewhere else – when you look at the will of both the government you had in the previous period, and of the new government, to spend only minimally with extra money on the construction of infrastructure. This applies both to the road network and to the network and also to other infrastructure.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-07.ana.ud612e1488	It's been an interesting debate. But the most interesting thing – if not so spectacular, because it was known from before – is perhaps the attitude of the Progress Party in the matter. In transport elsewhere in the world, some of the most advanced things you can imagine are high-speed rail – precisely because it improves the comfort of travellers. It improves their time use, and in most cases it is also cheaper. Clearly, the progressing party has not yet seen this dimension. We're just going to hope that it comes eventually. There was a small opening when Sandberg said that the Progress Party is not against the high-speed rail, but that they are against the state paying. In the next sentence we again heard the old case that the Advance Party will grant far more for road purposes than all other parties in this hall will. Yes, I have heard a sum of over 200 billion dollars. I think it's a little weird when you're not able to see that others want to prioritize both road and rail. The question of whether or not there is room for action must be considered in the light of whether or not we want to take new and major action in the field of transport policy, as we have done in this country for generations. There shouldn't be any reason to remind you here. So a small contribution to the rapporteur on the matter, who says that she thinks it is strange that the Right in opposition comes with this proposal. Then I owe the representative that it was actually the previous government that initiated this investigation. That's what I think I'm good at. I think maybe sitting government parties, having ruled for a year, are about to stop saying that it's almost impossible to make new proposals since you've been in government responsibility for some time. I believe this debate all in all shows that the transport politicians in this House have a sincere desire to look at radical solutions that improve both the environment and the accessibility of travellers.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-07.ana.ud612e1505	I didn't really intend to participate in the debate in addition to the line that I had earlier today, but when the representative Halleraker from the Right allows himself to challenge the Progress Party in the way he does here, he will also get an answer. I find it quite unreasonable to compare high-speed rail in Norway with high-speed rails in countries where there is a basis for this. It is quite unreasonable to compare Norway — possibly Halleraker’s proposal to build a high-speed rail system in Norway — with countries with a high-quality road infrastructure exceeding Norway in all possible areas. Sigh if not the representative Halleraker is able to see the priority that the Progress Party is doing – assuming that we have a lag on maintenance on our roads of between 40 and 50 billion kroner, and we have a lag on investment in our roads of nearly 300 billion kroner, because this house with different governments behind it has been inevitable in granting enough money for us to have a qualitatively good enough standard on our roads – it would be easy to understand that there is one party in this house that takes this seriously. We do that when we say indirectly that it would be possible to build a railway in Norway, or high-speed rail, but we choose to do the task that the Right and other parties that have alternately been in government have failed to do. The job the Progress Party wants to do. Then we'll see if we get a modern, efficient infrastructure network in the long term once the Progress Party has implemented its road policy, and whether it provides enough to build something further on the railway as well. We have to stick our finger in the ground and realize that in Norway there are 4.6 million people. Unfortunately, then, the road will win competition in the socio-economic accounts, no matter how a person turns around and turns around. I had thought that the Right would be the party that was at the head to ensure that the transport economy was given priority over the socio-economic. I have registered that despite the fact that the Right has been in government and refused to grant infrastructure due to pressure in the Norwegian economy, the representative Halleraker believes that there is room within the rule of action of NOK 10-12 billion every year when it comes to rail. This is out of the question!
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-07.ana.ud612e1518	The representative Halleraker has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-07.ana.ud612e1521	I registered the unparliamentary expression to ‘hang on hold’. I'm just going to be told that it's so that Sandberg still hasn't got into the travel activity that these 4.5 million people carry out by plane every year. That's what provides the basis for such a thought. Of course, it's not because the right has suddenly become so eager to get the high-speed rail in all directions. It's because we see that it can satisfy the needs of the travellers, and that, to a large extent – we think – can also be financed by the travellers themselves, but we get to see that. This amount, drawn several times from the Official Journal of Bergen, has been broken down completely out of context. What I said was that within the 4 pst rule of action. We will be able to receive DKK 10-12 billion each year for use in the Norwegian economy. That is what I said to Bergen's Official Journal, not that it should go for special purposes.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-07.ana.ud612e1531	That's what I also underlined to those degrees. The representative Halleraker has stated that in the future there will be room within the action rule for a new 10-12 billion kroner. But then the majority in this Chamber, with the representative Halleraker at the head, should also tell the Norwegian people that if you want to build this railway and use the free, new 10-12 billions that have to come to this railway, you have to deprioritise – depriorities – other tasks that stand before us. That means there won't be any more funds to go. This means that the means that could possibly have been channelled to modernise our roads must be used on the railways. I have heard the argument about the travel pattern, and then in relation to an environmental question. And I've heard several environmental contributions here today, so I wondered if I should contact the energy and environmental fraction and get it to come and participate in the debate. But what is not mentioned at all is what you're talking about in other countries: high-speed trains that run for more than 300 km an hour lead to significant energy consumption. It's not mentioned here at all. In some environmental groupings in other countries, they protest against high-speed rail systems because the need for energy is so great. It is not mentioned in the debate at all. But of course it will come during the investigation. My reaction is in relation to the argument and criticism expressed in this Chamber to the Progress Party, because we do not want to take part in the debate on a high-speed rail, but we are looking forward to using the future space of action, with billions, to build the infrastructure on the road that everyone in this Chamber has said should be in place. There's cross-political agreement in this room that we have a aftermath and that it should be lifted. But by the fact that the same majority now will eventually decide to build high-speed trains, we can't do that. That is why the Progress Party has taken the decision that we have taken, and I think it should be respected. I have full respect for all those who have great visions in infrastructure, but then one must also do what the Progress Party does, namely to give priority. We are openly criticizing the fact that we are depriving our efforts on the railways, but then the other parties must also take the criticism that they want to down-prioritize the necessary effort to get on the road, and rather want to channel it to the railways. This also applies to the Right in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-07.ana.ud612e1542	It is interesting to listen to the possible future government parties, the Progress Party and the Right, which are therefore in disagreement in the field of transport with regard to whether they should be engaged unilaterally or whether they should also be engaged in rail as part of the transport policy here in the country. I think it is amazing that the Progress Party does not see that the transport modes must actually be seen in the context of this country as well. In populace areas, around Oslo, it would be traffic noise if we dropped out to maintain and expand the railway network further, and with a high-speed train perhaps even more would use the railway here. But of course we also have to go. So there's nothing either-- or here, it's a both-and. It must be difficult for the Progress Party to carry it alone, as the representative Sandberg pointed out, that they are the only ones who have understood the need for road development and road improvement. I would say that this government is also aware of this by being the first government that has fulfilled its national transport plan and actually implements a bet on both road and rail. I am absolutely convinced that the transport modes must be seen in the context much more than they are today in order to solve the transport challenges we have, and that they cannot be solved by being unilaterally engaged, as it may seem to be the case that the Progress Party here wants.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-07.ana.ud612e1551	It was interesting to follow the debate at the end here. Unfortunately, I haven't heard the whole debate, but it's getting a little tense – and it's polite. There are several people here who have said that it has to be seen in context, and that it has to be built out of both the railway, the road and everything. It's okay to wish that, but it's not a country that's built both parts out at the same time, is it? At an early stage, the Swedes chose to build their way out. They poured in billions, and they built a great road network. And everyone knows how nice it is in Sweden. What do the Swedes do when they're done building their roads? Well, now they're going to bet on the railroad. But they've taken things for things and built them out. This is what other countries have done. Denmark has expanded into the four-field motorway. They have even built them all the way up to the ports that have traffic to Norway, and completed them. Although there is almost no traffic on the motorway, they have built up to have it finished. And then they start on the railway. But here, in this room, you have to have everything. You have to have the railroad on every single knot around. But when it comes to the appropriations, it's not five ears to the road, not five ears to the railway. But it is a great wish – we saw that from the previous government, and we see that from this government. So I think, unfortunately, it's going to be like it's always been in this hall: very pious desires. And the maintenance and slowdown in the road sector and in the railway sector is growing bigger and bigger and going down into an infinite hole.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-07.ana.ud612e1559	Several have not asked for the floor in Case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 418]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-07.ana.ud612e1567	The size should now go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-07.ana.ud612e1590	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Karin S. Woldseth, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 3, from May-Helen Molvær Grimstad on behalf of the Christian People's Party First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: "IStortinget bet The government starts work on a ban on slot machines that can be launched from 1 January 2007.IIStoring asked the government to determine how voluntary organisations can receive state support to continue their work.IIIStoring the government initiates work to counter the development of a black gambling market.IVStoring asked the government to take action to combat online gambling."
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-07.ana.ud612e1629	The proposals are then put to the vote. 1 and 2 from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-07.ana.ud612e1668	During the debate, Mr Sortevik put forward two proposals on behalf of the Progress Party. First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 1, which reads: ‘The Government is asking the Government to launch an independent investigation into the development and financing of a modern road network in Norway. The investigation shall be carried out by foreign consultants in order to ensure professional independence and not be bound by existing road network development plans and strategies. Investigators shall assess, on a free basis, the conditions of a modern road network in Norway. On the basis of the main transport markets, socio-economic benefits resulting from the development of a national road network with greater capacity, greater speed, better traffic safety and lower elevation profile than the current main road network shall be explored. Different forms of public full funding shall also be included in the investigation. The results of the work are presented in their own parent road report to Stortinget at the latest in the autumn of 2007.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-07.ana.ud612e1689	There is an alternative proposal, proposal No. 2nd from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document No. 8:94 [[2005-2006]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-07.ana.ud612e1766	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word under Section 37(a) of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
