ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-14.ana.ud396e82	Before dealing with the issues on today’s map, the President will propose that the morning meeting – if necessary – go beyond the regulatory time, at 5 p.m. 15 until today's map has been processed. – No objections have been raised to the President’s proposal and it is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-14.ana.ud396e98	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 25 minutes and that speaking time be allocated as follows: Work Party 30 minutes, Progress Party 20 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes and Left 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of up to three lines after contributions from the main speakers of the parties and up to five lines after contributions from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-14.ana.ud396e109	We continue a race, a good and offensive race, to strengthen local welfare. The start shot was made in September 2005. Through a few weeks of harvest, the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre made a historic promise for the municipal sector, a promise that gave the municipalities a total of NOK 5.7 billion more. That promise was the first step towards securing the local school and better care for the elderly. The right said no to be on that promise, the left said no, and the Christian People's Party said no. They didn't want an extra boost, they didn't want to, for example. Sandnes would get $33 million. kr extra in relation to the arrangements for the Bondevik II administration – but note: Today they say yes, today they are based on the same financial structure that we made sure that the municipalities got in 2006. Half a year with a new government has made the Right, Christian People's Party and Left say yes. The new government has many good results to point to, and some are startling. One of the eye-catching results is that the former government parties see the need for a new and offensive bet in the municipal sector and that they have applied themselves to the same framework as we have. That's good, and it's positive. Policies work. Yesterday, SSB published figures showing that municipalities have prioritised local welfare. They used a nominal 7.9 pst. more in kindergarten, school, health and care compared to the first quarter of 2006. Let's take the nursery sector: the municipal resource use has increased by 17.4 pst. Primary: 6,5 pst. Municipal health sector: 3.1 pst. Care sector: 6.3 pst. The municipalities have shown that they prioritise local welfare, and that is a real growth we see. Corrected for price and salary growth is the growth of the entire 475 pst. in relation to these important and fundamental welfare services. This is very good, and it shows that the policy is working. Thanks to the change of government and the escalation that we have started, the municipalities together will have a growth in free income of around NOK 8 billion over the course of two years. In addition to the growth in free income, the earmarked bets amount to NOK 2–2.5 billion. The Municipal Committee has been on two domestic trips in the spring session. We've been to Akershus, and we've been to Finnmark. There have been two good trips. We've met people who have had a lot of commitment to their community, who have pointed to local challenges and the opportunities that exist. The challenges and opportunities for, for example: Karasjok and Ullensaker, which we have visited, are quite different, and these are only two out of 431 municipalities in our 19 counties. The municipalities of Karasjok and Ullensaker are very different, both in terms of geography, area and population. More than half of the municipalities have less than 5,000 inhabitants, and only 12 municipalities in Norway have over 50,000 inhabitants. We have municipalities that are larger than the counties. Therefore, it is not possible to talk about the typical Norwegian municipality. There is no unique template to place the municipal sector in. Municipalities-Norway is a diversity, it is a diversity of municipalities and of elected people. The way our country is organized, we also get a variety of solutions. There are thousands of local people who every day try to find solutions for their local environment. This work is crucial for the development of Norway. A living local democracy is the foundation of the people's rule, and it is a prerequisite for the confidence we have in the national government of Norway. There is often talk about the welfare state, while we should really talk about the welfare society, because many of the welfare systems we have in Norway have come from below, been copied by others and then become national policies. Local democracy has been a guide to the development of the welfare society. That is why it is so good that this government not only boasts of the municipal sector, but also follows up words of action. In order to be able to develop our welfare society in an efficient and adapted way, the framework conditions for municipalities must be in place and they must have the freedom to choose locally how to use the funds. It is therefore so important that the main growth of municipal incomes with the new government has come as free resources. The government has faith and confidence in the local sense. A broad majority of the Committee emphasises the importance of the local People's Rule. All, from the Right to the Left, support the clear wording that, in order to achieve equivalent services across the country, one must have a ‘public sector based on common solutions, good communities and a living government’. The long joint comment on which the former and the present government parties stand together is a great declaration of trust to Kommune-Norway. It is good that, through the committee work, we have almost come together to give honor to the municipalities and find out how important they are to solve the challenges we face around Norway. While the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party say yes to good, unbureaucratic arrangements, the Progress Party almost screams for more state bureaucracy. The progress party shows zero trust in the local sense with its setting. The Progress Party shall call for a single-cost financing and now for the innovation of «differentiated unit-price financing». How is this unit price financing going to work? Should there be any bureaucrats and calculate earmarked grants for schools in any area around the country? It's going to be a huge bureaucracy. Through its attitude, the Progress Party shows an excessive belief that you can sit in Oslo and see how you can best solve the challenges in Harstad. The main difference between the Progress Party and the government parties in relation to the municipal proposition is that while the Progress Party says yes to bureaucracy, the government parties say yes to local democracy. In 2006, the municipal sector accounted for about 10 % of the total population. NOK 260 billion in income, if you count all the income that the municipal sector has. Through the work of the Committee, we have now pointed out the direction of the municipalities' financial framework for 2007, how the distribution of these funds should be, how much to be earmarked, how much to be free, and how much growth should be in order to achieve a well-functioning municipal sector throughout the country – a municipal sector that will contribute to achieving the Government's objectives of social and geographical cohesion. The government's aim is that everyone, regardless of their place of residence, should have good basic welfare services where they live. When we choose to spend so much money on one sector, it is important that we are able to feel confident that our efforts will produce results. That's why it's so good to see the fresh figures from the SSB that, through action and through the historic promise, it's possible to start the escalation by strengthening local well-being. The Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party have started a race – we have made the first exchange, and we are in a good position.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-14.ana.ud396e139	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-14.ana.ud396e142	It is shown that the Progress Party does not trust its local politicians. On the contrary, I would argue that we have it. It is also shown that there has been an increase in the rewards of health, care, and schooling. Yes, thank local progress party politicians who have stood on and done what the Progress Party agrees on, to put forward proposals to allow money for this sector, and we have got an increase. But the messages we're getting in show that the government's people around the country aren't doing so well. My question to Mr Vedum's representative is: Can the Centre guarantee that their local politicians will sympathise with us to fill the pool, as was popularly said in the election campaign, and enough money for health, care and school in the 2007 budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-14.ana.ud396e149	The centre party is a batch both nationally and locally. I can guarantee that our people are doing what they can to improve local well-being within the framework that is. But there is no doubt that thanks to recent challenges in the municipal sector, it takes time to reverse a trend. We've started to turn that trend now. In some places we have actually begun to turn it around with advance party politicians; in other places we have begun to turn it around with labor party politicians, and I believe that elected representatives of all parties will try to find good solutions locally. That's why I'm so surprised that the Progress Party in its comments has so excessive faith in earmarking and price financing, instead of having confidence that the local progress party politicians, the local centre party people – all the local politicians – are able to find solutions within the increased framework we provide.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-14.ana.ud396e154	The government parties make sure that the municipalities can now take cabin taxes from everyone. It is no surprise that the Workers' Party and SV introduce this unsolidar and undemocratic tax. Both parties are too much tax. The Workers' Party will even increase the property tax – according to Today's Business. The fact that the Center Party is now taking part in this tax journey is amazing. The principles and actions of the Centre Party for 2005-2009 only state that: «municipal property tax shall be maintained as a voluntary scheme». [[...]] It also states that the centre party will not ‘tax dwellings with standard housing standards’. How does this harmonize with the fact that the Centre Party has now been involved in extending the property tax regime? And can we now assume as a matter of course that the Center Party will also go in for a further increase in property tax?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-14.ana.ud396e166	It's true, as the representative Kari Lise Holmberg says, that the Center Party is fundamentally skeptical of property taxes. It is also true, as the representative Holmberg says, that in our program we have said that it should be decided by the individual local government and democracy. That's why we've been involved in the change that's now being made, and left to the local political processes to decide whether to introduce property taxes and where to go the limit on property taxes. In my area, at least the Central Party is very clear that in local elections we do not want to carry out property taxes, and then it will be up to the voters in the next fall whether they want to have property taxes carried out in their area or not. I think most of the central party communities are skeptical and want the freedom to choose.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-14.ana.ud396e171	The Christian People's Party is pleased with the increased transfers to the municipalities. It means more money for school, care, kindergarten and culture in Kommune-Norway. And we are happy that there is growth in free means, because we have confidence in our local politicians. I disagree with the rapporteur's statement on one point. Growth did not start after the 2005 elections, it started before. The number of annual jobs in primary schools started to increase earlier, and kindergartens started to increase in the previous period. It's good that it increases. It'll be better well-being. There was talk in the post about the historic promise, in singular. Wasn't this about an escalating plan? And my question is, what do the next steps in this escalation plan look like, and where do they go?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-14.ana.ud396e180	The Bondevik II government proposed to increase the free revenues by SEK 1.9 billion for 2006. We added $3.8 billion, so it was $5.7 billion. In addition, we've seen that the tax revenue of the municipalities has increased, so it's become even greater than what we promised to implement in last year's budget. So it's a massive and clear escalation we've been doing this year. That was the first step, and we also show in this year's municipal economic proposal that we continue that growth. And the growth that we're continuing with this year is based on last year's basis. That's why there's been a growth of 8 billion dollars in two years, and it's a historic boost for the local government sector. We're going to continue this escalation in the next few years we're in government.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-14.ana.ud396e187	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-14.ana.ud396e191	The municipal bill now presented proves that the Government is following up its promises to strengthen the municipal economy. After all, the starting point of this year's proposal is, as the rapporteur has pointed out, the change in the pace that took place in relation to the treatment of the financial arrangements for municipalities this year. It was a historic uplift – with an extra SEK 3.8 billion – the 5.7 billion that municipalities received in increased revenues from last year to this year. It was the case that last fall we experienced a historical debate in Stortinget – and I think we may not experience it again – namely that the opposition criticized the government parties for giving too much money to the municipalities. The new information contained in the revised national budget is also part of the basis for the next year’s proposal. That's how the municipalities get 800 million. kr more in tax, the government pays out 700 million. kr more for use in kindergartens, and with other adjustments, the figures now show that the growth in municipal income from 2005 to 2006 will be SEK 7.1 billion. It's a historical boost, and it provides better opportunities for well-being. Next year's arrangement continues with a new increase of DKK 4–5 billion, or DKK 2–2.5 billion in free income, giving room for 2,000 more people in the care sector, continuing to strengthen activities in the kindergarten sector, and not least following the psychiatry escalation plan. So when the proposition is now being discussed, it's obvious that the government is following up what it has said. We're going to have more common well-being instead of more tax havens. So the discussion goes on about the free means of well-being. We have already discussed this earlier in the debate. Yes, so the difference between Bondevik's plans for municipalities and the Stoltenberg government's plans for municipalities has been proven to give more activity primarily in the care of the elderly, more activity in the school sector and more focus on kindergartens. So when the Progress Party says we can't give free money because we can't trust the local politicians, it's wrong. Better urban economy provides more well-being. One of the important discussions in the relationship between municipalities is how the income system is organised. An investigation was presented by the so-called Borge Committee, which resulted in the Government's main choice of leaving the sample, or rather, following up the same investigation through a new policy-making selection. A lot of people are happy about it. We are pleased because quite a number of district municipalities, especially those with relocation problems, came out badly in the Borge Committee's investigation, and it was not least so that those municipalities that had large growth and challenges related to, among other things. investment in this context also appeared poorly. And those municipalities in Norway that have the least to help their inhabitants with, the minimum income municipalities, were also largely poorly investigated by the Borge Committee. That's why I'm glad we're going to have a new review of it, which is going to give a fairer distribution of municipal income. As the rapporteur said, the municipal economy has risen to a new level. The level is continued and strengthened through this proposition. I am very pleased that there is a broad consensus – also with the former government parties. There are a lot of concessions that the previous government parties are now accepting the new level for which we were criticized last autumn. And not only that, in addition to accepting the level, we have common comments on the role of municipalities in welfare and in finding solutions in common. That's good. It is such in the position that in these areas only the Progress Party is clearly distinct. They want a different social model than what we have in the Nordic region. The Nordic welfare model has resulted in Norway being repeatedly identified by the United Nations as the best country in the world to live in, because we have a good economy and because income and well-being are so evenly distributed. That's the whole idea behind the Nordic welfare model. I'm glad that the Progress Party is alone in wanting to get away from that model of social development, which has produced as good results as here in the Nordic region.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-14.ana.ud396e212	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-14.ana.ud396e215	The representative is likely to take a little too much time when he indirectly claims that Norway’s good welfare systems, which have been properly referred to, include: by the UN, not necessarily about how we fund Norwegian municipalities. I think we should have it a little bit in the back of our heads. But there's something here that seems a little bit special. We have a situation where we've been through a campaign where a lot of money was really promised for municipal services, not least to strengthen the very basic services around Municipality-Norway. When the government is now adding up to a growth of DKK 2 billion, perhaps DKK 2 1/2 billion, in free money, it is a little difficult to see that it is a reality follow-up to the hard rhetoric that was used in the election campaign, and not least what came here – with pride – after the 2006 budget was presented. Isn't this going to be a little bit small in relation to the rhetoric that the red-greens had in the election campaign?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-14.ana.ud396e222	No, that's exactly what we said in the election campaign. This is one of the areas where we obviously deliver exactly what we said. We are primarily providing an increase in free income, as we said, and as the representative Amundsen, at least in parts of the adjustment, is skeptical to – while the Progress Party in other parts of the adjustment is for more free resources, for example. in the case of corporation tax. That's how we follow up exactly what we promised, and essentially we're following up on free money. That's why I'm glad that both the studies we've done among our active municipal politicians, and the figures that are today confirmed by the SSB, prove that better finances for municipalities provide more care for the elderly, more for school and more for kindergarten development. There is no doubt that the way in which we have allocated Community funds – that everyone has equal access to services through a public service system – is one of the main explanations that we have received the ranking we have received from the UN, year after year.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-14.ana.ud396e229	The right has never criticized the Government for giving too much money to the local government sector. The fact that we have a different view of the total budget is another matter. But there was no lack of beautiful words and great promises in the election campaign. Everything would be so much better with a new government. An empty swimming pool would end, and there would be a warm lunch for the school students. There would be more teachers and more money for maintenance. The government has continued its economic efforts that started in 2004 and continued in 2005, but the expectations created in the election campaign are very close. The reality is that there is a huge gap between the promises made by key politicians and the policies now implemented in practice. Does not the representative Dag Terje Andersen find it problematic that central politicians in this way contribute to undermining local self-government and reducing confidence in politicians? Isn't it hard to relate to central smiles and local cuts, to quote Anders Folkestad in Unio?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-14.ana.ud396e238	This year has been quite special because we have experienced relatively many municipalities that have been relieved because they have ended up in a new situation after the government change. Therefore the description of Holmberg becomes quite special. Otherwise, I just have to say that from the Labour Party we have never promised any warm lunch, so there the representative has to correct his reality. The representative Holmberg then said that the investment in the municipal sector began in 2004 and 2005. What was the reality in 2004 was that the Workers' Party pushed up the appropriations for the municipalities in the negotiations with the government. The following year the appropriations for the municipalities were increased in Stortinget. So at the end of last year we got an unexpected high tax increase. The reality is that when things didn't go as bad as we thought in the municipalities in 2005, and in part also in 2004, it is despite the then State Council Erna Solberg. Fortunately, her proposal was voted down in Stortinget, and so the municipalities were not as bad as it would be with the Right proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-14.ana.ud396e245	The Christian People's Party is concerned that we should have a fair income system in Kommune-Norway. The representative said in his statement that the Government has set up the Borge Committee for a new selection to look at an income system that takes into account, to a greater extent than the Borge Committee, relocation municipalities, municipalities with growth and district municipalities. It's positive. But the Christian People's Party is a little surprised that there have been signs that it is only the government parties that are supposed to be in the political committee that are going to investigate a matter as important as a new income system for the municipalities. All parties would like to participate and contribute to a fair and good income system. What does the representative think about it?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-14.ana.ud396e250	As you know, we in Stortinget are not setting up government committees, so that question might well go to the Government first and foremost. But I defend this government's conclusion, that the sample will lay the foundation for the political device on the income system that this government can stand behind. Otherwise, I can say that nothing would please me more than about both the Christian People's Party and the Left, and in part – according to the position – actually the Right – will help to discuss a fairer distribution of municipal income in the future. So I can at least promise the representative that when the committee is going to deal with these matters, I will greatly appreciate whether the Christian People's Party wants to be an active participant in designing the future income system in the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-14.ana.ud396e257	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-14.ana.ud396e260	The policy of the Progress Party towards the municipalities is essentially two things. Firstly, it is about local democracy, local governance, and, secondly, the provision of basic services at a national level. We already hear in the debate that there is a very strong criticism that the Progress Party wants a different system. It is true that we want a different system in relation to the financing of many of the services that are currently under the municipalities. It's about the basic welfare services. It's about care for the elderly, it's about school, it's about social services. We want to move them out of today's system, where the municipalities are granting that money, and make it a national task to finance it. The concept of ‘high-price financing’ is nothing more than the need to trigger the payment for, for example: a hospital or school place. Thus, it is not the economy of each municipality that should be decisive for the quality of important welfare services. Here, there are differences between municipalities. So let's do that inwards. There are services and offers that are more important than others. This is what we take the consequences of when we raise basic welfare services at national level and provide them with needs-driven funding. Then we actually have two thoughts in our head at the same time. If it is a party that really wants to strengthen local democracy, then it is the Progress Party. We want municipalities to be much more able to manage their own services in addition to the basic services, for example: in the case of land management – in a number of areas. Here is the point where real local democracy must function, where real local governance is crucial. Here we will give the municipalities much greater power, but at the same time keep good public services, the basic welfare services, at national level. Of course, we recognise the situation today. Infusing a new system is not done overnight. Until we get priced funding, i.e. need-driven financing of basic welfare services, we need to take some action to ensure that the municipalities follow up, that they follow the promises made by the government, not least on behalf of the municipalities. Then we have to label it. We're also going to do that in our alternative state budget. We have notified that, and we also have proposals today that add up to it. In fact, while we see the need to earmark, we also see the need to increase the framework transfers to municipalities within today's system. That's why it becomes a little special when it was the government parties that talked so much about the importance of local economy throughout the election campaign, that we are actually the ones who have put forward proposals that will increase the income of the municipality of Norway. We go further than the Government – at NOK 1 billion – because we realize that there are a number of challenges in Norwegian municipalities – this concerns the NAV reform and not least the annual care and care activities promised by the Government. This also applies in the maintenance of public building stock, which is estimated to be between 40 billion kroner and 60 billion kroner. The need out in Kommune-Norway within today's system is far greater than what the Government adds up to. We take the consequences of this and propose an additional allocation, where we at the same time warn that we want to earmark parts of this, just to ensure that it is the basic welfare services that are prioritised by the individual municipalities. Although this comes up with claims – and figures – from representatives of the government parties that the money is used in relation to the choices made, not least in the care of the elderly, we have other analyses and other figures that indicate the exact opposite. There are considerable differences between the different municipalities. In any case, we note that in the case of the Progress Party municipalities, we have been able to give priority to basic welfare tasks – not least the care of the elderly. There are considerable differences between municipalities here. If we're going to go into some points in the municipal proposition, there's some grip that needs to be taken. In the past, we have helped to create a VAT compensation system that would ensure that we got real equality in competition between private and public enterprises just to promote competition and competitive outsourcing in the production of municipal services. We now see that this arrangement has become quite heavy. This has led to increased bureaucracy, and that is not the perfect way to organise it. That is why we have a proposal here to streamline this system so that municipalities have good systems to ensure equal treatment between private and public enterprises, but at the same time without building too much bureaucracy. I hope the Government is willing to take a closer look at that proposal. Then you hear accusations coming here against the previous government, which the Progress Party in several of the budgets helped to support. The promise we are talking about in the Norwegian community economy did not start this year. It started in the last period, under the previous government – with pressure and support from the Progress Party. I think you should be so fair in that discussion that you realize it. The numbers' speech is ready. This is a promise that has been made by several batches – not just the government batches, as some try to give the impression. With the increases you're raising to today, I find that you're actually talking about a zero growth rate for the municipalities. Taking into account the increased challenges facing municipalities both in terms of tasks and follow-up, the government had to follow its own rhetoric, the appropriations had to be greater. It's a fact, and the numbers are ready. I call for a certain degree of audacity in this debate, for here it is actually the Progress Party that takes this situation inward and proposes increasing appropriations to the municipalities. Here, there is a slight difference between the rhetoric used in the election campaign, the rhetorical government used in the 2006 state budget and the realities on the table today in this document. I note that there is a great deal of interest here in criticising the Progress Party and our primary position on the municipalities. We have two thoughts in our head at the same time. We're dealing with today's system, but we're doing some work to improve the local authorities' situation. First of all, we want to improve the services, and so we have a completely different system. In fact, the user-driven system, which is actually part of our price financing, is something that several municipalities run by the red-green, by the government parties, introduce locally. There are a number of examples of municipalities that implement local unit-price financing within their municipal and municipal budgets, because it is an efficient way of distributing funds. Then there will be something hidden in the criticism that comes against the Progress Party, and that we want to use a more efficient system. The problem with respect to the municipalities that individually implement local unit-price financing is, of course, that when the budget is used up, it is exhausted. But with our system, there will be the need for a nursing home, the need for a school place, which will be crucial, and automatically trigger subsidies from the state. So we have a completely different system that guarantees basic welfare services. The Labour Party, SV and the Centre Party are clearly much more concerned with strengthening the general economy of the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-14.ana.ud396e291	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-14.ana.ud396e295	When it comes to criticism of the structure of the Progress Party, it is made difficult by the fact that the representatives of the Progress Party are so small in terms of how their system will turn out. The Progress Party will change the income system for municipalities through a single-cost financing of the care of the elderly and the schools. We in the Workers' Party have challenged the Progress Party on how this will affect the individual municipality, which they either will not or can not say about. The Progress Party has programmed that they want less cohesion between municipalities. We are therefore concerned about how the new scheme will affect the many small municipalities in Norway, for example. Play in the Nord-Trøndelag, with 600 inhabitants, even if the price financing is to be differentiated. I would like to ask the following questions to the Progress Party, and then Amundsen will be given the opportunity to be concrete: Will the proposals of the Progress Party for a system of price financing lead to less cohesion between municipalities, in line with the programme of the Progress Party? How much will small municipalities like Leka possibly lose on this? And where in their relatively small budgets are they going to save this reduction?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-14.ana.ud396e306	What's said here, of course, is wrong at first. Through our system, we're moving somewhere between 70 pst. and 80 pst. of today's municipal budget for direct financing of important services, such as care, care for the elderly, schools, social services, etc. This is ensured by the differentiation of the unit price, so that the services in each municipality are ensured, and that municipalities will receive equal services throughout the country. The remainder is up to the municipality to deal with itself. There we want a great deal of freedom, both in terms of taxation and other things, so that the municipalities can control this even more. Our point is: with our system, all municipalities will be guaranteed a level and good level of basic welfare services. What it's like about the cultural houses around is another thing. It is up to the local government itself to give priority. But we want to ensure equally good services across the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-14.ana.ud396e311	It's not right what Per-Willy Amundsen here answers. The 2006 budget clearly states that the Progress Party will reduce the basic grant by 50 pst, remove the North Norway grant and remove the regional grant. We've figured out what the consequences will be if you do that. For the part of the country from which Per-Willy Amundsen comes, transfers to the municipal sector, including the county municipality, will be reduced in the billion class – for the county municipality by 400 million. kr alone. For the municipality of Harstad, from which Amundsen comes, the budget will be reduced by over 40 million. kr. Clearly, this affects schools. It affects health, it affects public transport, and it affects high school. How can Amundsen explain that this will not be the consequences? We've figured it out, so he has to tell us clearly how to ensure that the municipalities avoid cutbacks by making these changes in the transmission system.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-14.ana.ud396e318	It is possible that I express myself unclearly, and it is well possible that this is hard to understand. But the point is that, through the differentiated unit price paid centrally to each service provider, we guarantee an equally good level across the country. Then the costs that may have small municipalities and that may have climatic conditions etc. to be safeguarded by precisely differentiating the unit price. The problem has been removed from its context. The calculations with which the government parties have operated, and which I understand are based here, are completely wrong. They're totally wrong about our policies. I just record that the Ministry of Local Affairs has been used here to count on the policies of the Progress Party on a completely wrong basis. The starting point is wrong, and then the result is also wrong. We want to ensure equal services in all municipalities. Then we talk about the basic welfare services, no matter where it is in the country, and no matter how large the municipality is.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-14.ana.ud396e325	I have listened with interest to Per-Willy Amundsen's posts. To his belief in local democracy and the price financing, I would say – a bit of Nordnorwegian whining – that I have discovered that the Progress Party must have its own calculator and its own method of calculation. Back to local democracy: After many years of local and regional policy, I find that there is little connection between what is said by the representative and the desire to invest in local democracy. Government governance is a mantra in the production of the Progress Party. With regard to price financing: we have run a very comprehensive project in connection with price financing. Everyone, possibly with the exception of the Advance Party, agreed that this was not a good order. What experience is there in the Progress Party that shows that price financing is the way to solve the problems?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-14.ana.ud396e334	We see in several municipalities that introduce this locally, that it is the way to go to ensure an efficient allocation of resources in each municipality. That's the one. But the second is that this is about ensuring equivalent offers across the country. Today, in one municipality, if you need a hospitalized place, you can risk the municipality not setting up, while in another municipality, the conditions are better. Here, through national appropriations and national unit prices, we want to ensure that the offer is consistent across the country. This works very well, and it is a bit interesting to see that representatives of the government parties in the municipalities obviously have a slightly different opinion than the government parties here in the house. I am addressing the proposals of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-14.ana.ud396e341	The representative Per-Willy Amundsen has taken up the suggestions he referred to. The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-14.ana.ud396e346	We can state that, with the exception of the Progress Party, which has a completely different system of financing the municipalities, there is a broad consensus on the level of the municipalities' financial autonomy in 2007. The positive economic growth observed in the municipality sector from 2004 onwards. The government writes in the municipal proposition: ‘The consistently good operating performance in 2005 indicates that the municipal sector has achieved a long-term economic balance.’ Furthermore, the Government concludes with the presentation by the Technical Calculation Committee of the situation in the April 2006 report. It reads as follows: ‘The scheme implies that the relatively high revenue weight in 2004 and 2005 will be continued in 2006’.» In order to use Hagas State Council’s own words in relation to the municipal economy in 2004 and 2005, the scheme of the red-green government means that the hunger feeding of the municipalities continues. But with reference to the previous speeches, I think the municipalities prefer this diet, rather than the Forced Feeding of the Advance Party. The three former government parties believe that a greater proportion of the municipal money must come as free income. That's why we're saying that we're going to give municipalities at least NOK 2–2.5 billion in growth in free revenues in 2007. We are also pleased that we in the Government have had a positive impact on getting a further review and liquidation of earmarked grants. Although we can establish that there is a broad political consensus about the overall level of municipalities, there is a great deal of disagreement about both distribution, arrangements and what are the challenges of municipalities in the years to come. One of the worst things about this proposition is that the government is removing the gain for the municipalities that have been good at facilitating business. The whole purpose of this system was to reward the fine yes municipalities that provide opportunities for the companies. But this gain they now have to look a long way behind. The government changes the rules in the middle of the competition and moves to competition in an ideal time – in a good social democratic spirit. The fact that municipalities get about the same amount as in 2006 is not the point. Municipalities who have done a good job lose the winnings with the Government’s plans – and perhaps also the motivation. This is unfortunate when our country relies on business to ensure revenue for our common well-being. The major challenge facing Norway and its municipalities in the years to come will not be a lack of money, but a lack of skilled labour. This year's wage settlement is a pretense that if this challenge is not taken seriously, the increased financial autonomy of municipalities will result not in better services but in higher wages. Many groups in the municipal sector who work with children, care and municipal services deserve better pay. But if this doesn't meet with cuts in bureaucracy and administration, this is going to go wrong. In the care sector, there is a particular need for more qualified staff. The right has promoted its own comprehensive proposal on how we can meet this need. This challenge cannot be tackled by local authorities alone. The state and government must get on the road. Norway is an administered country. In the evening post on Tuesday we see that the government has plans to go in the wrong direction. We can now risk getting four levels of government in this country. In a small country like Norway, we do not need county and regions. We've got enough bureaucracy. Right will rather spend people and money on care and school. One of the main reasons the Council of State uses to have regions is to maintain today's municipal structure. The extension of the responsibilities of municipalities is, in the opinion of the Council of State, the same as facilitating the bundling of municipalities. The right considers that municipalities need to grow and strengthen in order to provide high-quality services to citizens and take responsibility for creating new opportunities locally. The centralisation of regions in which we now see the contours is, in contrast, a policy for the impoverishment of the Commune-Norway. The municipalities are hungry fed under responsibility and larger arms. Letting this be a carrot to get freewill aggregation is the right medicine – not smile class, as the Government prescribes. I will take up the suggestions on which the right is included in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-14.ana.ud396e378	The representative Bent Höie has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-14.ana.ud396e383	The representative, Höie, has spent a lot of time trying to rewrite history to improve the legacy of former municipal minister Erna Solberg, both in this post and in various municipal debates during the first year of this ageing period. This is how Bent High has appeared as a knight on behalf of the former Council of State, and there may obviously be a need for that. But will it not be a little out of the ordinary when the representative Höie now talks about the beginning of a growth in the municipal economy while the daily lives of the municipalities were cut – and cut so dramatically that the last time during the previous government even decreased the efforts of the elderly in some municipalities – when the reality is that the Stortinget increased by 3.8 billion in 2006, 3 billion in 2005, 2.2 billion in 2004 and 1 billion in 2003 in relation to the proposals of the Council of State for the State budget, and when the reality is that the lost honor and the bad aftermath of the previous Council of State is really her own fault, and that the Stortinget has contributed to the situation being something better than the Council of State had set up?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-14.ana.ud396e388	The representative, Dag Terje Andersen's problem, and the government's problem, and especially the government council, Hagas's problem, is that they are now forced to deal with their own department to write into propositions the truth of the local economy that we presented when we were in government, and that we present in opposition. With regard to the claim from Dag Terje Andersen on cutbacks in the care sector, I would like to read from the report from the Technical Calculation Committee, which says that in the largest municipal sectors – primary school and care and care – the service provision in 2005 was marked by great stability in the sense that service production has grown roughly as the number of older people and the number of students grew. This shows that the claims made by the representative Andersen are incorrect. What is the main reason for the good development in Kommune-Norway is not least the increased tax revenue that municipalities receive as a result of a business-friendly policy that the previous government led, in contrast to the current government, which adorns itself with a jewelry box and empty words, which will affect municipalities in the long term.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-14.ana.ud396e398	The right has, after all, underlined several times in the form of a note that you believe in the local government and that you want to strengthen the local government. However, the Right goes along with the Advance Party to refuse the municipalities to extend the property tax area. There is a NOU 1996:20, at the Zimmer Committee, which states that there are no logical grounds for distinguishing between the city and the rest of the municipality in the case of property taxes. But the right goes against it. Is it then that the Right is only in favour of local people's rule when it is in line with Right's policy, or is it in favour of a real government of the people and is it really in the hands of the municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-14.ana.ud396e405	The change in the property tax law proposed by the Government is fundamentally undemocratic and unsocial, for this expansion allows municipalities to introduce the so-called cab tax. The whole reason for the municipal property tax and for the Right not to vote against the property tax law is that we believe that it is up to local democracy to introduce a municipal property tax, if any. But it assumes that the voters affected by this municipal property tax can, through elections, get rid of the politicians who introduce it, if they are against it. The change in the property tax law proposed here by the Government is fundamentally undemocratic because it allows municipalities to significantly tax owners who do not live in the municipality, i.e. those who have cabins in the municipality. This will result in municipalities receiving an additional gain in many ways by extending the property tax. Thus, many district municipalities will now introduce property taxes and are in line to introduce property taxes. It's a development that the Right is opposed to.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-14.ana.ud396e412	I have a line in relation to corporate tax. The representative Bent Höie is very dissatisfied that we are reducing the percentage of corporation tax. We see that if we had continued today's rate, the increase in tax revenue on corporation tax would be about. $1.1 billion next year. Instead of giving that tax increase on corporate tax, we have given it to income tax, because we know that it gives a much better distribution effect – that all municipalities get to share in the growth, not just a few. In my own county, Hedmark, it would only be Hamar who had participated in the income growth of the municipal sector in the form of taxes next year, in 2007. Does the representative Höie think it would be logical and correct that in a state like Hedmark there is only one municipality that will grow, while the others will lose because of the redistribution that would happen if we continued to grow in corporate taxes?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-14.ana.ud396e419	That reply shows that the Centre Party is now moving at high speed from its own large-scale selection programme on which they made their choice during this large-scale period. The Central Party electoral programme says that they want municipalities to retain a greater share of corporate tax. What this line shows is that this government is likely to propose not only the reduction in corporate tax that they have now proposed, but in the context of changes in the income system, it will eliminate it entirely in the light of the argument used by the representative here. It will be dramatic for the basis of our well-being, because it will provide municipalities that are not motivated to create new tax revenues and thus create a better basis for well-being. The Arendal rapporteur, Toril Rolstad Larsen of the Workers' Party, is disappointed by what the Government here has proposed, for her municipality is losing about 80 million. kr. My own municipality, Stavanger, is losing 85.5 million. SEK in corporate tax, but if you look at what they get compensated for by the 1.3 million allocated to the new system, the total loss is between 60 million. And $70 million. kr. There is money that the municipality would like to use, a gain that it would like to have had, not least because it has attracted business from abroad that had otherwise settled in other countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-14.ana.ud396e426	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-14.ana.ud396e429	Right, Christian People's Party and Left, on page 9 of the setting, they're satisfied with the Government. As an opposition, they actually have no choice but to admit it. No one can doubt that this government prioritises growth in the local economy. Bet on the municipalities is an important part of the recipe to achieve the goals our three parties have set in the Soria Moria Declaration. We've started the basic work: we're about to give Kommune-Norway more secure economic ground, and that's the opposition minus the Progress Party satisfied with. Or as the three former government parties put it – they are pleased that the government is following up the good development of the local economy. Because this is a rise. And we're going to be so bold as to admit that 2005 was also a pretty good year for the municipalities' economy. But the activity was low, and the cuts also continued, according to the Technical Calculation Committee. Now we're getting both growth in income and activity. During our first two years of government, the free revenues will be raised by 8 billion kroner – 8 billion! We generated a growth in free income of SEK 5.7 billion in our first common budget. We're increasing by SEK 3.9 billion compared to the last budget of the Bondevik government. We're going to continue the level to next year, and we're going to add $2.50 billion to new revenue. Upon this, money will also be granted, approx. 2 billion kroner, for ear-marked purposes. And then what is the money spent on? Studies show that municipalities spend money on increasing well-being. 80 pst. by the municipalities, it is possible for this year to ensure or increase efforts for the elderly. An equal proportion of our municipalities are able to secure or increase school effort. It shows a review of what municipalities have used increased freedom of action to do. Very many municipalities have spent their money hiring more people in the care of the elderly and strengthening school provision. The feedback from the municipal sector is that they have room to build new kindergartens, to hire more people in care and to invest in libraries and culture. The main point is that the scheme for 2006 and 2007 provides a basis for growth and increased activity. The figures for 2005 show that municipalities have achieved a net operating surplus of more than 3 pst. In the first year, the red-green spin-off has prevented new cuts in teaching positions, care provision and cultural offerings and increased SFO rates. The last ten years have been a time of trial for Kommune-Norway. The deficits have increased. Well over 100 municipalities did not end up meeting. They were subject to state control and placed on the ROBEK list. That's why it's a little pathetic when the Progress Party believes that the government doesn't keep the promises. The first two red-green budgets are actually the best for Municipality-Norway since the mid-1990s. The government has also entered into close cooperation with the municipalities through the KS to establish a plan for the creation of the imbalance in the local economy. These include: whether the large lag in the maintenance of barley is likely to be around $40 billion. If anyone is in doubt, nothing in this context will be more important than enabling the municipalities to catch up and carry out the maintenance tasks. SV wants the monument after the first periods of red-green government to be school-building that it shines off, not worn-out schools where the paint chips and molds take over. The Government shall also review the income system. Follow-up to the setting up of the Borge Committee is under way, and this will be promoted for treatment in the Municipal Proposition for 2009. SV voted against the partial return of the company tax to the municipalities proposed by the Bondevik government. We see that the corporate tax has resulted in bad results for the vast majority of municipalities, not least in the districts and pronounced commuting municipalities. An intervention in the income system carried out in the 2007 scheme is that language training for linguistic minorities goes from designation to partial inclusion in the framework grant. However, the distribution between municipalities is frozen here. We have also commented on this in a note that assumes that municipalities that experience strong growth in language training for minorities must also receive funding. SV shall keep track of this. Some brief comments on the alternative budget of the Progress Party: the sum of proposals and comments will in practice mean the abolition of local democracy. Instead, the Progress Party will have the award funding of – and hold your breath, President! – «basic welfare services such as health care, primary, secondary and social services». In practice, the Progress Party puts its trust in the State. And then the Progress Party claims that state-wide price financing for elderly care, school and social services will give less bureaucracy than that done through municipalities. Merry Christmas, I say. Has the Progress Party considered the state bureaucracy that needs to be built up – in Oslo – in order to determine what changing services and needs grandma has in 90 years? The Progress Party proposed for the current year changes in the income system, including the removal of: grants to the smallest municipalities and the North Norway grant, which would ruin the well-being and jobs of the districts. [[The President clubs.]] Finally, a stepping up of the local economy is necessary, among other things. in order to implement the promise of knowledge and to achieve the target of 10000 more annual works of care and care. [[The President clubs.]] The centre party, SV and the Workers' Party are engaged in a cooperation that is important for the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-14.ana.ud396e461	The president held his breath, but had to give up, as it went far beyond speaking time. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-14.ana.ud396e466	I heard a Christmas greeting. I'm a little unsure if you're late, or if you're extra early this year. In the period 2000–2001, when SV was in opposition, we promoted a joint proposal with SV. It was supposed to have a funding scheme for particularly resource-intensive users in the municipalities, and to have an entry point of NOK 600 000. I experience SV as a social party. Why has SV not followed up the proposal with the Progress Party during this period?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-14.ana.ud396e473	It is true that, in the past, there has been a bad scheme for municipalities in relation to resource-intensive users. There is a problem area that this government is addressing and on which proposals have been made. This mechanism shall be improved during the period and it is also proposed in the budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-14.ana.ud396e478	On Wednesday 24 May, the representative of Hansen's colleague Olav Gunnar Ballo had a good and thought-provoking article in the world. I am also aware that the Swedish national government is going to deal with a consultation round on regions if not too long. In this article, the representative Olav Gunnar Ballo questions what is really the need in relation to these new regions. He says, ‘There may be grounds for asking for the benefit of a third level of government in a country with well over half of the population of London, where the entire population of Norway would be a minority in a number of provinces of France, the regions of Italy and the Länder of Germany.’ The title of this article was: «What is the question of whose major regions are the answers?» I would like to repeat this question to the representative, Hansen, and I ask: «What is the question of whose large regions are the answers?»
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-14.ana.ud396e488	The question is, what can we do to strengthen democracy in the country, and what can we do to strengthen local democracy in the country? Then transfers of tasks from the central level to the regional and local level are the answer. SV has entered for it. It has been programmed in two national meetings, and we are now together in the red-green government to implement it. I'm very happy about that. But we have the whole spectrum of opinions in SV about this view, and Olav Gunnar Ballo has one of those opinions. But SV will be involved in implementing a democratisation reform, as this regional reform will be.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-14.ana.ud396e497	I am pleased that the representative Geir-Ketil Hansen says that the current government is following the good development of the previous government in terms of local economy. It's a right representation of reality, and it's a reality that the Christian People's Party enjoys. But in any case, it does not only help to increase transfers to the municipalities if the ambitions with the funds are greater than the amounts of money should be. Is it not a danger that we will reach the increase in the forthcoming state budget, which is a bit ambitious, in order to meet both the increased costs of population development, the costs of the NAV reform and 2 000 jobs in health and care? What is it then for maintenance? Aren't the ambitions a little big?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-14.ana.ud396e502	I'm glad that this government has high ambitions, and you've started very well. Free income has been increased by over DKK 8 billion in the first two years. It is a formidable promise in relation to the previous government, of which the Christian People's Party was part. We have now concluded a cooperation agreement with the municipalities and KS on an escalation plan such as: shall ensure that maintenance in the municipalities is re-established and strengthened. So the ambitions are going to be high, and the goals we've set ourselves, we're going to be able to achieve over this four-year period.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-14.ana.ud396e507	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-14.ana.ud396e510	The Christian People's Party believes that society is best built from below. We believe in local democracy, that those who wear the shoe know where it prints. This means that we trust the local people and believe that they are making a wholehearted effort to ensure a good kindergarten, quality in school, a worthy care for the elderly and a wide range of cultural services for all the municipality's inhabitants. That is why we want to give the municipalities good framework conditions. It's hard to say where the boundary goes for a good local economy. We've seen that expenditure is increasing a lot in the municipal sector, despite the fact that we now have increased transfers to municipalities for several years in a row. It wants the Christian People's Party to take seriously, and therefore we are pleased with the increased funds that are signalled to the municipalities. However, we are opening up to increase the appropriations allocated to the municipalities in addition to what the Government has announced in the municipal bill, because the increase of NOK 2–2.5 billion in free money for the municipalities has to go on. A simple calculation shows that the increase in free income between DKK 2 and 2.5 billion will be used as follows: DKK 1.4 billion will cover the increased costs of population development with more older and more secondary school students, approximately DKK 1 billion will be committed to the creation of new annual work in the care sector, and several hundred million will go to municipal expenditure on the NAV reform. This is going to be more than the increase in free resources. In addition, increased salaries are paid to employees in the municipal sector. Then we have not brought KS’ wishes for more money for annual ongoing maintenance. There will be little money left to increase economic space to strengthen the school, fill water in the pool, to mention some areas. The government has created great expectations in Kommune-Norway, but I'm afraid it doesn't meet expectations. The government has a little too much ambition in relation to the free resources of the municipalities. The government also proposes that municipalities should streamline with 0.25 pst. 600 million. kr which in that case must be cut. Money must be cut on the same budgets, for example. to industrial development, culture and health, to realise the efficiency improvement. Increased frameworks for municipalities should give municipalities greater financial space and greater freedom to decide on their own bets. There will be no greater freedom when it is said that the increase will be used to hire 2,000 more people in the care service. The promises given, both to schools and kindergartens, are difficult to deal with, because the money can only be used once. The government has achieved a high fall altitude with the promises of the Soria Moria Declaration. It does not follow up its own announced escalating plan in relation to the transfer to the municipalities. There are now more basins "to be emptied than to be filled" in our country on 3 June. But the solution is not, as the Progress Party and the LO say, to designate the funds, but to give the municipalities an increased space for action. Local authorities must be given the opportunity to expand their services and improve the provision of welfare on the basis of their own priorities. The Christian People's Party will require a broader composition of the new sample to prepare proposals for a new income system. KS should participate in the sample. All lots on the Stortinget should be represented. It would have been a great advantage for the work on the new income system if KS had actively participated, because it had led to a better process both in the KS and in the municipalities, which had made the new system more robust. The management of the government may open up a rapid rematch over the entire income system. The new system will work from 2009 onwards, the same year as the major choice. If there is strong political leadership, it will create unnecessary political debate and cause a new government to make changes. It creates an unpredictable situation for the municipalities, and it's a little short-sighted. We need robust solutions in terms of local economy. We create them together. The Christian People's Party will stress that in the committee there are many things that you have found together. It is positive, and it provides a good basis for further cooperation on important issues, such as: resource-intensive users. The legislation relating to the municipal proportion should be reviewed with a view to a fair distribution between municipalities. The municipal component of the scheme for particularly resource-intensive users should be reduced during the period. I also want to challenge the government parties to join a cross-political uplift in the care of the elderly in the coming time. A successful ageing plan has been implemented with cross-political efforts using NOK 40 billion. There is now a need for a bet on the height of this in the years to come. By 2050, there will be twice as many people over 67 years of age as we have today. Finally, I will refer to the setting and take up the proposals of the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-14.ana.ud396e536	The representative, Bjørg Tørresdal, has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-14.ana.ud396e541	The center party is happy to record the new line from the Christian People's Party that is now being expressed in today's setting. The Christian People's Party is flagging scepticism for the VAT compensation scheme and is no longer right in the principle that the money should follow the user. While the Christian People's Party has defended Erna Solberg's starvation of the municipalities for the last four years in this debate, they now demand remediation. They want older people, more health professionals, young people with disabilities out of hospitals, yes, they want even a escalating plan that they could have contributed to over a whole period of time. I'm just going to give Bjørg Tørresdal one chance to say: $3.8 billion more in free income in one year than Bondevik II – well, that was actually a lift.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-14.ana.ud396e550	The Christian People's Party has never concealed that any krone in increased transfers to the municipalities is positive because it provides increased well-being. We have faith that our local politicians are using those transfers in a good way. We're happy about that. We're not so much concerned about not blaming others or giving praise in every direction. We're very concerned that the municipalities are getting better. The escalation started in the previous period. It continues now, and it's the Christian People's Party very busy. At the same time, we are concerned that we do not create too high expectations, so that the municipalities again have a problem in complying. We have a responsibility that there is consistency between the transfers and the tasks the municipalities have to solve.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-14.ana.ud396e559	I agree with what was suggested by the previous replicator, that the Christian People's Party seems in several ways to have good prognosis in the direction of a better welfare policy, and that is what we find seaworthy. When we proposed NOK 5.7 billion more to the local government sector, the Christian People's Party went against it. Does the representative Tørresdal agree that there was a serious mistake, when one sees the need for money in the municipal sector, and when one sees the line that the Christian People's Party has now taken?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-14.ana.ud396e566	I just repeat that the Christian People's Party in the position being debated today supports the Government's proposal for a stepping up and suggests that we can also imagine going further in terms of the free resources at the harvest budgetary procedure. We want to open this up because there are so many unsolved tasks, many new tasks that you will be able to afford, among other things. the costs of population development and the NAV reform. The Christian People's Party supports a stepping up of the municipal economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-14.ana.ud396e573	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-14.ana.ud396e577	The local economy is on the right track. Growth in both 2004, 2005 and 2006 was record high. Important steps have been taken to cover the gap between tasks and revenues, which is a consequence of many years of policy, not least the structure of the Workers' Party from the 1990s, when earmarked schemes and reforms were underfunded and not priced. It is therefore very gratifying to record the political developments that have taken place in the Workers' Party, which are now involved in both words and actions to give municipalities greater freedom to take responsibility for the well-being of the public financed and to minimise the earmarking of funds. But claiming that there is a welfare policy reversal that is now taking place, as the government parties do in their remark, is an eloquent assertion. The working party, and indeed the Center Party, has received good help from the previous government in bringing back the gap between good will and lack of money. The central government, with local government ministers from the Central Party, and the Stoltenberg I government managed to obtain little funding in the municipal sector from the 1990s. Net operating surplus in the municipal sector was at its lowest in 2001 and 2002. At such a time, it is timely to recall that there was also an uprising of the rapporteur in 2001, not just in 2005. Left supports the government parties in the view that a long-term escalation plan is needed for the local economy. But we miss the plan. We also lack measures to improve efficiency and modernise, not least in the use of new technologies. Cooperation with KS if this is good, but at the same time we must be open to interaction with other actors in order to get a desired development. The left is concerned that the Government’s resistance to competition can prevent efficiency and renewal. For us, competition and tenders are not an end in themselves, but an instrument. Process and participation are therefore very important when using such an instrument. The left is excited about the instruments that the Government will use to achieve similar gains in the public sector. Otherwise, it's probably right to say that municipalities get most of the attention in this debate. In the left, we are concerned that county councils should also receive development opportunities and attention. There is a large increase in the number of high school students, while the number of yearly jobs is falling. The government parties themselves say in the Soria Moria statement that the teacher's density is rising, which requires that the number of years' work is increasing more strongly than the student's growth. For upper secondary schools, this will mean an increase of about 2000 annual works. With the 2007 proposal for a local economy, we do not see how county municipalities will be able to achieve such an increase and will therefore express concern about the future quality of high school. In the left we are also afraid of the transformation and development of the county municipalities when they are put on grass as a level of government. What incentives do they have to develop when they are about to be phased out? We fear that the administrative reform will be a maintenance reform for high school and county councils pending both money and political governance signals. This is a management challenge that the Government must now take seriously. The only development-oriented proposal we can see is a small pot of money for the development of digital learning materials in high school. But there is really a need for more teachers and more places in the professional direction. This is more evidence of symbol politics and a cheap investment to get rid of an expensive election campaign about free learning material. Speaking of the announced administrative reform – it may not only be the county municipalities that are a little lost and pending: it is interesting to follow the internal draw between the government parties and actually the draw between representatives of individual government parties. Former central party leader Anne Enger Lahnstein is concerned that we can move towards a federal state by introducing large regions. The member of the Committee from the Central Party, Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum, said in the evening post yesterday that he feels like a rotted heathmark and wants to remain so. It may be the identity of the representative of the Battle Force Vedum. If a big representative is concerned about an identity crisis with a large region, is there no reason to be concerned about democracy? Is not closeness, belonging and knowledge of the local importance for political commitment and for political legitimacy? It shall be interesting to follow further the Centre Party’s new reality series, ‘The Hunt for Identity’, in order not to forget the chapter on hospitals, the ‘Acute’ among government parties. The left has not yet taken a position on any regional reform, but believes that such a reform would have little meaning if the hospitals did not become part of it. We record that internal hearings in the Center Party and SV support our view. Otherwise, the Left has noticed that the Government announces an odelsting proposal with proposals for new rules for inter-municipal cooperation. It's positive. We regret, however, that legislative proposals relating to the so-called co-municipal model will not be promoted in the announced proposal. The municipal sector needs more regulated forms of inter-municipal cooperation than the current law on inter-municipal cooperation, IKS, and limited liability companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-14.ana.ud396e596	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-14.ana.ud396e599	The left is of the opinion that SEK 1.3 billion of the growth in free income next year will come in the form of increased corporate tax. This will lead to a distribution between municipalities that we believe would be disproportionate, as the growth in free incomes suggested here in the proposition will go towards strengthening the well-being offer across the country. Isn't the Left concerned about the disk distribution that this represents? Is the Left also concerned about the disruptive effect that so much emphasis on corporate tax could have on the inter-municipal development work?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-14.ana.ud396e604	First, I want to say that if we're going to have some incentives for industrial development work out in the municipalities, I think it's important to keep the pressure on it. Then I don't think it's the right model that this government is now adding up to to get a further development of business, by lowering the incentives.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-14.ana.ud396e609	It was a pleasant comment to make that I am proud to be pagan. I'm proud to be heathmarking, I can still say that. But why do we want administrative reform? Well, because we want to red tape and repoliticise the intermediate level, that there are politicians who need to make political decisions, while there are bureaucrats who need to deal more with it with legal certainty and pure bureaucratic regulations. In the tradition of the Left, I have then believed that there has been criticism of the official state, that there has been belief in local and regional elected representatives, and that the knowledge is best local. That is why I expect – and I think that also when I read the vote – that the Left wants to support a clean-up and democratisation reform like the one we want to implement, that they want to support it also in order to maintain a differentiated and fine-skinned municipal structure throughout Norway. Am I mistaken when I believe that the Left is on hand when we are going to implement a democracy reform that ensures a fine-tuned municipal structure and ensures that politicians make regional policy decisions, while we are minimizing the regional state?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-14.ana.ud396e618	I very much agree with the representative Vedum on this. But I'm recording as a North Rhine-Westphalian that the Central Party is probably not entirely in line with itself at all times in relation to whether they want that regionalisation reform. But the left has also said that we see it inappropriate if the hospitals do not get into this. It doesn't leave the Vedum of the Center Party here to say anything about. There was also some of the assumption of the Center Party, I thought earlier.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-14.ana.ud396e623	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-14.ana.ud396e626	I am pleased that a broad majority of the committee expresses confidence in a living local government. Strengthening local well-being and achieving equivalent services across the country requires a strong public sector based on Community solutions. Municipalities are the main provider of basic welfare services to the inhabitants. Therefore, a rise in municipal income is absolutely necessary. This promise is on the agenda for the Government. With the municipality's plans for 2006 and 2007, the Norwegian municipalities will have increased their free revenues by between 7 and 8 billion kroner, a little depending on how you calculate – but at least I don't take too hard in – and have a total income growth of the two years in a place between 11 and 12 billion kroner. No matter how you turn it around and turn it around, it's a big bet. Despite this, I am the first to recognise that there will be unresolved tasks in the municipal sector after 2007. That is why it is necessary to have an escalation plan, which will not only have to go over two years, but will have to go over four years – just as we have said and written in the Soria Moria Declaration. The government's 2007 income framework proposal takes into account 2000 more annual work in the care of the elderly, child care, psychiatry and school. In addition, we assume that municipalities should have covered the additional expenditure related to demographic development, which amounts to approximately NOK 1.4 billion. The most important fundamental distinction in this room is between the parties who want to live democracy and freedom of action for the municipalities through free income, and the party who wants ear-marking and price-financing – in other words, between the Progress Party and the others. The Progress Party believes that increased free revenues do not strengthen basic municipal services but that the funds go to more administrative and non-statutory tasks. Well, we have just received quarterly statistics from the Statistical Central Bureau comparing the figures for the first quarter of 2006 with those for the first quarter of 2005. That's interesting reading. The statistics show, as the rapporteur has already pointed out, that in the first quarter of 2006, municipalities use 7.9 pst compared to the first quarter of 2005. more in kindergartens, schools, health and care. Much of the strong growth is attributed to the kindergarten sector. But despite that, the cost of primary school has increased by 6.5 pst. and in the care sector by 6.3 pst. In the case of kindergartens, the growth is 17.3 pst. We don't know for sure if there's a growth that will last the whole year, but it shows what heavy municipalities are doing to achieve the goal of full child care coverage. These are very encouraging figures, and it shows that free resources produce results in terms of increased service provision on the key welfare tasks. I have to allow myself to say that I believe that the figures should be a reason for the Advancement Party, but also for all those who have thought that the money will go into an indefinable drain. If we correct these numbers for the price growth in the municipal sector, we have a real growth of 4.75 pst. on the overall key welfare tasks. This is very good, taking into account that the average growth of activity in the municipal sector for the period 2001–2005 was 1.35 pst. So this isn't cooked together on my desk. These are numbers that SSB has given us. In the end, for the time being is fast here: I record that some people express concern that the Government is not sufficiently concerned about the renewal and efficiency work. I can just make sure that we're going to have full pressure on it. Conversion work shall be carried out continuously, not in skipper roofs. We are developing a platform for wise and long-term conversion work in cooperation between the elected representatives, the employees and the administration of the municipalities. This platform will be presented in a short time. Then it is of course important to add, in relation to conversion work, that it is the municipalities that are responsible for it. But we're taking action to facilitate a better process of renewal and efficiency.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-14.ana.ud396e647	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-14.ana.ud396e650	The centre party and the government are busy with the bureaucracy. I have a question that goes on the VAT compensation scheme, which was supposed to give the private and municipal service providers equal terms. Has the Council received a signal that there is an additional bureaucracy when the municipalities have to operate with calculation and applications in connection with this scheme, which makes this extra bureaucratic? Has the State Council received the same signals, and what will the State Council do with the VAT compensation scheme?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-14.ana.ud396e655	The answer to the question is yes. We get a lot of requests about how demanding it is to administer the VAT compensation system. That's one of the starting points for us to have a full review of that system. Work is being carried out on a high-pressure basis in cooperation mainly between the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs. We propose that we be able to get back to that matter in the 2007 budget, because there are major counter-arguments related to the degree of bureaucracy.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-14.ana.ud396e661	When the Borge Committee had finished its professional work, it was relatively quickly quite clear that there was no political support, neither in the government that was then sitting in the new government, nor in the opposition and position in the Storting, for the scheme proposed by the Borge Committee. We are therefore a little surprised that the government did not immediately take the initiative to possibly start a political work with a background in the sample's professional work. It's been a long time, and that means we can't get a new income system in place until 2009. Several reacted quite strongly when one so that the government has actually intended to set down a political sample consisting only of the government parties, to work on this. This has led to KS being excluded from this sample, for KS cannot be included in a sample consisting only of the government parties. I want to ask the Council of State: is it such that one has concluded in this area, or is one still open to invite with both the KS and the opposition in this important work, so that we can get a predictable and stable system?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-14.ana.ud396e670	Compared to the first part of the question, why we did not leave the Borge Committee report in the drawer earlier, is the reason why the report had already been sent to the hearing, and there was a deadline of 1 February. We wanted to listen to the municipalities, and that's why we handled it that way. There is no doubt that there is a need for a review of the income system. Follow-up shall be carried out on the setting up of the Committee and on the basis of the underlying material. The government's internal work on this, I'm going to come back and inform you if you want. But no matter how the Government organizes that work, I am concerned that we should have a good dialogue with KS and also with the opposition in Stortinget. So let there be no doubt that we will facilitate a very good dialogue related to the follow-up to the Borge Committee. The income system for municipalities is important to all of us.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-14.ana.ud396e677	The Christian People's Party is concerned that there should be consistency between the tasks it imposes on the municipalities and the transfers and revenues they have to carry out these tasks. We're also concerned that there should be a growth in the free income, and that you don't get too ambitious in relation to how far that money is going to go. We see from the signals now coming from next year's government budget that there are high expectations of growth of NOK 2–2.5 billion in increased transfers of free funds to municipalities. One says, among other things: there is room for 2000 new posts in the health and care sector in addition to the other expenditure to be covered by it. Is this not ambitious, and will it not be difficult for the municipalities both to fulfill the promises of new jobs and to do something about the maintenance allowance that is there?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-14.ana.ud396e682	I am pleased that I can fully agree with the representative Tørresdal that our goal is to find the fine balance point, where there is consistency between the tasks that the municipalities have, and the money that they have at their disposal. That's the target. That's the long-term goal of this government. But we recognize that we do not reach it without a stepping-up plan that has to go over four years. In relation to the ambitions, there were some errors in the calculations that the representative Tørersdal had in his post, linked to, among other things. the cost of 2000 more hands in care. It has been taken into account that we will have 2,000 more annual work in the care of the elderly during 2007. Growth has also been taken into account in relation to both psychiatry, school and NAV reform. The demand for maintenance is a challenge, and I can only acknowledge that in that field we need to take more time. [[President clubs]] It's a huge aftermath, to which many governments have contributed for a long time.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-14.ana.ud396e689	There are grounds for recalling that the cord shift has a time limit of 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-14.ana.ud396e692	The left notes that the Government in the proposition announces an odelstningsproposition with proposals for new rules for inter-municipal cooperation. It's positive. At the same time, the government warns that a legislative proposal relating to the so-called co-municipal model will not be promoted in the announced odelstningsproposition. The municipal sector needs more regulated forms of inter-municipal cooperation than the current law on inter-municipal cooperation, IKS, and limited liability companies, AS. Not least, cooperation models that represent a popular representation when transferring decision-making powers to cooperative bodies other than the local government. When does the Council of State see that the legislative regulation of the joint municipal model will come?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-14.ana.ud396e697	It is quite right, as the representative says, that there will be a very rapid proposal on inter-municipal cooperation and how we will better organise ourselves in that field. We have discussed whether there should also be legislative regulations, new ones, linked to the joint municipal model. I can be honest about it: we've been a little bit in doubt about whether we should go into it now, or whether we should wait for more trials. We've gotten to the point that we want to wait for the trial that's going on, because it's just one per. today. So we await further evaluations of it before we possibly go to the step of promoting legislative proposals. At the same time, we are clear that we will be open to new experiments in this area, and in that sense we will not put a stop to further work related to the joint municipal model.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-14.ana.ud396e702	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-14.ana.ud396e705	There are many local politicians in this country who have sometimes felt that they have spoken for deaf ears, that some central politicians and parties attach little trust to their reality description of the local economy. It is therefore gratifying, yes really quite uneasy, to record the temperature change that has now occurred. Local politicians no longer face a cold shoulder. It quickly became better times with new government. And the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left are clearly better in opposition than in government – in terms of local economy, well to notice. There is now agreement on the new level of income and a strong commitment to the municipal sector is needed. In addition – and there really is a social democrat with a close past in Kommune-Norway – both current and former government parties are together about the starting point: belief in a living government and sustainable development based on, nothing less than, community solutions. On the other hand, the party of progress is moving far away from the Community solutions, but ‘peeng’ – money is to be said – they have, in their own way, as they continue to use over and over again. Then it is also the case that the municipalities and county councils have actually worked up a significant credit on that edge over many years. When one sees the size of the addition The Progress Party now sketches, in the light of the formidable cuts The Progress Party proposed in the municipal economy from 1999 and in the following years, it will take 20 years for the Progress Party to have a significant reason for good conscience. So it's not just in the case of maintenance, that there's a aftermath. As before, many of the schemes related to the host municipalities, which were established in the context of the HVPU reform, and the top-level funding scheme for users requiring specific resources. The government parties have carefully assessed the return to fully earmarked grants for the 33 municipalities covered by this host municipality scheme, but we have had a continuous focus on what will be the best of these municipalities. The estimates of the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs show that this partial inclusion in the income system is now paying off for almost all of these municipalities – this because of the general increase in the free income that gives a noticeably higher counting for the mentally impaired. We have therefore not proposed changes, but are concerned with good dialogue with these municipalities in the future. These municipalities have undertaken to give the people involved, from different parts of the country, the best possible quality of life and a good and safe offer throughout their lives. Therefore, these municipalities must be followed up extra from our side. Nor should we ever forget that these municipalities took on this task, which they have always done in a good way, under given conditions. With regard to the State Top Funding Scheme relating to particularly resource-intensive users, we have clear ambitions to improve it over the four-year period. I underline that. But the Bondevik government gave us an extra challenge in achieving the goal of weakening the system just before we came into government. And to say it just like that: it's expensive. It takes hundreds of millions to get this in place as we want. However, changes are under assessment and will be presented by the Government in the context of the 2007 government budget. Here's one of the things. focus on establishing a system that works as fairly as possible between municipalities. Much has improved in the municipalities and municipalities in a short time, but the challenges are still great. Only changes in population composition require considerable resources, affecting the dimensioning of special secondary schools and also care for the elderly. These demographic costs we're talking about here, it has to be obvious that the state is making a comparison. This communicative proposition takes into account more than that. There are hardly any shock waves going through this hall if I finally claim that this is simply a good proposition. The municipalities have now been given the position and priority of Norwegian policies that citizens deserve. All parties are in front of the municipal election nomination. Maybe it's even easier to recruit people for local politics. It's also an important dimension.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-14.ana.ud396e722	It's a pleasure to hear the previous speech. It has great entertainment value. The economy is in focus when we talk about the municipalities. We also have an interesting municipal structure, with 433 municipalities that have different positions and different priorities. Local democracy is about accepting differences. This is where the Progress Party will stand out. We do not accept differences in basic welfare services. Therefore, the Progress Party wants the State to manage the revenues of basic welfare services, so that everyone across the country is given the same services. The Progress Party has noted that the Government has not introduced any new action or measures in relation to the income system, a binding multiannual plan for portability to the municipalities, i.e. predictability, or in relation to the constellation system between the State and the Municipality, as announced in the Soria Moria Declaration. This was probably just a festivities, and it was performed in a rush—valrus. The Progress Party believes that there have been great expectations in the municipalities, which so far have not been met. It was promised a lot – and many warm hands. What I have the impression is that the rapporteurs are the only ones who have had warm hands because of the increase in wages. I would also like to point out that the role of the county council vis-à-vis the municipalities is problematic, particularly in matters of discretion, land and planning. I would like to point out that even unanimous local government decisions have been overruled because case handlers at the county council have made a discretionary assessment. It is a challenge for local democracy when local democracy is cut off by professionals and skilled bureaucrats. The Progress Party wants to reintroduce the real right of self-determination of local politicians. I am very pleased that according to Innst. O. No 54 for 2005–06, on the Law amending the Law on Planning and Building, is a unanimous committee that wants to look at this — and that has actually seen the problem. The Progress Party believes that property taxes and cabin taxes are being distorted. For those who sit with inherited huts, and for widows who have built up single dwellings with their partner, this frame will be distorted. It will affect these groups quite skeptically. It is common people who now get solid bills dumped into their mailbox, and it is clear that the richest are not hit to the same extent. Property tax is an unfortunate double taxation. The Party considers that the county municipality is an unnecessary and costly level of administration. I see that more and more county councils do not have a basis for existence. I am disappointed that the Government wants to create a new level. Now I understand that the government parties have a slightly different view of this. So we're going to hope that we end up on two levels, which I think is the best. The most sensible thing would have been to shut down the county and allocate tasks between the municipality and the state, thus reducing unnecessary bureaucracy and resource use. It would benefit the inhabitants. The representative of the Central Party claimed that at a single price, the Advance Party would increase bureaucracy. It's a struggle and a stab at the opposite of what we want. We want welfare services for everyone and equally across the country, and we want reduced bureaucracy. Several of the speakers before me have spent 40 billion kroner on this maintenance run in the municipal sector. The municipal bank has also documented this and says that there is a maintenance allowance of NOK 50 billion. You say you want to do something about it, but you don't show it by action. The government has major challenges in this regard. I understand that the Council of State wants to get people back to the countryside. I don't think this is a carrot for those who want to move back to the villages, when you come back to a fallen ghost town. So to the funding mechanism for resource-intensive users. The progress party wants the entry point to be 400000 kroner. Here SV claims that they have worked hard and for a long time to get to this scheme, which we have not seen. So we hope that this can be put on the agenda again. This can be the best promise to strengthen the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-14.ana.ud396e741	The economy of municipalities, and thus the ability to provide a good welfare offer, has been under pressure for several years. The government pursues a targeted policy to ensure the development of kindergartens and a good school and prioritisation in 2006 and 2007 of a significant strengthening of the local economy. The government's policy provides municipalities with a foundation for improving school education, employing more teachers and improving kindergarten provision. It is therefore gratifying that the accounts for the first three months of 2006 show that municipalities have used 7.9 pst. more on welfare than in the same period last year. The municipalities use 6.5 pst. more in school and the whole 17.4 pst. more in kindergartens. I am concerned that the municipal sector ensures that the growth of income is used to improve the provision of services to the population. The growth in the free revenues next year will be between 2 billion and 2.5 billion kroner. Due to continued growth in the number of 16- to 18-year-olds, county municipalities will have a slightly stronger relative growth in free income than municipalities. In 2006, the total growth of free revenues is DKK 5.7 billion. At the same time, the allocations to municipalities are significantly strengthened by facilitating growth in the number of kindergartens. The government’s objectives are full child care coverage by the end of 2007 – high quality and low price. The government wants to provide predictable and stable framework conditions for municipalities in order to ensure a high rate of expansion. In the revised national budget, the government is therefore proposing to increase the allocation to the kindergarten sector by a total of 694 million. as a result of the high expansion of kindergartens and to stimulate new development. I now expect all municipalities to have their own plans to achieve the goal of full child care coverage. Final figures per year 15 December 2005 shows that about 231 500 children had their place in kindergarten in 2005. This is an increase of a total of 10,900 children from 2004 and much higher than we originally expected. A high rate of expansion is also expected in 2006 in line with the one we had in 2005. Since 2000, this has been the strongest increase in the number of new children in kindergarten. Overall coverage by the end of 2005 was 76 pst. Corresponding figures in 2004 were 72 pst. The challenge now is to provide childcare facilities to children under the age of three for those who want it – and we are on the right track. The coverage of these children has increased from 48 pst. to 54 pst. According to the Kinderhagen Act, the municipality is obliged to provide a sufficient number of nursery places. The municipalities therefore have a major task both as kindergarten and kindergarten. In October 2006, we will know how many people are on the waiting list after the kindergarten year has started after the summer. This will provide an indication of the need for expansion in 2007. Municipalities are working very actively to establish new kindergartens in 2006. The state financial instruments have led to many new orphanage buildings, including in municipalities that have had low coverage. To a large extent, it is the small municipalities that have managed to achieve full childcare coverage. However, in large municipalities and in urban municipalities there is greater uncertainty about the objective of full child care coverage could be achieved by the deadline. New childcare laws and a new framework plan will be important elements for improving the quality of childcare facilities. The government is working to achieve the goal of full child care coverage by the end of 2007. Measures to achieve this goal will be returned by the Government to the State budget for the next year. The Soria Moria Declaration states that until the objective of full child care coverage is achieved, the earmarked grants to kindergartens will not be included in the framework grant to municipalities. The promise of knowledge that we are about to introduce from the autumn of school aims at the development of basic skills and competences for all students in order to take an active part in the knowledge society. All students will have the same opportunities to develop their skills. The level of knowledge shall contribute to ensuring appropriate training for all students and to increasing the emphasis on learning. The government has given priority to facilitating the provision of good training to municipalities and county councils through a strengthened local economy. Increased growth in free income provides room for increased resource use in the school sector. Expenditure needs vary between municipalities. In some places, there is a need to strengthen care for the elderly, while in others, there is a need for better schools. It is the local elected representatives who know best the needs of their municipality. It is on this basis that reasonable balances can be made. I am very confident that local politicians will be able to meet these difficult priorities. What they have now been given is an economic foundation that is better than in many years. We have given the municipalities solid ground under their feet, after the previous government was a glide scale where you were constantly facing a challenge and cutting. Now we are faced with a situation where municipalities are given the opportunity to strengthen their welfare services. I'm proud of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-14.ana.ud396e770	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-14.ana.ud396e773	I record that State Council Djupedal boasts of the same thing as I record that more from the government parties have boasted of today, namely the commitment to the basic welfare services – in this case the school. But then there is something that is not entirely right. The Committee has been consulted, and we have received a lot of input from stakeholders. Then it's a little interesting to notice that the Education Association, of all people, says that the growth that has taken place in Municipality-Norway has not come to the education sector, i.e. school and secondary education, to the extent that the Government expresses. In fact, the Education Association goes so far as to ask that funds for the school be earmarked. My question to the government council is: does the Education Association fail in this assessment?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-14.ana.ud396e782	The situation will differ from municipality to municipality. Historically, it is that approximately One third of municipal expenditure goes to the education sector, about 30 pst. So it will vary from municipality to municipality how much you actually spend. But what you have to remember is that for many years the municipalities have been facing a situation of constant cuts, constant cuts in the number of teaching years, constant cuts in many different fields. Now we have given the municipalities solid ground under their feet, which means that for the first time in many years the municipalities have the opportunity to look forward. I understand and respect the impatience that is in the teacher's corps after the great cutting they've been subjected to for many years. What we've said to today's teachers in the country's classrooms is that we're betting at school. We're ally with the school. The school has a friend in the government, and we give them increased resources. Last week I visited Lørenskog municipality, where Fjellhamar school – the country’s largest kindergarten – is located. There the rapporteur could inform me that they are now employing 14 new teachers in school. Since they have had to cut down on the number of teaching years for many years, they now have the opportunity to hire teachers. Only at Fjellhamar school means four new years of teaching. This is the situation of municipalities now facing: looking forward and not down, as they did under the previous government.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-14.ana.ud396e793	State Council Djupedal continues the rhetoric of the campaign and draws up some examples. The Council of State should now deal with the documents sent by the Government to the Stortinget, among others. the report of the Technical Calculation Committee for the Municipal Sector, for which the Government of the Proposition has agreed to the justifications. It tells a completely different story, namely that the number of teacher’s years of work has increased as students progressed in the municipal sector in recent years. The calculation for which the Council of State Djupedal has to answer is that the Government of the Proposition writes that the increase of DKK 2–2.5 billion that they have proposed in free resources will be used to finance the NAV reform, 2000 new annual works in the care and care sector and partial maintenance work in the municipal sector. Then I'd like to ask the State Council for the calculation: how much is left to raise the quality and content of the school and increase the teacher's density, as this government has promised?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-14.ana.ud396e802	As I was very careful to underline, this will be the subject of local priority. In some municipalities it would be right to strengthen the health sector; in other municipalities it would be right to strengthen the school and in some municipalities the kindergartens. The figures are available today. COSTRA figures show a significant increase in welfare production in Norway, and much of this goes to kindergarten and school. Of course, this is also due to other factors, such as: that we have our own grants for kindergartens, which make them particularly high in the statistics of the year. I trust that the local elected representatives will be able to cope with this difficult balance. We have given them the opportunity to give positive and not negative priority – not what to cut down on, but what to bet on. So it will always be that there are more wishes than there are money for, and I think that the representative Höie is well acquainted with. But one of the many examples we see is that you actually have an increase in the number of teacher's years. But this will again be up to the municipality. In addition, we strengthen the quality of school through a significant effort at continuing education. Three hundred and seventy-five million. kr is spent this year on continuing training, in addition to that done by the municipality itself. This means that the schools are now well prepared — by more competence for teachers — so that the Knowledge promise will be a promise of knowledge for all students in the school for the autumn.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-14.ana.ud396e815	It is announced in the municipal bill that there is room to increase the number of posts in the health and care sector by 2 000. A further escalation is also reported in the health and care sector. The Council of State has also said that in school there should be an increase in teacher density. But things are related. Should one have the opportunity to do this, one not only needs the money, one also needs the persons – and one needs qualified persons. Then there is a challenge in ensuring that there are enough trained both health workers and teachers in school. My question is: Will the Council of State ensure that both the public institutions — the higher education institutions and universities — and the private staff who train nurses and teachers will receive increased appropriations under the escalation plan, in line with the plans available for the municipal sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-14.ana.ud396e824	I believe the representative has respect for the fact that what comes into the budget for the autumn will be included in the budget for the autumn. It is clear that we are committed to strengthening the quality and educational capacity of higher education. In the public higher education system, one faced significant cuts under the previous government. A total of 4,000 places of study were removed. We have not been able to cover this, but we have been able to cover 500 new places of study within teacher and pre-school education in our first budget, last autumn. This has led to a significant increase in the admission of teachers and pre-school teachers, who, of course, will again be the hands of the school and kindergarten sectors once they have completed their education. The representative points to a major challenge, namely that we should train more people. We're going to have more hands, we're going to have more quality in care for the elderly, health care, kindergarten, school and other important welfare tasks. The government is focusing on this. That means that we will also come back to Stortinget with these questions on an appropriate occasion.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-14.ana.ud396e833	The problem with the Council’s answer to my previous question — and with this government’s rhetoric in general — is that in some areas they have made very concrete numerical promises on behalf of the municipalities. In other areas, such as: education, they reply that this will be up to the individual municipality. This means that when the Government is challenged in areas for which the municipalities are responsible, they refer to the increases in the free income of the municipalities, while in other areas they have promised the money in concrete terms in the form of numerical promises in the election campaign. My question to the Council of State this time is related to the private kindergartens. State Council Kristin Halvorsen has promised that she will resign as State Council in 2007 if this government has not achieved full child care coverage. One of the most effective ways of achieving full child-care coverage quickly, by the Government, will be more equal treatment of public and private kindergartens. This has been proposed by the opposition in this proposition, but one has not received the government batches. Will the Council of State consider such a measure to ensure that he continues to be a party leader in the government after 2007?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-14.ana.ud396e840	I record that all the proposals that have been promoted in the past and that the previous government has opposed are now being promoted by the opposition – one later on as if this were something that has always been meant to be. Equal treatment for private and public kindergartens is part of the long-term plan for the development of kindergartens in Norway. It's not yet realized, but this is something that we're of course also aware of. Let me also say that the private build more kindergartens now than the public. As far as I remember on the move, there were 10,900 new children last year who got their seats in kindergarten, and 76 pst. So of the expansion, 3 500 new kindergartens, it was private. This means that the financing of the private kindergartens is also good, and the private fortunately sees themselves well served in the construction of kindergartens. It's a very important part of the big expansion we're now facing. On the part of the Government, we have very good contact with the private developers. They are given equal treatment, in the sense that part of the aid schemes is equal to the public sector and to the private sector, when, therefore, public or private are the growers of the nursery. This is one of many questions that we will continually come back to. Fortunately, kindergartens are often debated in Stortinget, and this will also be part of the future debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-14.ana.ud396e853	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-14.ana.ud396e856	There is no doubt that the municipal proposition is a very versatile document. We all know that it is of very crucial importance to all municipalities around the country and forms a kind of bottom plank in the opportunities for good welfare production in District Norway. But it is also the case this time that the capital and cities of Norway will benefit from the municipal proposition, and that is very, very happy. On Friday, the Regional and Regional Communication will come, and there will be great expectations for the Capital Communication coming to the autumn. With this and in the Soria Moria Declaration, the government shows that ‘city and land, hand in hand’ is not only an old slogan, but also action in practice in modern times. Oslo is a population and economic centre of gravity for Norway. Oslo's development can be a driving force and an engine for the whole country. It is in the interests of the entire country that the capital becomes an attractive city and region. The Capital Communication coming to the autumn will be a contribution from the Government to recognising the role of Oslo in terms of competitiveness, diversity and value creation. Again, it is also imperative to see that Oslo has special major urban phenomena that challenge us as the country's responsible elected representatives. Unfortunately, drugs, crime, homelessness and poverty are just some of the very demanding and new challenges and challenges we face in our city today. In parallel with this Communication, the Government has announced an action plan on the inclusion of the growing population with a minority background in Oslo and other cities in Norway, and an action plan to combat poverty. There are also action plans that will particularly affect cities in Norway. Although the level of income is high in this city, there is a paradox that differences are increasing and life expectancy is increasing among the population. Although the city provides good quality of life and cultural services, public poverty is greater than ever. The number of homeless persons is increasing. We know that there is a need for a new mapping. There are many families with children who are struggling with poverty and who are in great need of housing support. We know that the need to increase the bout rate for poor children's families is increasing. The need for more rapid processing of applications for housing aid is also increasing. We know that prostitution and crime are real in the city. We have children who grow up in Oslo, who do not know Norwegian at school and who have parents who are illiterate. All of this has particular relevance to cities, and there is a need for a massive lifting in order not to make bad worse. It will require an effort from the state, but it must be done in cooperation with the municipalities. We've done it in a successful way before. We helped Oslo the inner east. It is natural that the Groruddalen in Oslo is now on its way and gets its natural and well-deserved place in these messages, and especially in the Capital Message. When I see the ambitions of this government – the Soria Moria declaration and the municipal proposition – I am very optimistic and I believe that it actually benefits. In addition, we know that Oslo has an economic potential that needs to be exploited better. The knowledge economy, with good university and higher education environments, a large share of the country's research resources, advanced technology, a large part of business services, business and a rich cultural life creates strong and good integration. It also provides a larger labour market. If we're able to achieve cooperation between the state and the municipality and follow up the municipal proposition, I think we're going very, very far. I look forward to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-14.ana.ud396e872	It is a good democratic principle that election voters can replace politicians you don't see fit to keep. However, cottage owners do not have the right to vote in local elections in the municipalities where they have cabins. The right says no to the cabin tax, among other things. for that reason. We don't want to expand the geographical area of property taxes. Without the possibility of participation, tenants now have to look at the fact that they are being burdened with increased tax burden, without getting anything back for the increased costs. The property tax is an unsocial tax. Now it also becomes undemocratic. Moreover, it is a double taxation. It did not take long from the announcement of this tax proposal until we registered a joyous outbreak in the newspapers from a large number of rapporteurs from the Workers' Party and SV. In my home country, Telemark, the rapporteurs both in Vinje and in Kragerø quickly welcomed a new cab tax. I don't think they'll be alone. It is likely that several rapporteurs from the government parties will use the opportunity to increase the income of the municipality. Everything now stands in the queue of municipalities – according to today’s Nations. This should not surprise anyone, because nothing is as predictable as the socialist parties' desire for increased taxes and taxes. Unfortunately, the Centre Party is also hanging out. No charge with a Stoltenberg government, said one of Skien's workers party politicians in Varden January 2005. The long campaign had begun. But it's been lifted, both locally and centrally. In my home municipality, the Workers' Party calls an increase in property tax for people's democracy. Centrally, it seems right that the property tax is now being extended to all, including the landlords. When the government now opens up property taxes also on cabins and other leisure properties, there is reason to fear that this is only a first step in the wrong direction, because today we can read that the Workers' Party is fully developing a further increase in property taxes. The policy of the co-operation administration led to growth, optimism and good times. But there will still be unmet needs in the municipalities. That is why, in the Right, we believe that the local community sector still needs to have better framework conditions and more space for action. In parallel, there must be a reduction of laws and regulations and a simplification, coordination and reduction of the reporting and supervision requirements of the State. This is the only way to stimulate innovation and conversion. For the right, change will is a honorary word. We want to change to keep going. We will take care of the best, as well as in relation to the municipal sector. During the previous ageing period, the municipal sector underwent significant changes. The challenges were met with instruments such as change in organisation, stronger user focus, more targeted service quality work, more use of competition and greater emphasis on measurement at all levels. The fact that municipalities are at very different levels of development is not to be overlooked. There are considerable differences in the progress of each municipality. And it should be a major challenge in the future to reduce the large differences between municipalities. In other words, the modernisation work must continue. The research project ‘Effectiveness and efficiency development in the municipality’ will be a useful tool, and together with the Progress Party, the Right now promotes a proposal asking the Government to explain both the conclusion and progress of the project and to present a case on monitoring the effectiveness and efficiency development of the municipal sector. The government's lack of willingness to convert and improve efficiency is striking in my eyes. Through the Soria Moria Declaration, the Government has stopped many of the positive processes undertaken by the Cooperation Government, and it is very unfortunate that in a number of areas, government parties have major concerns about the overall outsourcing of competition, and that user participation and free choice are clearly deprived areas. All of this has been replaced by the indefinable concept of ‘milding municipalities’. – A little obligating, and what is the motivation? Both the Workers' Party and SV – and now the Centre Party – warn against a two-part society, but the policy of the Government adds to it. When the objective is to reduce the public supply of private operators and free user choice, the welfare community is divided. Those who can afford to pay for services make use of the possibility. This goes beyond the users of public services. Many positive gains will have to be ignored by municipalities when government parties now say no to factors such as the outsourcing of public markets. And now I see that the time is up, so I thank you for me!
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-14.ana.ud396e898	In St. prp. No 61 for 2005-2006, among others. that the Government wants to strengthen local welfare by increasing efforts for health, care, schools, kindergartens and culture. This was also what the government party said before the 2005 elections. This repeated and repeated the government party throughout the election campaign. It was made clear that people would immediately notice major changes in these sectors, if only the voters were seven to give the country a new government. But there is little evidence to suggest that the local politicians from the government party have fulfilled these election promises, at least according to the feedback we receive from many around the country. The truth is that it is the Progress Party's local politicians who, in their 2006 budget proposals, went in to benefit from the funds for health, care, schools and kindergartens. Unfortunately, many of the Progress Party's local proposals were voted down. Now, as in 2005, when the Progress Party proposes to earmark a lot of funds, it's not because we don't trust our local politicians, no, it's to force other representatives to use the funds for what their respective party on the Stortinget promises to use the funds. This problem had not existed in a single-cost financing system. Therefore, we ask the Government to wind up today's framework funding system and replace it with a new system of direct state-subsidising of basic welfare services such as health, care, primary and secondary education and social services. The Progress Party is also disappointed by the Government’s actions — or, as it is more right to say, the lack of action — for improving efficiency and modernising the municipal sector. In this context, we will refer to the project «Effectiveness and efficiency development in the municipal sector». The project was started in the autumn of 2003 and will end in 2006. Interim reports have published analyses indicating that there are significant differences in efficiency between municipalities, both for the collection of municipal services, for the basic school and for the care and care sectors separately. A typical result seems to be that the most effective municipalities are two to three times as effective as the least effective. The progress batch will point to an efficiency improvement of 1 pst. in the municipal sector, around NOK 2.4 billion will be released, such as: could be used to provide better services to the inhabitants and to the large wave of older people, which is coming with full strength in a short time. There is a need for twice as many hours of work in the municipal care services in 2060 as in 2000. After the Progress Party's vision, it's completely incomprehensible that the Government is working at the same time to introduce the 6-hour day. So a little bit about the VAT compensation scheme. This scheme was intended to provide a level playing field for private and municipal service providers and to make it easier for municipalities to set up their own service areas. The party of progress will point out that the system as it is today is both animal and resource-requiring. Many municipalities have to add one or more people who are working exclusively on maximising their income from the VAT compensation scheme. In view of the progress of the party, there is nothing to prevent the introduction of the same VAT code for municipalities as for private industry. Finally, the Progress Party wants to strengthen the municipalities' economy, and we believe that the Government's offer of an increase of between NOK 4 and 5 billion for 2007 is too weak. The progress party wants to add about $1 billion more to the municipalities in 2007 than the government adds. We do this because we want to reduce the gap between funding and tasks and, in addition, to heighten demographic changes in the population. We will also show that the Municipality's Central Association has documented a maintenance run of approx. $40 billion for the municipal sector, and we encourage municipalities to use some of the increase in the free resources for maintenance. In contrast, one may find that upgrading costs are just as necessary due to a lack of maintenance for many years. The Progress Party wants to increase the rights of local authorities in order to solve the problems in the short term, while at the same time wanting to implement reforms that will reduce the need for ever-right taxes and charges.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-14.ana.ud396e920	We hear in the debate today that the specter that Right, with Jan Tore Sanner at the head, started yesterday, is being passed through the rhetoric against the so-called cab tax. That is why I asked for the floor. I can't see that with the government's proposal or what we are dealing with today, you bring in some cab tax. Where in every day did you get this? What we are saying, on the other hand, is that it is Kommune-Norge himself who will be allowed to determine where the shoe prints in this case as well, when we now remove a completely obvious unfair arrangement that has in many places led to the regulation making that, for example. small apartments in central districts are subject to property taxes, while expensive houses and cabins outside an artificial boundary are excluded and thus tax-free. This injustice is clearing it up. But no one from the government parties has proposed from this pulpit or the documents a compulsory property tax on cabins, as you can get the impression from the opposition parties. I also have to say that this criticism, especially from the Right, is in a funny and gruesome light, if you take with you the debate of the last few years on these issues. I've brought you Innst. S. No 232 for 2003-2004 on the tax notification, St. meld. No 29 for 2003–04, which was treated a few years ago here in Stortinget. I thought I would quote quite briefly. Firstly, the then Minister of Finance Per-Kristian Foss writes in the notification in point 12.4.4 on municipal property tax as follows: ‘The Ministry agrees with the Property Tax Committee and the Skauge Committee that the demarcation of the Property Tax Act is weakly justified. The delimitation of property taxes should not initially be based on a discretionary location criterion, as the current legislation partially states.’ Further: ‘The discretionary delimitation of properties within a ‘clearly defined area entirely or partly developed in urban areas’ and properties defined as ‘works and uses’ makes it difficult for many municipalities to practice property tax legislation.’ That's one thing. That's the government's proposal. But what's even more interesting is to read what the committee's members from just the right party think about this matter in the committee. There Jan Tore Sanner, Svein Flätten, Heidi Larsen and Torbjørn Hansen – together with the Christian People's Party and Left – wrote the following on this same theme: ‘These members also support the Government’s intention to assess the removal of the current delimitation of property taxes to urban areas and to works and uses, as today’s discretionary demarcation makes the legislation difficult to apply to many municipalities and many demarcation cases are brought before the courts.’ The representative of Holmberg says that there is now full joy among the rapporteurs from the Workers' Party in many places in this country. It's not just those who cheer. Truers cheered together with several representatives from the Right as late as 2003 and 2004 for the very same theme. Then I have to say that this criticism is in a somewhat glaring light. I fully accept that people are against property taxes. In many ways, the Progress Party has a more consistent and real view of that particular issue. But I'm pretty sure there are shared opinions internally in many parties and in many municipalities whether this is smart to introduce or not. For my part, I have to say that I am not sure if I am going to recommend reintroducing this into the municipality of Drammen. You had it in the past, it works well without today. But I don't want to force my fellow elected members in other municipalities to choose any other way if you think it's smart. In order to have such an freedom of choice, one must respectfully notify also a fair system for the types of property covered by the scheme. That's what we're cleaning up today. Therefore, those who today rise to the great heights, and who did so yesterday, and criticise an extension of such a one-off tax base, should instead argue that the municipalities should not at all be allowed to impose any form of property tax. It would have given a more clear political picture. But no such proposal exists. At the same time, when we take into account that central right-wing people, as late as in 2003–2004, recommended doing what we are just doing, the criticism becomes a bit of a funny exercise. I'm sure people in many places accept a local property tax. In many municipalities in Norway, there will be smart approaches that can be taken to improve the level of service provision. But it has to be seen to be fair. Now we're going to clean that up. There are many examples that this does not work as it should today. I am sure there will be many political blows about this in many municipalities in 2007, at the next municipal elections, yes in many elections in the future. But it must be amazing that we can have those debates locally, in the municipalities, but within a fair regulatory framework where people with relatively good advice can also contribute. And I have to say that my sympathy lies with ordinary people in the municipalities, not with people who have expensive, difficult cabins, and who obviously could also have helped to contribute in many municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-14.ana.ud396e953	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-14.ana.ud396e956	The attitude from the municipal committee to the municipal proposition is interesting reading. Because we're going to find two different descriptions of reality. As far as I can see, only one of them can be right. The majority refers to low income growth and low net operating surplus in municipalities in 2002 and 2003. The opposition believes that the policy of the Bondevik II government led to growth and optimism. We who stayed out in Municipality-Norway at that time know a slightly different reality. However, revenue and net operating revenues rose in 2004 and 2005, but much of the growth had to be used to correct financial imbalances. In addition, there are two ways of improving net operating performance — through increased revenues, yes, but also by cutting service output and reducing service quality. That was to a large extent the last thing that happened. With a new majority, this situation has turned upside down. Neither can the opposition get away from it. Even after three weeks, the new majority was able to present a 2006 budget with more money to municipalities, the fulfilment of important child care commitments and the increased response to poverty, to mention something. The municipalities were the more solar winners of the budget, with NOK 5.7 billion more than the previous government added. When the capital press, after the first 100 days of the government, wrote that the red-green parties had made good progress in fulfilling the most important promises of the election campaign, it was in stark contrast to the opposition's use of words about chaos and lifting. The extras from the red-green went to care for the elderly, school, kindergarten and child protection. Only in my home country, Buskerud, there was a total of over 192 million. kr more to the local government than the Bondevik II government proposed. My home municipality, Drammen, got about. Thirty-five million. kr more. This made it possible to strengthen care for the elderly with 33 new annual works only in 2006. Hold the elevators. The municipalities are getting a new boost up to next year, on top of the 2006 promise. The Buskerud municipalities can expect a new 129 million. kr in free income. The drama gets about 20 of these. In addition, earmarked funds are going to have the same size, so the number can be doubled. I have noticed that the opposition believes this is not enough. In particular, the Advance Party is on the front – NOK 1 billion more. Am I wrong if I suspect that it would come no matter what the Government had proposed? It's strange that the Progress Party, given the opposition's current concern for the municipalities, through three budgetary settlements in the last period, failed to perform more than what they actually did at the time. Policy is, of course, the most well-known topic of implementation, at least if you are concerned with the results and not with the contradictions. So the sitting majority continues to fulfill the promises.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-14.ana.ud396e969	The representative, Mikalsen, is talking about the honesty of the Right Party. The same candidacy could benefit the representative, Ms Mikalsen, in her own statement. It was important that the lot Right requested an investigation and an assessment of the ownership basis, but the same assessment was rejected. Had we at that time known that it was SV who was to take the finance minister's chair, it would have been put in a macular machine and not just in a drawer. What I was going to talk about was corporate tax. Municipalities currently have a limited opportunity to benefit from job opportunities and new businesses for their own municipality. This incentive actually wants the government to cut on. It was once so, in 1999, that the Workers' Party was given a majority in the case of a full governmentisation of corporation tax. Then it was clearly seen across the country that municipalities chose to slow down their efforts just to get jobs and rather to focus on other things that did not help to facilitate future well-being. Now that you're saying you're going to look at it in the income system, I think it's just the first step for once again to state the small part of the local corporation tax. In fact, it is very important for municipalities to see that the funds they use today could get a return in the future. Finally, let me address a matter that has a great effect, especially along the coast. We have 18 statesmen who have different degrees of zeal after reviewing locally made decisions, especially in terms of planning and area issues. We see the statesmen operating very differently from the over-testing of local democracy, especially in the case of the beach zone. Yes, I fully agree that there should be a difference between how the ban on coastal zone construction is practised in the interior of Oslofjord, on the south coast, on the west and in northern Norway, but it must be up to the individual local politicians. I do not find one good argument as to why local policy representatives should be set aside for discretion by an official. You can have a multidisciplinary, cross-political involvement in a city board or local government that wants to preserve the municipality's area for the benefit of its citizens, but the county office says no.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-14.ana.ud396e980	The municipalities are closest to the population and therefore have the best chance of providing the citizens with the services they require. Therefore, municipalities must have the freedom and the economy to carry out the tasks assigned to them and to provide the necessary welfare services. That is why care for the elderly, school, kindergarten, culture, etc. is governed and dimensioned by those who know best the local conditions, i.e. the municipalities themselves. This is where the policy of the Progress Party is indifferent to reality. What would that be like if, for example, The care of the elderly should be state-owned and controlled from somewhere far away from the user? What bureaucracy would this entail, and how would the results be? That's what this is about. Similarly, unit price financing is not appropriate in a country with as large geographical differences as in Norway. Many factors make our country very different in terms of costs per person. the population. I have seen that some newspapers have priced the costs per person. pupils' places in each municipality, and gave an impression of a much better student offer in district municipalities with scattered settlements compared to small geographical areas with large population. It's not that simple. Large distances involve long transport or several cross-border schools in each municipality, or a combination of both. This, of course, costs a lot more per year. students than if people lived tighter and could use the same school. This is not about low efficiency, but about geographical conditions. There is only one example of how wrong it is to make such comparisons, and how bad a unit-price financing scheme fits for a long-term country like ours. I assume that we all see the value of our country to have residents in both the city and the district. The citizens have taken note of the historic economic promise given to the municipalities after the last election. I am pleased that the Government says so clearly that the local welfare should be further strengthened and that the reverse operation announced in the Declaration of Accession should continue. This gives citizens security and enables local politicians to work on the development of local communities, and not just cut and cut off important welfare offers, as was the situation in the previous ageing period.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-14.ana.ud396e993	After many years in the municipal sector, it is very gratifying to be present in the main hall and hear the consensus that is now between the various parties that the local government sector needs a proper upgrade. I perceive that the opposition has turned around here, if not 180 degrees, it is at least a significant change in course. I also see it as a clear declaration of trust to the municipalities, as the important welfare producer they are. I'm glad that we've got a new government, and not least a municipal minister who has undertaken the task of providing the municipalities with a proper financial basis, and who has also set out a plan for a stepping up to balance tasks with the economy. But there's one area I'd like to put my finger on. I have followed, as I said, for many years and experienced that in this room you have a great faith that it is possible to tailor things for the 433 municipalities we have. We see it in the form of ringing in three areas: kindergartens, school interventions and psychiatry. Let me point out the following challenges: We have municipalities that have fully developed the kindergarten sector and have 100 pst. coverage. We have municipalities that have expanded their psychiatric services and have very good coverage. And we have municipalities that have invested in the school sector. But during the savings periods we are about to leave, this has often been at the expense of other sectors. Now, when we have another eartag, we don't hit these municipalities. In addition, we have municipalities that have a decline in population and that lose income, we have municipalities that experience tax failure, and we have municipalities that increase unforeseen expenditure. So my strong call to an excellent municipal minister is: look at these municipalities and what their situation is. Is it possible to take the money you save because these municipalities cannot use them, and transfer them to the county council in a discretionary court, so that they can be distributed later when these municipalities have proved that they have done the work that we assume they should do? Finally, I would like to express my satisfaction at the fact that the Minister for Local Affairs has said that she should look at the consultation system, so that we can move into a negotiating situation in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-14.ana.ud396e1010	I'm glad SV is in government with his closest friends. Being in position is quite different from being in opposition, it gives us opportunities – great opportunities – which this case shows with all clarity. An increase of over DKK 12 billion in the first two years of government for those who provide local welfare services, namely the municipalities and county municipalities, we can be proud of. SV is concerned with social smoothing. We are also concerned with smoothing out the differences between districts and central districts. We want people to be able to live, work and do value creation throughout the country. No policy approach is more important for national reconciliation than the income system for municipalities — and the expenditure bias. The Progress Party does not have much confidence in local elected representatives. They will leave everything to the market, and the state will have to pay the bill. The party of progress will send Grandma out on a tender and will place a price on the whole population. What's the price of a Norwegian eight-year-old in school? Can care be measured? How much does giving a hug cost? It cannot be measured at a single price. Therefore, it is important that municipalities are able to develop a worthwhile offer for the elderly, a good school for the young and good social services for people outside. The party of progress will rage this. They've suggested it black on white. Last year, they proposed to remove the basic subsidy that goes to all municipalities – the financial base plan for large and small municipalities. It has dramatic redistribution effects. The Ministry of Local Affairs has calculated the consequences of the proposals of the Progress Party. It is based on halving the basic grant that goes to each municipality in proportion to the current level, increasing the population grant accordingly, removing the North Norway grant, removing the regional subsidy. The consequences are dramatic. All municipalities in Northern Norway lose income – a total of billions. My own municipality, Lyngen, would lose $7 million. kr, and Nordreisa – the Progress Party has the rapporteur, John Karlsen – would lose 10 million. kr every year. I do not think John Karlsen is particularly pleased with this proposal. It will be narrow for the secondary school provision and for the transport sector in Troms, by losing 170 million. kr through smaller framework grants from the State. This has been proposed by the Progress Party, and then the billion they propose extra to the municipalities becomes a poor consolation. On the credibility of the Progress Party, I would say as Rudolf Nilsen: «Nothing is more like writing in the sand than promises of love» – or as we use to do in the north when we're kids: we write numbers in the snow. District municipalities throughout the country are affected. Large municipalities with economies of scale and small distances win. This is to take from the little ones and give to the big ones – an opposite Robin Hood policy. Where, then, is the Progress Party, which says they're a party to people most?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-14.ana.ud396e1027	We note that the Government does not propose changes to the income system in the municipal proposition for 2007, but has decided instead to carry out a separate review of the income system, and that it is not set up to propose changes to the municipalities until the municipal proposition for 2009. The professional basis for starting work on a new and fair income system was clear in 2005. There were clear political signals from all political parties that it was not desirable to implement the recommendation of the Borge Committee. It is therefore surprising that the Government did not immediately set up a political selection but instead chose to train a work that is urgent for the local government sector. If the Government had dropped a political sample immediately, a new income system could be implemented as early as 2008. However, from 2007 onwards, the Government announced several changes that have to do with the income system. The geographical area for taxing property is proposed to be extended. The left wants primarily a local tax that increases the ability to determine the local taxpayer, and sees it as a better model than voluntary property tax. Pending such a change, voluntary property tax is an option to levy local tax. Then it'll be up to the local populace to decide this. I must point out here that I will probably believe that most of the local people of the Left will not participate in the imposition of property taxes. However, we want this government to come back with a property tax assessment versus service level. The government proposes, a bit surprising, a tax relief in 2007 – in favour of the state and in favour of the municipalities. Then the representative Samuelsen said we should give incentives to the municipalities, a little remarkable. As I understood the representative Samuelsen, it's hard to see that it goes on in this. Here you cut from 4.25 pst. up to 3.5 pst. It particularly affects the economical communities, and it creates unpredictability in relation to the framework conditions when the rules of the game are changed without looking at the whole. Finally, I would like to comment on a differentiated employer's fee. The big picture is very good, but as a trouser, I have to say that I'm a little surprised at parts of the map, especially over the area I come from. The fact that parts of the Fosen joined Zone 1 and other parts of Zone 2 was not something one could have hoped for. But it was particularly regrettable that Meråker, with his great challenges, did not get the same thing as the namdal municipalities. This merely shows that the Government should have had a broader and more thorough review before the presentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-14.ana.ud396e1039	The reason I ask for the floor again is the discussion of taxes that have arisen during the debate. First of all, the property tax: that's what the representative Micaelsen quoted here. It is therefore wrong when it is said by the representatives of the Right that they have agreed to review the proposal and then put it away, but should put it in the machine. It would not have helped put that suggestion in the machine when they moved out of the Ministry of Finance's offices, as it says in Innst. S. No 232 for 2003-2004 on page 63, without reservation: ‘These members’ – including Jan Tore Sanner – ‘further support any change in the maximum limit for the adjustment of annual municipal property tax rates and changes that may increase the freedom of choice to distinguish, for example, dwellings and leisure properties, power plants and other commercial property’. So the so-called cab tax, which they now travel around the country and the beach and scare by exaggerating the estimate in relation to what could possibly be the tariff base, is a tax that they applied to on a proposal from Minister of Finance Per-Kristian Foss. That's why it's only mentioned in us as the Sanner tax, and it's still going to be. But just as bad is the presentation of corporate tax that is given in this debate. The right has a table in the position that only tells about the proceeds of taxpayers on corporate tax. This has led, for example, to: The representative Kari Lise Holmberg, who was up here and so much about corporate tax, has said to his locals in the Ski that the Ski loses 10 million. NOK at the percentage of corporation tax that we have spent on. The representative probably knows very well that within the same framework as all the lots are agreed on, another factor would have been reduced in that case. If, for example: was the personal tax, which is the most natural if a keeping ratio between tax and frame is fixed, so it is that the municipality of Skien, as the representative Holmberg claims loses 10 million. So kr, that's going to be $1 million. on the arrangements of the Government in relation to the arrangements placed on the market by the Right. When the representative Höie was up here and used Arendal as an example, which they obviously based on their crooked performance has led people to believe lose 10 million. kr, the consequence for Arendal with a corresponding calculated comparison is that they make a little bit of money – just NOK 600 000, but they make a little money – on the model we have set up, in relation to what the Right claims. So it's given a completely wrong representation when the right is just using corporate tax and imagining people that it's a net bill. I haven't experienced the spouse of misleading marketing since the pyramid wave went over Norway in the wildest, and The Five Percent Community promised people gold and green forests for which there was no coverage. That's the same thing right now with respect to corporate tax.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-14.ana.ud396e1055	The councils were quite open in their reply to my reply about a wide-ranging range of incomes. If the Council of State can confirm today that she will consider setting up such a wide-ranging body, the opposition will turn this proposal into a transmission proposal. So to the representative Andersen, first of all, to the issue of property taxes: that a gallant chooses to ignore the concept of ‘appreciating’ may be effective in internal party meetings, but not effective when a meeting is real. One of the reasons the Labour Party used in the election campaign was that it was important to get a majority government to know where the responsibility was. I note that this tax is so unpleasant to the three government parties that they skip responsibility as soon as they have a chance to do so. This tax was assessed by us and rejected. This government introduces it. Now the majority government is going to take responsibility for the policy they're running, not the opposition. In the case of corporate tax, one also disregards the fact that corporate tax is a way of distributing money between municipalities on which there is a justification. Therefore, the percentage is not immaterial, nor is it immaterial if a municipality receives less corporation tax than it would have had if that government had been able to implement a predictable income system and not change competition in the middle of the rise – for that is what has been proposed here. It's quite amazing that one describes the situation of saying that the distribution of these 1.3 billion is so unfair that it's why one has drawn them in and distributes them through the ordinary distribution. But if these 1.3 billion are distributed unfairly, why in the world didn't the Government pull in the entire amount and distribute the 5 billion left in corporation tax the same way? It shows that this is a tax or a way of financing the municipality on which these parties plan to remove, thus removing the motivation for municipalities to facilitate value creation and create a basis for new welfare in the future. So to the figures for the municipality of Stavanger, which are the figures that I like in relation to the debate that has been, they have at least been referred to in newspaper essays and given in the opinions of the Labour Party's own rapporteur. Stavanger losses in corporate tax 85,5 million. kr in relation to the original arrangement. They'll be compensated for between 12 and 26 million. kr with the new distribution of the 1.3 billion, which means they lose between 60 and 70 million. kr in relation to the arrangement of the opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-14.ana.ud396e1066	For someone who's been on the municipal committee for the past eight years, I have to say that this is a different municipal economic debate than I've ever had, and there's also a different economic situation in the municipal sector than it has been for the whole time. That is why there is reason to pay great tribute to the Government for the great promise that has been made for the municipal sector, which means tremendously much to important tasks, such as school, care and health. That's why it's very strange to listen to representatives of the previous government parties, who alternate between suspense that it's not enough, and take the credit that there's a lot of money now. It's very hard to understand the attacks they're now trying to target the government because there's not enough money, because they actually have to take on the reality that if they had got what they wanted, there would have been several billion less in the municipal sector. There had been fewer teachers; there had been fewer older people who had been accommodated in nursing homes; there had been fewer children who had been helped by child protection; there had been less money for leisure and cultural services in the municipal sector. That's why I think it's a little strange to hear the tone that some people are putting on today. So to the corporate tax, and what's done to it. The reason for having a company tax is that an actual person gets an extra tax when it goes well in a municipality, and that's a way to think about it. But I don't think municipalities that get income through the corporate tax system because they don't have so many jobs are going to be especially better at driving business development by having less money. Therefore, SV is happy with the rotation that has been made now, and we look forward to the review that is to be done by the whole system in order to make it more fair, so that all municipalities can carry out good business development. You don't get very good at driving business development when you don't have the resources to do it. So finally to the property tax. SV does not intend to skip the responsibility for it. On the contrary, we believe that people in the municipalities are in fact able to decide in terms of choice, and to choose between the parties who say that they will go in for a municipal property tax and use the money for important welfare tasks and to the community in the municipalities – which very many people say they are actually willing to do if they only know that this money goes there – and the parties who think it's okay with less money in the municipal sector and less property tax. That election we think people are actually able to take the sea, and that freedom of choice seems obviously the bourgeois parties people are unable to take. Finally, differentiated employer's fee and Nord-Trøndelag. I just want to remind the representative of Skkelstad that the map of the government where his party was represented did not include Nord-Trøndelag at all when it comes to a differentiated employer's fee.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-14.ana.ud396e1077	It is well possible that many of the representatives of the government parties who have criticised the policy of the Progress Party here today, either do not have such a long experience of local government policy itself or have forgotten it very quickly after they arrived here. The experience I have at least gained is that I still have the benefit of meeting a single local politician who sees it as an important part of local democracy, for example. laying down hospital places. I'm still happy to meet that local politician, and that's precisely because these are basic services that should be the same all over the country. It is national tasks that need to be solved through direct unit-price financing from the country. On the other hand, there are completely different things our local politicians, regardless of the party, experience as important to local democracy. It's not least, and it's been mentioned earlier here today, about plan and area issues. The clandestine governance of the county council in relation to the local policies that should be pursued locally is an example of over-management and of the lack of democracy, not of the possibility of decommissioning hospitals. Nor has anyone said, as it is made here, that it is the market to take over, and that unit-price financing automatically means that only private people have to come up with solutions. Of course, municipalities should be able to provide health care facilities. Municipalities shall be able to offer schools. But the only change we're talking about here is that instead of the money coming through framework transfers, they have to be paid directly per. use from the State, directly to school, directly to the hospital, and not, as today, first enter a municipal budget before they are paid. It can be seen that not least government representatives choose not to do so, because they have spent so much money on cultural houses and beautiful town halls. This is the principle in the price model. It's not very hard to understand. It's also wrong what's suggested here in these calculations, not least from the Center Party, where you've calculated how terrible our policy will be. The problem with that calculation is that only one part has been taken into account, just a tab of our policy, without seeing the policy in the context. It is not possible to look at our financing of the municipalities without taking into account the impact of the price financing, because it is close to 80 pst. of what is today municipal taxes. It's simply not durable. The kind of presentation of our policies I would have asked myself for, because I think most people understand this. I just want to briefly mention what goes on between parts of the country. It is clear that geographical differences and different needs among users indicate that the unit price cannot be the same anywhere. That's why we're talking about a differentiated price. What this means is to have a system that makes it necessary and not the local economy that provides the basic services.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-14.ana.ud396e1088	The President will encourage everyone to have respect for speaking time. We have a long map.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-14.ana.ud396e1091	This government believes that municipalities should be able to solve all the tasks of the care services only by transferring more funds. It's not going to work. Until now, it has been shown over the years that the municipality has been responsible, that there have been great differences. There have been varying governments, but it turns out that local priorities mean a lot. There is also a misallocation of funds to the municipalities, as many municipalities point out. And with the big and complicated system we have today for funding, it will be impossible to give all the municipalities exactly the right thing. It'll be skewed all the time. We also have a number of holiday municipalities that are required to provide services for holiday guests, and there are more and more elderly people living in holiday resorts for much of the year. The municipality does not receive funds to ensure this. These people are entitled to short-term places, hospitalisation places and home services from the host municipality. I can mention the municipality of Håler, which usually has approx. 4 000 inhabitants, but with up to 35,000 inhabitants in the summer. This municipality does not receive five dollars for the services it must provide to the elderly from other municipalities. The funding system we have today is not working. It's that simple. Property tax is also introduced in some municipalities. What is used as an argument is that older people should be offered better. The elderly are being pushed forward in the fight. This is unworthy. We all agree, I think, that the elderly should have an offer when they need it. They should be entitled to a health care centre regardless of the municipality in which they live. And when my mother, who lives in Oslo, needs a nursing home, when that day comes and if I live in Fredrikstad, I want her to get a sick home place there, if she wants it herself. Today the families live quite widely, and it is important that you have flexibility so that those who want it have an opportunity to be near the family, and not necessarily near where you had your previous dwelling. I wish the government could be a little open to looking at new solutions, and not interfere with local democracy. It's not a local democratic right to say no to old nurturing people. This is a new service introduced in the last ten years. There is nothing the municipalities have been responsible for at all times. Government funding will not weaken local democracy, this is about the Progress Party wanting to give older rights, and wanting to give older people equal rights throughout the country. So one last wish that you now stop hustling with the proposal the Progress Party has made, because it's an honest proposal, and it's supposed to do better for those who want to have the offer. I don't think a single municipal politician is going to miss cutting off in the care sector, which they have to do in every budget. And it's not a government gift package that comes now. The 10 000 posts were from 2004. You're just short on the road – and you've got a long way to go. In Sweden, there are 12,000 more sick homes compared to Norway compared to the population.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-14.ana.ud396e1102	I will limit myself to giving a comment to the Borge Committee, and answer the one question I have experienced that I have received. It's also linked to the Borge Committee. The comment first: I hear right now saying that they have been putting the Borge selection in a drawer all along since it came. It sounds funny, considering that Erna Solberg sent the sample report to the hearing, only a few days before we entered the government offices. So that was the question related to the follow-up to the Borge Committee. In this room, we all agree that there is a need for a review of the income system. The government will now review the attitude of the Civil Service Committee, and we will make policy assessments of the work of the sample. In addition, we will look at a number of aspects of the income system that the Borge Committee did not look at, such as: corporation tax and countervailing of income. I'm not sure that a broad political and party-based selection is necessarily the most appropriate thing to go into this work. But what I have said before today, and what I would like to stress, is that in this work we are busy having close dialogue, not only with the KS, which is a completely natural partner, but also with the opposition to the Stortinget. So in any case, I want to make sure that we have close and good dialogue, that we get a good process in which everyone feels included in relation to developing the new income system for municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-14.ana.ud396e1113	I just have to make a little comment to the representative Per-Willy Amundsen's posts instead. He said that the Centre Party has, in its own discretion, been able to calculate the consequences of the Advance Party's policy. What we've done is figure out the consequences of the proposals made by the Progress Party in the previous year's municipal proposal. And the consequences of them would have been disastrous, for the whole of North Norway went in minus! So I understand that the representative Amundsen is trying to ridicule those figures as much as possible, because he is unable to stand on the consequences of his own policy, and the party's misguided municipal policy. With regard to the proposal for a differentiated unit price, how will it work? The representative Amundsen says you have to pay for each school. Do you have to calculate one factor for every small village and branch in all of Norway? Is it going to be a factor for all the different old-age homes around the country? It would have been a huge bureaucracy, and it would have been impossible to manage. I don't understand how the Progress Party has intended to put this theory into practice. I hope I never get to experience it, with that kind of math. I also think the rapporteurs from the Progress Party are pleased that it is not the Progress Party that has a majority in today's position. So I would say one thing about property taxes: the government has proposed, and the majority supports it, that there should be a mandatory exception for agricultural and forestry property in terms of property taxes. Previously, there was a voluntary derogation, now there is to be a mandatory derogation. That proposal does not support the Right and the Advance Party. They argue that there should be an exception for agricultural and forestry property in the case of property taxes. I cannot understand that they do not see the economic challenges of agriculture and forestry and that they do not support the exemption proposed by the Government when they have a general skeptical attitude to property taxes.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-14.ana.ud396e1122	I also felt reason to take the floor after a comment from the representative Per-Willy Amundsen. The opinions of the Centre Party must be based on 1) little experience, and 2) that they have forgotten what they have experienced with experience. Believe me, this is not the case. I have a lot of experience in municipal politics, almost 30 years. I have brief experience from Stortinget, so it hasn't sunk a dark one over my memory. I would like to take seriously the contribution of the Advance Party, but I would like to ask you to go in and study the evaluation report on the unit price financing in the hospital sector. Look what happened to it! See how complicated it finally became! And look at the conclusion: it was added aside. With experience from the community sector, in the health and social sector, and also from the county municipality, I ask: What criteria will be used for accommodation? How do you want to weigh the different factors? We're talking about people who need an offer, from healthy, up-and-coming people who, for special reasons, get into a community service, to heavily nurturing. I think we see a bureaucratic apparatus that the Progress Party will quickly shadow away.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-14.ana.ud396e1131	Maybe it wasn't from the Center Party that I was waiting to hear the criticism for a big bureaucratic system. The things in the proposition show with all clarity that it wants a strong one. So based on that, a support should, if one thinks that's how this is going to work. But I'm going to say that if someone were to get involved in what's our principal program, and not well, as the Ministry of Local Affairs has done, assuming that you might have created a phase in advance, you might have got a correct calculation. What we struggle with many times is to make people understand and understand that if you're going to count on the Progress Party's policy, you have to do it on the basis of a health assessment of what's in our principal programme, even when it's about price financing. I would argue that having a good deal to do in the hospital sector, at least I'm convinced that the bureaucracy that's going to count on this will have no problem in the municipal sector, because there's a significant difference between the hospital sector and the municipal sector. I think we just have to admit in the Progress Party that we have a pedagogical problem, and that's to make people understand and understand that if you're going to do something, you have to make it based on an honest attempt to use that part of our program that tells you what the math is after you're done with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-14.ana.ud396e1142	Bent Höie has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-14.ana.ud396e1146	I perceived the Council's response so that she did not meet our desire to set up a broad political body, along with the KS, to look at the income system. The opposition thus maintains proposal No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-14.ana.ud396e1151	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 2771]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-14.ana.ud396e1167	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-14.ana.ud396e1176	I am pleased that the proposers address such an important matter as this. This issue is about municipal control committees becoming more independent. The handling of this matter is particularly important, and it is about credibility. The establishment of control committees in all municipalities and counties entered the municipal law as early as 1992. But in the cold water of some things you've seen in the municipal sector lately, especially the dramatic we've experienced in Rome, there may be a basis for asking some questions about today's system. Is today’s system working? And is it satisfactory? KS has conducted a survey in all municipalities, where it appears that 58 municipalities have treated corruption cases in the municipality in the last six months, and 25 municipalities report that they have experienced corruption or attempted corruption. Then this is a problem, as I see it. The fact that the Council of State, by letter of 25 April this year, also recognises that the proposers address a relevant and topical issue and that there is a common position in the Committee that the control committees should be effective and active supervisory bodies is also positive. It is then that the KS, the Committee and the State Council see the issue at stake. But the means and the will to do something immediately are not there. The proposers and the minority in the Committee recognise that the local authorities must have access to the delegation of control committees which do not function or do not carry out their tasks. The reasons for the proposal are to ensure that the minority in the municipal control committees have access to the review of possible maladministration in the municipality. In the Grand Duchy’s Rules of Procedure, a provision on minority rights was introduced in 2003 in the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee of the Grand Duchy. In this context, it was emphasised that minority rights are a fundamental contribution to strengthening the control function. In my view, this consideration is also present in the municipal sector. I see that the independence of the control committees is a prerequisite for credibility when a control and supervision job is to be done, and there should be a clear distinction between the controllers and the controllers. It is strange that in many ways independent control and audit requirements are more stringent in private companies than in public enterprises. For example, a private sector auditor may: have no employment relationship with the person to be audited, but a municipal auditor may be employed in the municipality. This is also one of the reasons why more and more municipalities choose to distinguish between the units that order and the units that provide the public services. – I experience this information as a kind of adult education. I also want to refer to something that can be experienced as a problem. Today, a municipal control committee must have a majority, often a political majority, in order to deal with important issues. This is a challenge because the control committees are just about to control key politicians and bureaucrats. Norwegian municipalities are characterised by a consensus culture, and the requirements for independence become extra difficult to comply with in small municipalities where everyone knows everyone. There are a number of laws and regulations granting minority rights in public bodies. I think it would be natural to give the minority in municipal control committees equivalent rights. Finally, I would like to point out that these conditions could put local democracy at risk, and democracy is not served. You get a suspicion and you can lose credibility. Important questions have been raised by the proposers. I take up the proposals from the Progress Party, the Right and the Left, which are included in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-14.ana.ud396e1197	The representative Ib Thomsen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-14.ana.ud396e1200	The government has announced that it will assess the need for legislative changes in this area in order to strengthen the independence of control committees. This will happen after a thorough review of the situation has been carried out and if there is reason to say that the independence of these samples is too weak and can thus hamper the control and supervision work in the municipalities. In our opinion, it is hasty to draw conclusions before we have more knowledge of this reality. That is why we believe it is right that the proposal by Dahl, Höie and Engeset should be dealt with in the minutes. Corruption, unethical trafficking and irresponsible use of public funds are, of course, totally unacceptable. However, it is very important to stress that this is generally not what characterises Norwegian municipalities. But even though the scope is limited, this is about completely unacceptable behaviour that we must actively prevent and combat in all ways. This is the Government very deeply concerned, and I am absolutely sure that it will be followed up by the Government in an offensive manner within a reasonable time.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-14.ana.ud396e1209	I would like to refer to the rapporteur's comments and our joint comments on the matter together with the Left, and I fully agree with the excellent report. There are only two aspects that I would like to raise in addition, and which are an important reason why we are now in favour of this proposal and do not accept that it will be annexed to the Minutes. One is that it is quite clear that one in more and more municipalities in recent years has been given a much more politicized opposition and position in the management of the municipalities, while the Municipality of Norway was not so many years ago more marked by the fact that the principle of leadership was stronger with a kind of consensus culture. It was perhaps to a greater extent satisfactory that one had a control committee that reflected the political composition of the municipality, and also had no extended rights to raise cases beyond what is currently the law. In a situation where more and more municipalities are characterised by very clearly defined opposition and position, it is not reliable that those in position can block the work of the control committee. The second point is that the work that has been done, and the issues that have recently been, has made us very numerous enquiries from members of the control committee throughout the country expressing concern for this very relationship. As long as there is doubt about the independence of the control committees in relation to the political position in the municipality, we believe that the Stortinget should have asked the Government today to propose changes to the municipal law in order to increase the independence of the control committees. Here one does not invite the Stortinget to make a decision on a change in the law and the text of the law, but one asks the Stortinget to make a decision that that is the direction in which we are going. It is therefore quite surprising that this proposal does not get a wider agreement, given all the political attention this problem has had. I am afraid that one is about to spend too much time again and let the matter run out in the sand. Then there's new revelations and new big things, one gets the same promises again, and then we'll see if something happens. Here the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Left will give a clear message that this is something on which a concrete work must be started here and now, and that the direction has been given from the Stortinget, but unfortunately we do not seem to get a majority for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-14.ana.ud396e1224	Let me first point out that municipal employees have a very high ethical standard throughout. Many municipalities work well with questions related to everything from the fight against corruption to the fight to ensure that all employees have enough ballast to exercise a wise judgment. That being said, one case of corruption or one case of bad judgement in the municipal sector is one instance too much. I'm very concerned that we should have a clean municipal sector, and I'm fundamentally concerned about some of the cases we've seen in the late days. This is also why we are now setting up a separate ethics committee, which will work based on the work that KS has done through, among other things. its four regional ethics conferences. The proposal in Document No. 8:45 addresses important questions. I can just say that I want to take with me the suggestions that lie there, in the further work. I believe that both the majority and the minority in the vote agree with the need for strong and independent control committees. As you can see, this is a good basis for further work. The disagreement is whether there is a basis for making legislative changes right now, or whether we should have the issues more clear to us and a closer review of the issues we are facing. I am pleased that the Committee has agreed that some more experience should be gained before considering changes in the rules regarding the independence of the control committees. Many fundamental questions are raised in connection with this. It is a fact that both majority and minority power can be abused. It is demanding to regulate how to organise this work. I'm very clear that this needs to be further worked on. We're still working on this right now. If it turns out to be a continuous feature that the independence of the control committees is not good enough, it should definitely do something about it. The ethics committee that we are about to set up will also be given, as one of its tasks, a closer look at the self-control of the municipalities in general and the independence of the control committees in particular.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-14.ana.ud396e1237	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 2772]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-14.ana.ud396e1253	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-14.ana.ud396e1262	First, I would be allowed to thank the proposers for addressing a very topical issue. In recent years, the pressure on privacy has increased, and it is important that a coherent and consistent privacy policy is pursued. Inconceivable terrorist actions such as: The United States, London and Madrid have experienced, not only do people become anxious, but there will also be demands from the population that governments must do absolutely everything they can to avoid new acts of terrorism. In this context, a number of individual actions may seem sensible and fully in place. However, we need to regularly stop and evaluate these measures, both in isolation and in the context of privacy. No one wants a state that George Orwell describes in his dystopi «1984», where society is characterized by thought management and monitoring, and where one has a «Big Brother» who sees everything. An independent Commission may be a measure to develop such an overview and status of the privacy challenges. We are pleased that the Council of State will take a closer look at the proposal, and that she wants to come back to Stortinget with this matter in a suitable way. We are also pleased that the Council of State indicates that privacy issues are taken into account in all individual matters where this is important. It shows that the government is taking these issues seriously. In the light of what I have said, the majority proposes that the proposal be annexed to the Minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-14.ana.ud396e1279	I'm not going to spend so long on this. We've come a long way in the day, and there's no reason for the Progress Party to spend so much time on this either. We support the proposal. We show in the remarks that we are skeptical of the increasing Commissioner in the Storting. We believe that it is important that the political debate is conducted in the Stortinget. That's where he belongs, and that's where he'll be. I'm not going to say anything more about it, other than that I want to address the proposal from the minority.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-14.ana.ud396e1288	The representative Åge Starheim has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-14.ana.ud396e1291	I am pleased that the proposal has been received positively. I see it this way, both from the opinions of the Council of State and from the rapporteur of the matter. Otherwise, I would like to say that it is probably an expression of the situation that the matter is almost aged in time. It does not deserve it, for the matter is about a subject that is sensitive and demanding. When the Left has proposed a Commission reduced by the Storting, it is not at all because we criticise the Government, which is represented here by the Minister of Justice, who in this Chamber has expressed his commitment in this area in a committed and strong way. We have simply done this to invite you to take a step outside of everyday life and raise your eyes to a matter that is urgent. Some of the things that are intrusive in this area are, as the rapporteur was also in the case, that parts of technological development are so violent that if we go a lot away from where the debate has taken place in recent years, namely criminal law, and go into people's everyday lives, you can't move after all without leaving electronic tracks anywhere. It always happens for some reason, that it's useful because of some practical purpose. A key card in a hotel leaves electronic tracks. You go through everyday life and leave yourself a series of such tracks. Finally, you almost get the question: what did you really do, since you didn't leave electronic tracks? And of course, we get to the core question: are you entitled to a private sphere? Similarly, on the second extreme of the scale, society is right, for example. against serious crime under certain legal rules and under specific and strict legal procedures, to persecute, inter alia, some. by electronic control? All this violent development in everyday life means that you have to raise your eyes. The Swedes have done this by looking at privacy issues related to a very broad Commission. If we go into the public sector, it is a fact that the EU currently has a traffic data directive, i.e. a directive dealing with all kinds of connections we have with each other – on mobile phone, on telephone, on data, etc. – which is very comprehensive and on which there is almost no debate in Norway. But there is actually a certain debate about this in the European Parliament. At least one must be able to reflect on such a debate in our country. It is also the case that the EU is about to make it almost mandatory to have a GPS transmitter in each car, because then you have an overview of where you are. Once again, we have the right to have a trackless life, which I believe must be an opportunity. It must not be the case that one should be as monitored as the case-rapporteur was. It was an American film a few years ago called the Enemy of the State that illustrated these issues in a rather thoughtful way. There may be many other examples. The whole point of a commission is that instead of getting things bit by bit, where intrusive heavy considerations often push the balances forward, it would have been right to go a step aside, lift your eyes and look into this complicated reality. The Director of the Data Protection Agency, Georg Apenes, has used the word «panopticon» for the fact that a lot of mirrors should be used to see the many challenges of privacy – not because of the fascination at that time, but because at least you become so suspicious that you know the balances you face, so that you don't get the answer easily. We live in a country that, in my opinion, is governed by the tyranny of practical needs. If we see that something is practical here in Norway, we'll do it. Then we suddenly discovered two years later that we went too far, and then the pendulum swings pretty hard and cash back again. In our neighbouring country, Sweden, at a certain time when the tax evasions were huge, it was thought that the postal service was to be recruited – it no longer exists – to make sure that people really lived where they said they lived. Another option would be to make the tax system less complicated, so you didn't have to think about it. But at all events, all these balances that intervene in people's everyday lives, in the private sphere, are, first of all, far away from criminal law in everyday life, not to mention all forms of criminal law – it's quite important. The Minister of Justice has said the thought-provoking. He has said that he is very critical and imaginative about having to increase the total monitoring need or pressure in our society. I think that's wise words. I support them and like to join them. That was said in an exchange with my party trap Lars Sponheim here in the hall. On this basis, we maintain the proposal, but at the same time we perceive that both the Government at the Council of State's response and the majority of the Committee have given a signal that they are taking this seriously. Finally, I would like to repeat that this from the Left is not a criticism of the Government, but it is an outstretched hand to invite us to raise our eyes and together raise something that is demanding. None of us are becoming everyday heroes of lifting things, but as a society we become wiser and richer by taking it seriously. I am also pleased that the rapporteur presented the matter in such a way. With this, I support the proposal that has already been raised on behalf of the minority in the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-14.ana.ud396e1319	I am of the opinion – and have the Government with me on it, of course – that the Storing representatives Sponheim and Dørum point to very important challenges in their Document No. Eight proposals. Firstly, they address, as the rapporteur says, a problem that is extremely important, but the proposers go a step further in many ways. This problem is also being given more substance. In debates on privacy, we have often experienced that the honorary orders are loose, but when we come to more practical measures, we have problems seeing what we are actually going to do. That's why the government wants some time to turn around, and I think it's good that a total accumulation – all the parties – is behind the intentions of such a proposal. It is obvious that privacy is subject to pressure in many ways. First of all, we see that privacy is weakened on the basis of a frequently event-driven criminal policy, where we see that events outside the world, but also in our own society, are pushing us, whether we want to or not, to take positions that we might not have done too soon back. The second is that this event-driven activity often causes a more international domino effect. When one country introduces a method, other countries feel that they have to do the same. And when there are many countries in the world that think of many good measures, which are isolated good, there will be extra pressure when all countries want to have as similar policies as possible, among other things. the fight against crime. Privacy must therefore be said to have had to give way to many fronts in recent years. The annual privacy impact assessments in Stortinget in connection with the submission of the Storing Communication on the Annual Communications of the Data Protection Authority and the National Data Protection Authority show broad recognition of privacy as a good thing. On the other hand, when privacy is set up for other benefits, such as: However, efficiency or a sense of security often proves that privacy needs to be relaxed. It is easy to be privacy-friendly in theory, but not always as easy to be in practice. For this reason, it is important to provide a comprehensive overview of the challenges to privacy. I want to add: especially because many of the methods that have weakened privacy, depend on people's trust and legitimacy to become effective. There is not necessarily a contradiction between thinking privacy and thinking effective methods. To ensure that the methods, such as: The police use, have legitimacy in the population, is, in my opinion, crucial. I agree that privacy is therefore facing major challenges, and that it is desirable to look at privacy more fully. I know that I share this view not only with the proposers, but also with my colleague Heidi Grande Røys, with the Director of the Data Protection Authority and with the Head of the Data Protection Board. Proposals have proposed the creation of a Data Protection Commission to be deployed in 2007. Much of the intention behind the Commission should speak for the work to extend beyond that. My colleague, Heidi Grande Røys, has proposed in a letter to the Stortinget that the department concerned should look into the proposal and come back to Stortinget with this in an appropriate way. In the adoption of the Data Protection Act in 2000, the Stortinget decided to carry out an evaluation of the law after four years of operation. My department, in cooperation with the Ministry of Innovation and Administration and the Data Protection Department, started this back-up check in 2005. Part of the work was transferred to the University of Oslo, while other parts were done under their own control. The first part has been proposed for consultation within a few weeks. This applies to legislative proposals on the right of employers to access the e-mail of employees, etc. I think it might be unfortunate with two parallels running here now – the back-up and a collapse-designated privacy commission, which is being suggested limited in time, as I was about to. A more comprehensive review at departmental level will avoid duplication and coordination problems by perhaps establishing two different models of implementation in the legislation. The post-control of personal data protection legislation will also provide important insights into how we will be able to follow up operationally to the best possible future of data protection. In addition, data protection issues are cross-sectoral. By looking at the proposal of the proposers in cooperation with my colleagues in other departments, we will be able to get a relatively comprehensive overview of current projects and investigations, with one side to the data protection issue. Important departments here include: Ministry of Transport, Ministry of Health and Welfare and Ministry of Labour and Inclusion. Then I also feel the need to say that in May this year my department organized a conference where a possible fundamental law on privacy was the subject. There were many good views here on why privacy should be enshrined – in line with other human rights, such as the right to freedom of expression – actually the right to be alone. My department is now working on how to follow up on this in a good way. I am of the opinion that this is an extremely important matter, and I believe that the government should also have the time you are now asking for.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-14.ana.ud396e1345	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-14.ana.ud396e1348	I would like to thank the Council of State for a thorough and adequate response. I would also like to take the opportunity to say that I share his view of how easily you get domino effects in this area. It may apply in the field of criminal policy, which may apply in the fight against terrorism, and it may definitely apply in the many practical activities of everyday life. I also perceive that the Minister of Justice confirms the commitment he has previously expressed in the main hall, and that the Government is also doing so, by being the representative of the Government here today. It underlines the interaction between different governments in a government. I should like to hear the thoughts of the Council of State on how he can imagine that you actually get this good work. The Council of State and I have it in common that we know the possibilities, but also the constraints, by working in a department. Being able to get recordings that give heavy and imaginative competence, where people get to fight each other, has been our intention on this proposal. I would like to hear what thoughts the Council of State has for just in practice to go on with what he gave some sketches into the post from the pulpit.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-14.ana.ud396e1355	I am of the opinion that the idea of a data protection commission seems to be a good idea, in the sense that there is an opportunity for us to see this in its entirety. That is why, in my speech, I tried to say that the limitation in time, as the proposers have set up, can definitely be the subject of debate, in the sense that we are looking here for instruments and mechanisms to work with the departments, but also with the Stortinget and in the public debate, and that can contribute at any time, when the pressure comes in the individual proposals, to put this into an overall framework. That is because we need protection. It is because we need to point out that this is a proposal that has privacy aspects in it, which in some cases is the basis for stopping, that is the basis for protecting against it, but it may also be the basis for taking precautions in relation to it – not least in relation to making the methods you propose effective, so that you have confidence and legitimacy out of it. I believe that instruments – schemes – can be found here that make it possible to get this debate, also in addition to a Commission, for example. in connection with the discussion of the Annual Report of the Data Protection Authority in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-14.ana.ud396e1360	Several have not asked for the word for a line. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[See page 2772]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-14.ana.ud396e1378	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2773]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-14.ana.ud396e1394	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 2774]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-14.ana.ud396e1410	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it will be suggested that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-14.ana.ud396e1419	I would like to thank the Committee for the work that has been done, for the fact that we have jointly managed to find good solutions, for lasting solutions, on the basis of a Document No. Eight proposals. I think we have done a good job of political work, and we have managed to reconcile ourselves, even though the underlying proposal has not been approved. What I am pleased with is that cooperation has resulted in good changes and support for the changes outlined by the Council of State, Bjarne Håkon Hanssen, in his reply to the Committee. There are essentially three measures the Council of State Hanssen outlines. The first amendment is that in assessing ‘strong human interests’, self-treatment based on the situation of the children is to be carried out, where residence can be provided if the children have developed a strong connection with the kingdom as a result of long-term residence. The requirement for living is not absolute, but it is assumed that children will often develop such relationships more quickly than adults. Document No The 8th proposal from the Christian People's Party is based on the fact that many children are – and have been – long in the reception of asylum in a temporary housing offer that is not worth and good over time. Here's a corresponding answer to that. Secondly, the Government announces that the threshold should be lowered in order to obtain a residence permit upon a request for a final decision, so that once there is a ‘strong human interest’, it can again be granted, inter alia. in order to be able to see the situation of children — that there may be ‘strong human interests’ in order for them to be allowed to stay. It is also important for me to be told as rapporteur-in-Office that this is a follow-up to what the three red-green parties have said in the Soria Moria Declaration, and that this case has contributed to us now being informed that we are going to change this provision – that it is no longer to be called ‘very strong human considerations’, but ‘strong human concerns’. It is good to see that the Christian People's Party and the Left have joined that position, and that is a change of political stance on the part of the Christian People's Party and the Left. Thirdly, amendments to the existing foreign regulation are notified so that persons who have received a final refusal to apply for asylum may be granted a residence permit if the return has not been completed within three years of the establishment of the proceedings and there are no return prospects. However, there are conditions under which the person has contributed to clarifying his/her identity during the period as an asylum seeker and has contributed to enabling return, including to obtaining the travel documents of the home Member State. The majority agree with the Council of State that this should be a general scheme, which will thus also apply to children and children's families who have been asylum seekers. In order to prevent many children from staying in the future for years at reception, which was initially intended to be a temporary residence offer, it is essential that something is done. In this respect, I would like to point out that there are two main factors determining the time of residence at reception, namely the time of proceedings and the time taken to implement final decisions, i.e. either to settle persons who have been granted residence or to return persons who have been refused. All parties other than the Progress Party refer to the measures described in the letter of the State Council of Bjarne Håkon Hanssen to the Committee. This letter states that the Government will consider a number of measures to prevent children from staying long in reception. This includes the assessment of the need for resources in the processing process, the fastest possible settlement after the granting of a residence permit, the prioritisation of work on return agreements and the assessment of measures to improve the effectiveness of return work itself, including measures to stimulate and motivate voluntary return. The majority are also satisfied with and have a strong understanding that the Ministry will consider various measures that can help more asylum seekers to provide travel documents and actively help to clarify their identity and possible ambiguities in the application. This will lead to faster procedures, shorter waiting times in reception and faster residence of asylum seekers who are granted residence. I am pleased that we have had a principle approach in relation to this treatment. We haven't come up with an emergency plan for those who are here right now. We have managed to get a position and have received a response from the Council of State that shows that we want to reintroduce lasting, concrete changes that can improve the situation for some and create greater flexibility and a more humane immigration policy. I therefore recommend, on behalf of the majority, that Document No. 8:69 is appended to the minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-14.ana.ud396e1447	All the children who are the starting point of this case have been accompanied by parents or other caregivers. The number of children and families in the system will increase in the future unless there is an increased flow. There are mainly two factors determining the time of residence at reception. That is the time for the proceedings, and that is the time for final decisions to be taken. For families with final rejection of the asylum application, there are major returns challenges. Many come from countries where forced return is difficult or impossible, and when parents do not want to travel voluntarily and do not cooperate with authorities, for example, on the clarification of identity, forced return may be difficult to implement. In 2004, after treatment in Stortinget, a temporary regulation was given to families with children who had been at least three years of age in Norway, one year after final rejection, to receive a new, individual assessment of the case with a focus on the situation of children. One of the prerequisites for the decision was that the then municipal minister Erna Solberg would take action to avoid a new accumulation of cases. It is very serious that the previous government did not follow this up enough, and that is also why we are now in the same situation. We in the Labour Party have been clear that we do not want to support a new amnesty-like system. The fact that an asylum seeker will not comply with legally adopted decisions to leave the State should not be rewarded with a permanent residence permit in Norway. Such practices would undermine the institution of asylum, and this would be contrary to the interests of immigration policy. At the same time, we would stress that the legal certainty of foreigners seeking residence in this country should be ensured. This includes, inter alia: the right of foreigners to appeal decisions or to request a request for conversion. Firstly, the Government will intensify its efforts to reduce the length of proceedings. This work is already well under way by the Government. The government will focus on the rights and the life situation of children coming to Norway as asylum seekers. The government will therefore consider a number of measures to prevent children from staying in reception for a long time. This includes the assessment of the need for resources in the proceedings, as well as the fastest possible settlement after obtaining a residence permit. Furthermore, the Government will give priority to work on return agreements and assess measures to improve the effectiveness of the return work itself, including measures to stimulate and motivate voluntary return. In addition, the Government has notified a change of regulations to take account of those referred to as irreversibles. It has also been important for the majority that the solutions we choose are so principled that they can be passed on in whole or in part and permanently enshrined in the new Foreign Affairs Act. According to the law, the best interests of the child shall be a fundamental consideration of all decisions affecting children, and we in the Workers' Party are pleased to note that: ‘shall be treated independently based on the situation of the children, where residence may be provided if the children have developed a strong connection with the kingdom’. Children will often develop such a relationship faster than adults. The Council of State has further indicated that the Government will start work on legislative changes to reduce the threshold for obtaining a residence permit following a request for the conversion of final decisions, so that once there is «strong human interest», there can be once again a stay in the handling of the UN conversion request. The Council of State has also announced that: «The Government will agree to amend the applicable foreign regulations and, at the hearing, submit a proposal that persons who have received a final refusal to apply for asylum may obtain a residence permit under the second paragraph of Section 8 of the Foreign Affairs Act, if the return has not been completed within three years of the establishment of the case and there are no prospects of return». It is made clear that: ‘shall be subject to conditions whereby persons have contributed to clarifying their identity during the period as asylum seekers and that they have contributed to the possibility of returning, including contributing to obtaining the travel documents of the home Member State’. The proposed regulatory changes and other measures should be implemented as soon as possible. The majority believe that it is reasonable to restate the effectiveness of the forced dispatch of children and children’s families which could be expected to be re-treated in accordance with new legislation. Finally, I would like to commend the proposers both for their commitment to the children and for finding a solution in a broad settlement. I think this is a very good example of a solution-oriented opposition and a listening majority. Through this agreement, we both ensure that we have a system that is sustainable and can thus stand over time, and not least the consideration of the many who are and are going to be in a very difficult situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-14.ana.ud396e1486	The party of progress shares the view of all the other parties in this, that this is an unsustainable situation. It is not sustainable that children should remain in office for as long as they are in receipt as is the case today. It is clear that something has to be done. Some of the measures have not least been discussed by the rapporteur. It's about processing time, it's about effective returns, it's about, we think, the appeal system itself, which needs to be looked at with new eyes, and not least the entire foreign administration needs to be seen in a new light. But the most important thing that can be done to address these problems is to look at asylum policy itself. In fact, Norway has a very liberal asylum policy. It in itself makes it attractive for people who do not have the right to stay with the institution to apply to Norway and try to stay here, preferably on a financial basis. If we look around a little bit, and not least in our neighboring country, we see that for example. Finland and Denmark have chosen two very different paths in their asylum policy. Finland has gone in a liberalising direction. The influx of asylum seekers has increased. Denmark has been moving in the opposite direction in recent years, tightening up asylum policy. The result has, of course, been a decrease in the number of asylum applications. At least in 2004, Norway had five times as many asylum seekers as Denmark. It says something about the major problem here, namely reducing the number of asylum seekers who are on the wrong footing, without having rights vis-à-vis the institution of asylum, are applying to Norway, i.e. trying to get a false footing. By getting out that part of asylum seekers by having a strict asylum policy, we largely avoid these kinds of problems. The Progress Party has pointed to this for a long time, the Progress Party has the recipe, a much more stringent asylum policy will give us better opportunity to tackle these challenges. Then I'm very happy that the whole committee, minus the Christian People's Party, doesn't want an amnesty. It's going to be like sending the crazy signals, that if you've only been in Norway long enough, you're going to have to stay here, and it's going to be rewarded at the end. At the same time, however, it is a little ominous – and not just a little – that the Council of State, and also a majority of the Committee, want to lower the threshold for asylum for these groups. This means, in practice, that Norway will be even more attractive to seek asylum if there is no good reason to do so. This will mean that we will receive further inflows of asylum applications from people who do not meet the requirements, and that will, in turn, lead to that we will not be able to solve these problems, but rather, on the contrary, make it even worse for ourselves in the long term. The obvious solution, and we have outlined that, is to have a strict but fair asylum policy. We shall maintain and abide by the obligations under the Refugee Convention. It's obvious that we have to take care of the asylum institute, but we have to have clear borders, and we also have to send clear, clear signals to the world around us: Yes, we accept people who are really on the run, but we do not reward people who are trying to move here for other reasons, for wanting to share in and exploit a good and well-functioning economy. The Progress Party shall address its proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-14.ana.ud396e1499	The representative Per-Willy Amundsen has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-14.ana.ud396e1502	Ever since Norway ratified the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child in 1989, the Convention has provided an important basis for the work of our authorities on child policy. But Stortinget chose to tighten up a little in 2003. At that time, the Convention on Human Rights was incorporated into the Act on Human Rights, with effect from 1 October. I think there is every reason to stress that the Children's Convention has a strong position today, and I believe that current practice has taken care of the child's best interests in the individual treatment that the authorities have carried out. Nor was there anything at the annual conference of the UDI that added anything else. The five lots that now agree on this matter argue that the best interests of the child are now to be ‘essential interests’. But in fact, it has always been like this, and the distinction that is now trying to create between parties that are for and against this issue is, in my view, an artificial distinction. It is important to point out that parents have primary responsibility for the children. The starting point, and most importantly, must be to pursue a policy that will allow fewer children to experience coming to Norway alone. It is also an objective to pursue a policy that prevents parents from leaving their children alone in Norwegian asylum centres. It is important that the policies pursued do not reward the parents who refuse to cooperate with the authorities. In this particular area, there is probably a small reason to worry about the political consensus expressed by the majority today, even though, in its letter to the Committee, Bjarne Håkon Hanssen cannot give support to the proposers, because granting a residence permit to this group will signal a reward for those who do not cooperate but endure long enough. We agree with the Council of State's assessment, but we're probably concerned about the pressure and internal disagreement we see in the Government and between government parties. And it's probably no secret that with the Swedish government, the Right believes that there's still going to be a strong pressure in this area. From the Right, we further point out that in the evening post on 31 May, the Council of State stated that, in the context of a new foreign law, he would consider measures to prevent persons with a final refusal from trying to train the case by constantly making new demands for conversion – this in order to reduce the overall waiting time. It is essential to reduce the time of proceedings, and it must actually be stressed. We therefore do not understand that the Council of State in its letter to the Committee signals that the Government will lower the threshold in order to obtain a residence permit upon request for a final decision. We think there's going to be several things to deal with. It is a further liberalisation and, in our opinion, a step in the wrong direction. For the actually unrecoverable asylum seekers, we believe it should be right to grant a residence permit under the Foreign Affairs Act. We would like to clarify that, in line with the signals from the Council of State, the residence permit should be granted to persons who have helped to clarify their identity during the period as asylum seekers, who have helped to obtain the travel documents of the country of origin and who have been willing to cooperate on returns via the IOM. That's the way it has been, and there's really a few people involved. We would also say that two basic prerequisites must be fulfilled before the residence permit under these rules is granted. Firstly, asylum seekers must have shown a willingness to cooperate, and secondly, it is a prerequisite that, in the foreseeable future, it will not be possible to return to their country of origin after the three years. Even today, the Foreign Service can stress that a non-resident is real and, in fact, irreversible. In this sense, a separate regulatory change is not necessary. But for us, there is no big deal, as we believe that the realities are there anyway. That is on the basis that the Right goes in to attach the document to the protocol. Finally, I just want to say that when families with children have been in reception for more than three years, it is clear that something is wrong, and that is not acceptable. But I don't think it's nice for the Workers' Party to blame Erna Solberg. There is also something that says that foreigners have to cooperate with the Norwegian authorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-14.ana.ud396e1533	The matter we are debating today has created a great deal of commitment both inside and outside this house's walls, and it is therefore important that we now give a clear message from the Stortinget that we want to get lasting solutions and protect children's rights. When the Stortingen two years ago dealt with the corresponding case with measures for children who had been in reception for a long time, the then government was asked for two things of a total size: firstly, it was asked for broad political agreement that the refugee recipients should be temporary residents, not least in cases where children are involved. It was therefore pointed out the need for general measures that could reduce the duration of the procedure for asylum seekers, that residence takes place as soon as possible after a residence permit has been granted, that return takes place immediately after rejection, and that the management of foreigners prioritises applications for asylum concerning children. In addition, the government was asked that the families of children who had been in reception for a long time had to have the opportunity to have their matters reviewed. The last part of the Storting's request was met by the Government, but the first part was not taken up and solved. That is why there is some reason why we are dealing with this matter today and have come into a situation similar to two years ago. The difference is that the government has now given clear signals that it will address the issue of treatment during which children are involved. In addition, it is also gratifying now to establish a system that will ensure them as though, for various reasons, ends up with long residence in Norway without a clear case, a new treatment, where it can be argued that children have developed a strong connection with the empire. The fact that this assessment is to be made in the best interests of children and in line with our own assessment of ‘strong human interests’ is also in line with our obligations under the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child. At the same time, it is a joyous day because we also here and now ask the Government for humane treatment of the families with children who are already in Norway and who have been here for a long time without the possibility of returning to their country of origin. They are requested not to return those who have been in Norway for a long time until they are given an opportunity to individually deal with their cases and the possibility of an assessment of a request for conversion. For the SV, it is clear that the result we have achieved is in line with our previous policy in this field, focusing on children's rights and a humane foreign policy. It is also important to look back at the job that has been done by engaged people outside this house, including in particular the organisation SoHo, See us Listen, who already more than two years ago put children's rights in foreign policy on the agenda. In retrospect, they have also received the Firehouse price for their work. We still need vigilance that suits us and the policy we pursue, so that in the future, with the majority of today's consensus, we will respect the rights of children and the obligations we have under the Children's Convention.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-14.ana.ud396e1546	Children shall not grow up on reception facilities. Children shall be given special treatment. A childhood is short and does not come into reprise. As of 1 February 2006, there were 419 children living in reception centres who had established asylum cases more than three years ago, and 204 of them had been definitively rejected. Regardless of the reasons for long stays in reception, the Norwegian authorities have a specific responsibility to ensure children the rights enshrined in Norwegian law, including: through the implementation of the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child. Living with a long-standing unsolved situation affects children and young people strongly. Children in reception are deprived of the opportunity to have a good childhood when the asylum process takes a long time. Their childhood is on hold. They don't know what their future looks like, or what country they're going to live in. It is difficult to provide good schooling and a good follow-up to health problems. Some people find it difficult to live with the many adults who are in a very depressed mental situation. It may also be difficult to relate to friends because they don't know if they have to travel. Recipients shall be temporary residents and shall not be allowed or intended to be residents of a long-term residence for children and parents. However, it turns out that many children and their families remain in reception for several years, even after they have received final rejection of their applications. It is important that we find good and lasting solutions that do not require temporary emergency arrangements. This was the starting point for the Christian People's Party to myself and the representative Jon Lilletun in our promotion of a private bill to provide the families of children as per. has been in Norwegian reception for three years or more, the possibility of having their cases re-examined in detail in view of the granting of a residence permit. This matter has led to a broad and constructive debate, both on general arrangements for the treatment of asylum cases and on special measures for children currently in reception. It is gratifying that the government parties, the Christian People's Party and the Left on the Stortinget have agreed on a new policy for minor asylum seekers. I believe that through the proposed changes, we will not find ourselves in the same situation that hundreds of children have been in an unexplained situation for years. Already during this year new rules are to be put in place. First of all, it should be stated that in assessing strong human considerations, self-treatment based on the best interests of children is to be carried out. The new one is also that ‘residence may be granted if the children have developed a strong connection with the kingdom as a result of long residence’. The requirement for living is not absolute, but there is reason to believe that children will often develop such relationships more quickly than adults. Furthermore, the new rules shall lower the threshold for obtaining a residence permit upon request for the conversion of final decisions in order to allow residence once there are strong human considerations in the handling of UN conversion requests. The government parties, the Christian People's Party and the Left believe that it is reasonable to suspend the execution of forced transmission of children and children's families that can be expected to be retreated under new legislation. The Christian People's Party wanted to go further in relation to the children who are currently in reception by proposing a new, shy treatment for all those who have been sitting for at least three years. In the same way, we are happy with the changes that are coming, as the parties of government, the Christian People's Party and the Left have agreed. We now have a permanent arrangement that takes special care of children. At the same time, we have given important signals that children who have been in the country for a long time today can ask for a new assessment and treatment in accordance with new legislation. This is a policy that takes asylum children seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-14.ana.ud396e1569	Children and young people coming to Norway as asylum seekers, either alone or with adults, are a particularly vulnerable group. They may have lived with a long-standing unexplained situation. It affects children and young people in particular. The reception facilities are also not designed to accommodate children and young people over a very long period of time. It is therefore necessary to put in place measures to reduce the residence time of the receptions. It is most necessary to find good and durable solutions to avoid the need for temporary emergency arrangements. In the last government, temporary emergency regulations were also issued for children and young people in reception of asylum. We would like to stress strongly that it is now important to take permanent action. We therefore look forward to the Government providing measures in addition to the announced regulatory changes. The left is therefore behind the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-14.ana.ud396e1579	Let me start by addressing something that the rapporteur said at the end of his speech, namely that he was pleased that we have come to a principle approach to the question we are facing through the process that has been between the committee and the department. It's a joy that I share. I think it was very important that we just got there. What bothered me about the proposal was that in many ways it was built up under what could at least be called breast-feeding measures. It has been very important for the Government to try to come up with solutions that did not, because I believe that these types of measures and arrangements may seem short-term very tempting, but in many ways in the long term will be devastating to the whole of Norwegian foreign policy. The whole range of Norwegian foreign policy needs to be based on the question of whether or not to stay in Norway should be based primarily on the need for protection. To the extent that there is no basis for protection, there must at least be strong human concern for a stay in Norway, whereas an breastfeeding scheme can very often lead to those who would not have been allowed to stay on the basis of a normal assessment. Very often, the type of arrangements will also appear to be very unfair. We could have had a situation in which a family of children who had been at an asylum reception for three years and a few days, but who really had a weaker basis for stay, than a family who had been there for two years, eleven months and a few weeks, had got it. So there would be coincidences that decided whether to stay or not. At the same time, I also agree with all those who have said in speeches here today that one of the most difficult and most demanding things about foreign policy is to be able to take sufficient account of the basic needs of children. That children through the Children's Convention, which is an international obligation for Norway, but also according to what I would call good Norwegian ethical and moral traditions, should be given special attention in all policies, it is demanding for us, because in the foreign field, we very often see that it is difficult to specify what it means in practice. On the one hand, we will be concerned that children should not be an instrument, that children should not be used by their parents to get a stay in Norway on the wrong basis. We must stress that parents are responsible for the consequences for their children of the choices they make. At the same time, we are aware that, for example: a strong connection with the State is a basis for residence and that it must be justified that children will often develop such ties more quickly than adults. It is, therefore, the government's policy that we want children's ties to the kingdom to be given greater weight than they do today, that is, to adjust the legislation so that children's ties with the kingdom are given greater weight than they do today. It is a principle approach, and it is a challenging work we are now going to do: to concrete the political objective in regulation that makes it appear to be a sensible governance instrument for the foreign authorities to take decisions on individual issues. We are now working on this, first in the ministry by drawing up proposals for consultation. So I think we're all going to lubricate ourselves with the patience of letting that proposal be heard in a proper process. Then we're going to read the hearing opinions we've received, and then we're going to put in place a regulation as soon as possible that adjusts Norwegian foreign policy in this field in line with what the Government wants, and the majority in the UK today joins.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-14.ana.ud396e1592	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-14.ana.ud396e1595	It is not very difficult to see that there is something sympathetic about the proposal made by the Christian People's Party. The problem is, rather, that it is unrealistic, even directly counterproductive in relation to the objective, because by solving the problem here today, only the problems are getting bigger in the long term. I understand that to some extent we agree with the Council of State. We have experience. We can just look around. I referred to the countries around us: in 2004, Denmark had about 1 600 asylum seekers, because they had the strictest asylum policy in the Nordic region. For Sweden's part, the figure was over 23 000 because they have the most liberal asylum policy. Here, of course, this is a very clear context, says the Progress Party. My question to the Council of State is: does he not see the obvious link between how liberal Norwegian asylum policy is practised, on the one hand, and how many people are trying to seek happiness in Norway, on the other hand, and that by taking the steps that are now signalled, the threshold is further lowered and makes it even more attractive to come to Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-14.ana.ud396e1604	What I think is a bit alarming in this post by the representative of the Progress Party is that the only figures he does not refer to in this review are the figures from the trend in influx to Norway, which has thus gone from 17 000 to 18 000 just a few years ago until what we estimate is 5,500 asylum seekers this year. It's not exactly an expression that Norwegian asylum policy has been liberalised in recent years, when we only have one third of the influx we had just a few years ago. There is an important point that the representative is not willing to address, namely that sometimes there is a situation in which child care should be taken, even if it does not necessarily give the outside world a signal that one would like to be as clean and ranked as possible. But one comes to a point where the child’s best interests are to go ahead of other considerations, and that is what this matter is all about.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-14.ana.ud396e1611	In the evening post on 4 April, the Council of State stated that, in the context of a new foreign law, he would consider measures to prevent persons with final rejection of the application from trying to train the case by constantly presenting new requests for conversion. This was to bring down the total waiting time. In the case that we are dealing with here today, the Council of State signals the exact opposite. He will liberalise the legislation on requests for conversion, thus increasing the number of requests and the time taken to deal with them. After all, we all agree on the importance of reducing the length of proceedings. What will the Council of State do in order to have more effective procedures, so that people in question can obtain the necessary clarification as quickly as possible, which will also lead to a better integration policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-14.ana.ud396e1618	Let me first say that the legal state we will have after the Government has made this change, going back to «strong human interests» from «very strong human interests» is the system we had until May 2005. We only have approx. one year had the requirement of «very strong human considerations», while we have had the requirement of «strong human considerations» for a long time. I would say that it has not been a dramatic effect from May 2005 until today, so it is not a big adjustment we are talking about. What I am very concerned about is that we need to assess in the context of the work on new foreign law – we cannot limit the right to change, because it is fundamental, but what is a challenge for us – is the extent to which the desire to transform will lead to their being given suspensive effect, i.e. that expulsion decisions are not implemented while waiting for the treatment of the conversion. I think we have to go into that thoroughly.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-14.ana.ud396e1625	No more words have been asked for a line. Nor has anyone asked for the word on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[Food, see page 2774]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-14.ana.ud396e1643	No one has asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox [[Food, see page 2774]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-14.ana.ud396e1659	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 40 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that there be a replacement of a line of up to five lines with replies by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, it is proposed that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It’s to look at as affirmative.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-14.ana.ud396e1668	Today we handle Document No. 8:44 for 2005-2006 by Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr, Øyvind Korsberg, Kåre Fostervold and Thore A. Nistad, on providing consumers with information on the date of production and freezing of the packaging of foodstuffs, and on improving consumer information on their origin. This case is at the intersection of several committees, and it also has a pretty good impact on the process. The case has been handled by the family and culture committee as a consumer matter, but the position has been heard by the business committee, and it is Sylvia Brustad, Minister of Health and Health, who is responsible for the state council. This setting is highly consistent, with a few exceptions. The entire committee is busy with the issues raised in Document No. The 8th proposal. The Committee agrees with the proposers that we need to take new steps in food labelling. However, when it comes to the labelling of food products, we are largely bound by the label legislation resulting from the EEA Agreement. The Label Directive contains a prohibition of national rules preventing the translation of foodstuffs which comply with the requirements of the Directive. At the same time as we take account of the EU's brand directive, we must be active in promoting Norwegian views in meeting with the EU. Norway has a lot to do when it comes to food security, and it is important that consumer information is also provided in the EU. For this reason, a minority in the Committee on Progress, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left have put forward proposals asking the Government to look at arrangements that take care of the intention in Document No. 8:44 in connection with the development of a new brand profile for Norwegian food production within the EEA legislation. The government, on its side, has announced that it can contribute to the development of voluntary labelling systems by the enterprises or professional organisations themselves. Furthermore, the Council of State has warned that the Ministry, together with the Food Authority, will continue its efforts to try to include rules on labelling with the date of packaging and freezing, as well as copyright marking in the EU label directive under review. The industry itself has shown itself to take food selection seriously. In 2005, work was started to assess better coordination of the agricultural quality system, KSL, and the ‘Good Norwegian’ labelling scheme. The aim of the work is to provide a holistic quality system covering the entire value chain in Norwegian food production. The 2006 agricultural settlement final protocol included: Indicates how this should follow up. A holistic quality system based in today's KSL and experience from the work on the Good Norwegian mark shall be established. The development of a new tag shall take place in close dialogue with tag users and operators. Norwegian authorities have put in place a new system to protect our own special dishes. «Protected terms» is a public label scheme that provides legal protection to names of food products with clear geographical links, distinctive features and tradition. The system is managed by the Food Authority in cooperation with Food Brands. In addition, the ‘Speciality’ label is given to Norwegian-produced food products with special requirements for raw materials, production methods or taste. The scheme includes both innovations and more established traditional products and provides important information to consumers. This is very good. Norway has everything to gain from being offensive when it comes to both consumer information and food security. The selection to evaluate E. coli-saka is now listed. The task of the selection is to map the case and assess the different actors' role understanding and management. The minority in the Committee – the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left – believe it is important that the Stortinget get the opportunity to discuss measures to improve food security in order to get on the offensive. Therefore, we hope that the Government will present a big message about this as soon as possible. I would like to present the proposal of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-14.ana.ud396e1694	The representative of May-Helen Molvær Grimstad has put forward the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-14.ana.ud396e1697	During the winter we've been through, food security has been the focus. We've had more debates in the winter and spring here in Stortinget on the E. coli case, and we've had two statements from the Government on what they'd do with the E. coli case and the bird flu, which would also affect food safety if it broke out. Food safety and labelling are very important. The labelling of food helps to inform consumers, and it helps to maintain consumer confidence in the food they buy. It also provides consumers with useful information on where the food comes from and what process it has been through. These are questions that concern a large number of consumers. In dialogue directly with consumers and through the media, we have received information and many views on this during the winter we have been through. We have learned that there is a lack of labelling of the food we buy. You can also ask yourself, how good is the information that we have today? In our opinion, it is deficient, and it is very cryptic. What information does «Norway 103» provide to each individual consumer? A pack of meat can contain Norway 103 and 104 – and many different numbers. What it shows is that the meat on its way up until the consumer has been through many plants, in particular this applies to Valde, which is a large producer with many plants. I think the individual consumer would have been interested in knowing that the meat you buy might not be as fresh as we like to believe. We should probably know that the meat has been through several plants on its way to the store, and we might also know that the meat has been frozen up to several times before it ends up in the store. We have to do something about this, so that consumers get more information about this and we avoid getting into such a situation as we have been in this winter, where the trust in Norwegian food has been put to the test. Therefore, we need information on both the date of manufacture and the date of freezing. I will come back to this with the origin marking. It may be difficult, as the letter from the Council of State also states, to define when the date of production and the date of freezing is because it is unclear when the final production takes place. This is a long process, but you have to figure out arrangements that show the right date. I think the Council of State in its response to the Committee is very positive. The Council of State must have boasted. I think that she will very much meet the Stortinget and the proposers in the letter, because in the letter the government makes very strong promises that they will work on this issue. Then I see that the Government claims that EU legislation prevents this, and that Norway will have no influence on it. It's worth noting for a no-regier. However, Norway, through its active role as a member of EEA cooperation, must play a role in the EU that we want a strong focus on this and better regulation. Therefore, I think it is important that the Government takes responsibility and is an active driver in relation to the industry, so that we get better labelling, and not least it is important that the Government also uses its ability to influence through the EU system – if we have any influence at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-14.ana.ud396e1719	Powers have an important role to play in providing consumers with adequate information about the products they buy, and in this case we are talking about food. There are no untimely demands from the proposers that we are dealing with here today. A good and adequate labelling of food products is also something that we from the Center Party and the plural are busy with. We agree that it is important to ensure confidence in Norwegian food production. At the same time, however, the same parties which today propose a better labelling of foodstuffs have a strong majority for compulsory cooperation with the European Union through the EEA Agreement. The EEA Agreement limits our freedom of action in a number of areas, including in this area. Labelling and consumer interests must therefore give way to the objective of equal conditions of competition and to priorities made by a majority in this Chamber at an earlier stage. It must be a paradox for proposers with good intentions for Norwegian consumers. We must be able to say that the proposers, the EEA followers, are literally meeting themselves at the refrigerator door this time. But it's done. We are therefore in the situation in which we have to try to influence through the involvement of the European Commission, and the Government wants to try in connection with the revision of the pan-European label legislation. The recordings that the government is sending address the issues that we are discussing here today. At the same time, Norwegian authorities have the possibility to participate in the design of voluntary food labelling schemes, if these labelling schemes do not seek to be anti-competitive in favour of Norwegian goods versus foreign goods. Here the Committee refers to the work carried out under the auspices of, among others. The Ministry of Agriculture and Food, as the case-speaker did well in his statement. Furthermore, it is gratifying that the entire committee is concerned with the work done by the Government in this area. In the light of the circumstances I have made clear when it relates to the limited freedom of trade we also gained in this area when the majority adopted the Norwegian agreement to the EEA Agreement, and with the measures under way by the Government, the majority recommends that the submission be annexed to the Protocol.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-14.ana.ud396e1732	The proposals in the document we are discussing today, I think, are good. That is why, in my letter to the Family and Culture Committee of 15 May, I expressed my initial support for the proposals. At the same time, I wrote that the Norwegian authorities have limited freedom of action in the field of food labelling, because – as several speakers have also mentioned – food labelling legislation has been very much harmonised at EEA level. This means that own Norwegian systems or food labelling rules must adhere to the framework laid down in the EEA legislation. The problem with the minority’s proposed suspension is that the proposal is likely to be difficult to reconcile with Norway’s EEA obligations. The minority correctly proposes that the Government look at schemes under EEA legislation. In my opinion, as we know today, it will still be difficult to obtain the type of arrangements proposed by the minority, without conflict with EEA legislation. But as I wrote to the Family and Culture Committee, this legislation is only likely to allow Norwegian authorities to contribute to the development of voluntary labelling schemes. This applies only if the scheme is not intended to promote the production or placing on the market of Norwegian products at the expense of products originating in other EEA countries. On the other hand, it will be easier for Norwegian authorities to contribute if the scheme is developed for other reasons. Such a reason may, for example: is that one will inform consumers of the quality of a food in order to ensure that the consumer is not misled. The possibility for Norwegian authorities to participate in the design of voluntary food labelling schemes is also likely to depend on whether the scheme is developed on the basis of consumer interests or on the basis of commercial interests. In the minority proposal it may appear that these considerations are mixed slightly, for the minority asks the Government to look at schemes that take account of the intention in Document No. The 8th proposal, which reads: ‘in connection with the development of a new brand profile for Norwegian food production.’ [[...]] This may be problematic in relation to EEA legislation. I would also like to mention that during June I will send a Norwegian hearing response to the European Commission. In this answer, I have input into the Commission's work on revising the pan-European brand code. The Norwegian recording was developed in cooperation with the other food ministers and with the Food Authority. Here we point out that Norway believes that it should be mandatory to label food with the packaging date and the freezing date. We would also recommend that the EEA legislation on labelling of origin be extended to cover more products than is currently the case. We also propose that the labelling of origin should be made compulsory or that pan-European guidelines for voluntary labelling of origin should be established. Thus, the Norwegian authorities are already trying to include rules on labelling with the date of packaging and freezing and labelling of origin in the legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-14.ana.ud396e1752	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-14.ana.ud396e1755	I thank the Council of State for an appropriate presentation. In the configuration, the minority has proposed that the Government return to Stortinget with a big message highlighting these issues. When the government has been as clear and positive as it has been in its response to the committee in this matter, I think it would cost very little for the Government to be able to come back with a message to the Storting that highlights this whole problem, also with regard to the history that we have now had this winter. My question to the Council of State is: what concrete thing is it that the Government does not want to invite the Stortinget to cooperate on food security?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-14.ana.ud396e1764	The government is very interested in cooperating with Stortinget also on food security. When we have not yet answered exactly whether it will be in the form of a message or in any other appropriate way, it is because we now want to see what the external sample has been put down, among other things. to go through the whole E. coli case, etc., comes up with recommendations. But I will not rule out that a message to Stortinget will be the way it can and should be done. So the government has not concluded whether it should be done in a notice or in any other way, but I believe that there is a broad consensus, including between our parties, that food safety is very important, and that it is important that consumers know what they are eating, where it comes from, and that they can be sure that Norwegian food is as safe as possible. Unfortunately, we've seen recently that we can't always guarantee that, and then we have to do everything we can to sharpen ourselves in that area.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-14.ana.ud396e1772	Several have not asked for the word for a line. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight. [[See page 2774]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-14.ana.ud396e1791	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 2774]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-14.ana.ud396e1808	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2775]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-14.ana.ud396e1817	The increase shall now be added to the case No. 1-10.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-14.ana.ud396e1825	In the course of the debate, 16 proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1-3, by Per-Willy Amundsen on behalf of the Party of Advancement, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left proposal No. 4-8, by Per-Willy Amundsen, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, and in particular Mr Amundsen, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party (Christian Democrats). 9, from Bent Höie on behalf of the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left Draft No. 10–16, from Per-Willy Amundsen on behalf of the Progress Party First of all, there is the vote on the motions for resolutions. 10–16, from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-14.ana.ud396e1900	There is a vote on proposal No. 9, from the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the Government of the State budget for 2007 to strengthen the municipal sector through more free financial resources, inter alia, by increasing the municipality’s share of the taxpayer.’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-14.ana.ud396e1915	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 4-8, from the Progress Party and the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-14.ana.ud396e1957	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1-3 from the Party of Advancement, Right, Christian People's Party and Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-14.ana.ud396e2002	During the debate, Ib Thomsen has put forward three proposals on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-14.ana.ud396e2040	President! I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-14.ana.ud396e2047	There were then 63 votes in favour and 42 votes in favour. This is the number of votes in favour.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-14.ana.ud396e2055	During the debate, Mr Starheim put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-14.ana.ud396e2426	During the debate, Per-Willy Amundsen has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document No. 8:69 [[2005-2006]] This proposal will be replaced by the Committee's vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-14.ana.ud396e2467	During the debate May-Helen Molvær Grimstad put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to look at arrangements that fulfill its intention in Document No. 8:44 in the context of the development of a new brand profile for Norwegian food production within the EEA Code.» [[2005-2006]] This proposal will be replaced by the Committee's vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-14.ana.ud396e2493	The vote will take place on behalf of the Party of Presidents of the Council of Ministers of 8 June 2006 from the meeting of Odelstinget, represented by Mr Karin S. Woldseth: ‘The government asks the Government to file a case for a change in laws and regulations so that it becomes up to the individual couple how they will distribute the maternity leave between themselves.’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-14.ana.ud396e2515	There is a vote on the proposal by Mr Anders Anundsen, on behalf of the Progress Party, submitted by Mr Odelstinget's meeting on 8 June 2006: ‘The Government asks the Government to make the necessary proposals for changes to the Training Act which ensure the funding of State-funded unit prices for training in social or medical institutions, as well as in child protection institutions, etc. The rules shall apply equally to private and public institutions.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-14.ana.ud396e2537	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed.
