ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-09.ana.ud1907e29	Honourable co-representatives! Former Prime Minister, President of the Laginget and Depositary Representative of Eastfold Christian People's Party Lars Korvald died night until July 4th, 90 years old. A long and rich life in the service of the country, in the service of the Christian People's Party and in Christian service has ended. Lars Korvald was born on 29 April 1916 in Lower Eiker in Buskerud. He was educated from the agricultural line at the Norwegian Agricultural School. In his professional life he was a teacher at Tomb agricultural school from 1943 and later a principal from 1952. From 1948 to 1952 he worked as Chief Consultant in the Norwegian Agricultural Clubs Landscape, which is now Norwegian 4H. When Lars Korvald was elected to the Stortinget as representative of the Eastfold Christian People's Party in 1961, he had not been politically active before. In his first four years at Stortinget he was a member of the Financial and Customs Committee. For the rest of his time, he was a member of the Foreign and Constitutional Committee. He was a delegate to the United Nations General Assembly and a member of the Norwegian Government's delegation to the Nordic Council. He was also a member of the National Audit Office from 1973 to 1981. Lars Korvald quickly made himself aware of his well-designed posts and his clear positions. He was a well-known and kept a witness at the Indremission before he became a politician, and the speech from the prayer house he took with him to the Stortinget. He is going to listen to us more, was Bent Røiseland's comment after Korvald's first post in the Great Britain's financial debate in the autumn of 1961. Already in 1965 he became the parliamentary leader, a position he had for the rest of his time until 1981. In 1967 he was also elected party leader in the Christian People's Party, a post he held until 1975, and then again from 1977 to 1979. When Trygve Bratteli's government went off after the defeat in the referendum on the EF on 25 September 1972, Lars Korvald was commissioned to form the new government. He thus became the first prime minister of the Christian People's Party, and he was at the head of the first central government after the war. It consisted of the Center Party, the Christian People's Party and the part of the Left which was opposite the EF. With the support of only 38 of the 150 largest representatives, the Korvald government had the narrowest parliamentary basis of the post-war period until then. Many thought that the Korvald government would only be an interlude, almost a business ministry that was supposed to establish a trade agreement with the EC. But it soon turned out that both the government and the government leaders wanted to put their mark on the society the government was going to lead. The long-term programme of the Korvald government was a visionary communication, which put environmental policy on the agenda in a new and offensive way. In 1981, Lars Korvald withdrew from Stortinget after 20 years. That same harvest, he started as a countenance in Eastfold and was in this position until he turned 70. As a pensioner, he returned to the Lower Eiker. He led an active retirement life and was a sought-after speaker in both party and Christian meetings. From 1992 to 1996, he was also a member of the State's Senior Council. As a county he led the public body which looked at the conditions of non-governmental organisations, a matter of which he was concerned. In the light of history, Lars Korvald has been standing as one of the intrusive personalities both in Norwegian politics in general and in the Christian People's Party in particular. Lars Korvald wanted to convey to the next generation the value base that he bred for the Norwegian society to be influenced by. He was a knowledgeable person, and he was a bridge builder. He was sober on his own behalf and managed to disguise the foremost positions of politics because others pushed him forward, not because he himself fought for them. Thus he became a model of serving leadership for the many who were allowed to work with him. Lars Korvald won the hearts of the people and made friends in all camps throughout the country. He enjoyed great respect across party boundaries. A long life in the service of the country, in the service of the Christian People's Party and in Christian service is now over. Former P.A. Gunnar Schaug is dead, 66 years old. Gunnar Skaug represented Eastfold County on the Stortinget for the entire period from 1969 to 2001. From 1973 to 1977 he met as the first alternate. During this period he was also the secretary-general of the Workers' Party's big group. Gunnar Schaug was president of the Odelstings since 1993 until he left Stortinget in the autumn of 2001. During his great period, Gunnar Schaug was a member of seven different trade committees. He was the chairman of three of these committees: the 1990-1992 Control Committee, the 1991-93 Committee on Foreign Affairs and Constitutional Affairs and the 2000- autumn Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs. Gunnar Skaug was a man of cooperation, a man who always said yes to new tasks. He was a man with many friends, not least here at Stortinget among colleagues and employees. He had a smile and a kind word for everyone and was more concerned with communication, negotiations and compromises than with conflict and confrontation. Gunnar Schaug's landmark in politics was loyalty for all years, both to the Workers' Party and to the Home State, Eastfold. One time he has opposed his own party. It was during the dramatic 1988 airport hearing when he voted with the minority to add the airport to Hurum. He was eastfolding his neck and lived in the county all his life, except for the two years of the 1960s when Haakon Lie asked him to take the county secretary's job for the Workers' Party in Finnmark. Gunnar Skaug's civil profession was a journalist. He worked, among others. in Eastfold Posten, Moss Dagblad, Finnmark Dagblad and Fritt Schlag, where he was editor. Gunnar Skaug had a number of trusts both domestically and abroad. Twice he was a delegate to the UN General Assembly. He was a member of the British delegation to the NATO Parliamentary Assembly and represented Norway in the Council of Europe. He was also a member of the KSSE and was among others Head of the Delegation for Relations with the European Parliament. Gunnar Skaug was also active in local politics and was among others. a member of the Moss Presidency for two periods. After leaving Stortinget, he again made himself available for local policy in 2003. When he died, he was a member of the Moss City Council and the head of the Health and Social Committee next to several other local offices. We thank Gunnar Schaug for a long working day for the party and society. We bring peace to the memory of Lars Korvald and Gunnar Schaug. The representatives heard the President's commemorative speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-09.ana.ud1907e86	Representatives Åse Gunhild Woie Duesund, Vidar Bjørnstad, Lise Christoffersen, Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum, Karin S. Woldseth, Bjørn Jacobsen, Øyvind Waksdal and Jorodd Asphjell, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. The representatives Børge Brende, Laila Davay and Gjermund Hagesetter have applied for leave from 9 October to 11 October – all to attend meetings of the EFTA Parliamentary Committees and the EEA Joint Parliamentary Committee in Brussels. Those applications are proposed to be examined without delay and accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The first alternate of the South-Trøndelag County, Linda Cathrine Hofstad, is prevented from meeting in the Stortinge under the representative Børge Brende's leave of absence because of maternity leave. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For the Hordaland County: Georg Indrevik and Toril Selsvold Nyborg For the South-Trundellag County: Michael Momyr
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-09.ana.ud1907e147	Georg Indrevik, Torill Selsvold Nyborg and Michael Momyr are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-09.ana.ud1907e161	There has long been a wish from the party groups for a clearer regulatory framework for the use of the money that Stortinget annually grants to their business. This need has increased as appropriations have increased significantly in recent years. The need for better control and audit has thus also increased. This will ensure greater transparency for the public about how the funds are used. The suspension proposes that the Presidency appoint a joint State-authorised auditor for the audit of all group accounts. The aim is for the audit to be simpler and more consistent. Furthermore, the majority of the Presidency, all except the Vice-President of the Grand Duchy, Carl I. Hagen, has proposed new guidelines for the large-scale groups, which represent largely a codification of current practice. It has been a clearly established premise that the group grant should only be used for large-scale work. This will continue to apply after the proposal, and this fundamental general rule will be clarified through other parts of the guidelines, including: states that the group grant shall be used for the operation of a necessary political and administrative support apparatus for the aggregates as well as for the acquisition of goods and services which the groups consider necessary for the performance of their functions in Stortinget. A result of the same principle is that, as a general rule, the groups shall not be able to transfer funds centrally to the organisation of the batch, even in the form of purchases of services from their own batch. Exemptions are proposed for remuneration and accounting, which can be purchased from own party organisation at normal rates. Section 6 proposes clarification in relation to current practice. Group grants shall not be payable as remuneration or benefits in kind to grossing-up representatives, except for any additional remuneration to the parliamentary director and vice-president. Unacceptable benefits are benefits having the character of fixed schemes. Situational benefits such as: Year-end gifts/events and similar events are not affected. In the view of the majority, it would be unacceptable if the large resources available to the groups were to be used to develop a system of large pay differentials between the representatives and which would be an unwieldy system for the public. In a democracy, it is important that the people always know what the people elected serve, and what additional benefits they have. It is a prerequisite that the system is transparent and indisputable. It continues to be considered that the economies of scale must have a significant degree of freedom to exercise their own discretion in relation to the application of the grants within the framework of the proposed guidelines. Therefore, the statutory auditor is required not to test the discretion of the groups in relation to the use of the group funds within the framework of the guidelines. Finally, I would like to say that our democracy is based on the fact that we have political parties. What we have seen over the years is that non-parliamentary organisations, businesses and the media have significantly increased their capacity to influence. They have built up large investigative devices and advisory units with which the party groups in Stortinget become acquainted each day. It has been necessary for the Storting to meet this challenge. Therefore, a separate investigation section has been set up in Stortinget, and the teams have been given increased resources to strengthen their secretariats. This is a development we all see the need for and greet with joy. Therefore, we have to call about it and make sure that there is no doubt about how the funds are used. With these comments, I recommend that Stortinget join the presidency's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-09.ana.ud1907e187	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-09.ana.ud1907e190	As I understand the President-in-Office of the Council, he believes that it is very important with full transparency about all the benefits received by the representatives of the national Parliament, and that everything that for other groups is taxable benefits, must also apply to all representatives of the public. The proposal for a general rule for the size groups is among other things: justified on this point. Can we then expect that the same principle of transparency of reportable benefits should also apply where there is the Storting paying for additional benefits such as representation, travel, transport, diet, etc.?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-09.ana.ud1907e197	As far as I know, this is the case today. For example, the size as such practises the disclosure law, so that if someone asks for transparency, for example: in a travel bill, it is given, as far as I know. There is another aspect for the party groups, because they are private organisations to which the disclosure law does not apply.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-09.ana.ud1907e202	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-09.ana.ud1907e205	I fully share the wishes and views of the President-in-Office of the Council on the need for closer and clearer guidelines for the disposal of the funds made available by the Stortinge Group. There is no disagreement, on the contrary. I represent a group that from time to time has received criticism because we have exercised a discretion that others disagree with. We have certainly felt the need for more detailed guidelines, in that we feel completely unfairly criticised, and we ourselves in our group of we have exercised a good judgment in every context. But the need for clear and unambiguous rules is strong, so that if you exercise discretion, you get rid of the burden of criticism from others in retrospect. However, we believe that there are several objections to the present draft. So, as the President-in-Office said, it's a continuation of the existing thing, so it's really not a very new thing. That's why we wanted some more time to deal with it. In fact, I think it is an irresponsible procedure. The Presidency asked the administration at its seminar meeting at the beginning of the year to prepare proposals for guidelines. These were first discussed with the group leaders on 15 May, without any written material. Based on the views expressed by the group leaders on 15 May, a draft was presented by the administration on 6 June. It was at the end of the session, and it was in a very hectic period. The following week, a group leader meeting was called in, without any time for group treatment at all. Tuesday 12 June it was a meeting, and the last meeting was held on 13 June at 12 noon. The presidency was supposed to give the suspension the next day. Everything was to be done within 14 days to three weeks, so the guidelines are not to apply until 1 January 2007. Why we couldn't get enough time in the groups to go through this and make recordings, that the Presidency could deal with this in October or November, and with final decision at the end of November, I don't understand. In my opinion, such urgent procedure is not really worthy of Stortinget, and that is also the reason why I take up the proposal in the vote to send the matter back to the Presidency for further review. It is also often the case that when creating a law or guidelines, some comments are linked to the individual paragraphs. It's not done by the majority in this position. I have attached some comments to the individual paragraphs in my particular comment. Let me say that the most important thing is to get clarity. When we really don't get any clearer lines – except at one point, to which I come back – than that the funds are to be used for collapse-related work, and that the groups themselves are to exercise their free judgment – a good judgement, as the president has said several times – it's clear that from group to group there can be a different interpretation of how the funds can be disposed of. It's still possible, if you don't get a pre-control system, for those who see it party-politically opportunistic to criticise another group for what they think is reasonable, to be able to score light and cheap political points at it, as we've already seen quite clear trends. Paragraph 1 is the main paragraph and, in our view, there is a clear need for clearer guidelines. It has also admitted the majority, and they write in their comments that there is likely to be a need for further clarification as matters arise. I am very pleased that draft guidelines state that it is the Presidency that will clarify what is right and what is wrong – not a single member of the Presidency, but the Presidency as a collective body. I hope, therefore, that for the future, we will not be given such suggestions as we have in the world today, where one member of the Presidency assumes the role of determining what is right and what is wrong. We also think that when a group is in doubt – and a group will often be in doubt as to whether something it intends to do can be carried out – it must be expected that the presidency can be asked in advance, so that there is no criticism in retrospect. The Group of the Progressive Party has tried this. A letter was sent to the Presidency on 13 June after we had received public criticism from several members of the Presidency afterwards. It should sometimes be believed that there were more in this assembly who were outstanding tax lawyers when looking at some statements about what is taxable and not taxable, where at least our group thought that we were within the tax law in every respect. The secretary sent a letter to the Presidency on 13 June and explained what our big group had planned to do in some areas. We then received the reply that we had no comments on the plans outlined in the letter. If that was a clarification, we are very grateful for that. But then, of course, the Progress Party Group will not accept any criticism from other groups or from the Presidency when the plans outlined in the letter are implemented. This must be the case, and I think we should have clarified this better in Section 1. Paragraph 3 relates to the situation in which a member of a group leaves the group for some reason and becomes an independent representative. Then you take a part of the group grant. In this way, it is economically profitable for each individual to break with their population at a time when one feels that one has no chance of fame and would like to have a little greater degree of freedom. I'm against it, but I'm not taking up any amendment here, because we have suggested to send this back to the Presidency. When it comes to what you can buy services from your own party and the problems of collaboration between the big group and the party, it's my view that this is going to be too rigorous. There are practical, sensible things in our world that are likely to be partially banned here, and there will be difficult demarcations. To take a simple example: if a parliamentary leader of a party group wants to have one of the best in his total organisation as a «offerer» – as some may call it – and he/she is an employee of the party, but should he/she be with the parliamentary leader, who travels as a parliamentary leader, can the group then pay for the costs associated with the party employee, or will this conflict with the rules? It is a practical example, and there are many such practical examples that are not really covered. Paragraph 5 strikes, for example: determined that the teams shall use the country's travel regulations in their remuneration to representatives travelling. Some groups have had lower rates than the country’s travel regulations. So it's now being banned, and it won't be possible for a big group to decide for themselves what kind of internal travel regulations they want. I think it's an unnecessary override of the groups. Paragraph 6 is the paragraph which sets out obstacles to fixed benefits of a taxable nature. I'm too open. I have no problem saying that there should be publicity about all such things, and preferably by name. A team shall be able to assess and have access to – if there are special circumstances with one or two or three representatives who may have received good offers from others and with much better pay – to provide additional services, not because they are the parliamentary leader or vice-chairman, but may have special competence in an area that appears to be important to the group. You should have a reason for that. There is often competition for capable people, and to say that a big group should not have access to recognition of special competences vis-à-vis non-parliamentary leaders and vice-presidents, I disagree. That there should be transparency about, that name should be given and that the amount of the benefit should be reported, that is quite fine. But that you shouldn't have access to it, I disagree. Finally, I have to mention that the work on these guidelines and the issues raised over the years has been difficult when there are no parallels to the relationship of large-scale groups with large-scale representatives. The size groups are legal units according to normal law, and there is a clear employer/employee relationship with the employees. However, when it comes to paying costs for representatives, there is no employer/employee relationship. According to previous writing – until the provision was made for large-scale work – there were no restrictions or guidelines or interventions on how to spend their money. Nor is it a normal employer/employee relationship in the sense of tax law. In a letter to me dated 21 September 1990, the director of Stortinget also made it clear that there are no restrictions on the use of funds — from that time until we were given the decision on large-scale work — except in some specific areas. Director Brattetoe writes: ‘In addition to the above, however, one assumes that the law cannot be assumed to cover or should include the aggregates.’;» So here there's some significant ambiguities. What is also not known for Stortinget today is the fact that a new law on party financing has been passed. This law, which the Stortinget passed not long ago, states in Section 10 on general principles of public support, Part 4: «The authorities shall not control the disposal of the aid by lots or groups.» How it collides with the fact that the presidency is in a way to control the large-scale groups, which are therefore also covered by this concept – which is clear from the law – is completely undecided. We are in a situation where we have a law that says that the authorities should not exercise control. In this context, you might as well say that the Presidency is the authorities that are supposed to exercise control. So here is a short reply from Stortinget’s office – which in the letter of 1990 said they were not competent in this area – that has its assessment. But it should be lacking that you do not have your assessment and conclusion afterwards, as you have not at all assessed this problem in advance with an open and objective mind. I think it's a bit messy that you have a law that establishes the freedom and rights of elected groups, including the big groups, while getting clearer guidelines. We should have spent some more time on this, so that we might not have new look-ups of the kind that we have in the world today. There are, among other things: Member of the Presidency Inge Wohnung delivered an opinion on the collective health insurance of both employees and representatives of the Progress Party. It was introduced at a time when the Stortinget had just determined that when the employer included specific health insurance for its employees, there should not be a compulsory reporting benefit, and there should not be a taxable benefit on the part of the beneficiary, precisely because the Stortinget considered that collective health insurance schemes that the employer wanted to establish were good human resources policies. The Group of the Party of European Socialists, therefore, also wanted to have a good human resources policy here, and then we meet with criticism and with the fact that we are, as it were, outside a kind of regulatory framework. We believe – if this is now adopted today – that this should be avoided, with the Presidency taking any demarcation decisions. It is also happening in the world today until the end: “The Presidency awaits the Frp Review of the Oslo Equation Office on this.” I assume that it is not that the Presidency here has made a decision without me being aware of it. For me, it is totally unknown that the Presidency is in any way awaiting a job from an Equation Office, which is in any case bound by professional secrecy, including the Presidency. The relationship between the EQU and the taxpayer is a relationship between the two, and no one else has anything to do with it. If that's how to understand that here too you want to involve some kind of presidency to stand above other conditions, I'll take a deep distance from it. Furthermore, as my views showed, it has become too rigorous in the matter of the Party and the Group paying any expenses where there are joint interests between parties and large-scale groups, we will vote in favour of the proposal notified by the Head of Parliament of the Central Party, which is distributed in the seats of the representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-09.ana.ud1907e253	The representative Carl I. Hagen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-09.ana.ud1907e256	The Presidency is presenting today a proposal for guidelines for the use of allocated funds by the mainstreaming groups. The Central Party is not represented in the Presidency. We are very pleased that we have still had the opportunity to discuss the proposal for guidelines and to meet with the Presidency and the parliamentary leaders. We agree with what's going on here, but we suggest a supplement, which I'll be right back to. Let me first just stress that we are some people in and think it is wise that the Presidency is empowered to give additional guidelines. Then the Presidency will at any time have the opportunity to discuss issues that may arise. Then I will direct the search light against Section 4 of the proposal. Paragraph 4 clears the relationship with its own party organisation. As a general rule, it is proposed that no funds should be transferred to the organisation of the lot centrally, nor in the form of purchases of services from the party. But then the third paragraph mentions two exceptions: wage running and accounting. We also found it a matter of priority to consider the fact that several parties and large-scale groups cooperate on what is called Internet services. We therefore allow ourselves to make a proposal to add Internet page services to the exemption that has been proposed here: wage running and accounting. We actually believe that it will save costs, it will be practical and good for parties and big groups to stick to such a rule. Finally, let me say that I have every reason to believe that there will be a broad deal on this proposal in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-09.ana.ud1907e265	The representative Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-09.ana.ud1907e268	SV supports the proposal for guidelines for the party groups and independent representatives as available from the majority. We have also been able to contribute to the development of these guidelines. Then there is a proposal from the Centre Party, where the only difference in the wording of the third paragraph of Section 4 is, as far as I can see, that the word «internet services» is added. We have nothing against that either, so we can support that proposal. Then I have some comments on the post that Carl I. Hagen made. I record that he makes a big point that you have had very little time on this matter. But already in January, 16 and 17 January, when we had a seminar in the Presidency, we had discussions that affected these questions. So we've spent half a year discussing this. There has also been a significant media debate on these issues. And so you chose from the presidency not to finish the case in June, so it's been over the summer. You might define the concept of summer vacations differently in the different parties, but there have been a number of months here where you've had a lot of opportunity to explain the matter, and we're going to make a decision today. In conjunction with other matters, we have probably spent as much time on this matter as we did on the health reform when I was on the social committee. When you talk about spending even more time, I see it as a rewrite because you really don't want these kinds of guidelines. I have to say that look up to the reactions that former government council Victor D. Norman just got from the Progress Party and Carl I. Hagen, I think it's almost alarming how far Carl I. Hagen is going to signal that he wants the most ambiguity about this kind of guidelines, so that you can essentially continue just like before. I think it's okay that you get clarification, and Carl I. Hagen's posts make it clear why there's a need for clarification. It is quite clear that to the extent that there are loopholes here, you will seek to find out those loopholes and take advantage of them. That's the way it is, and it might still be. But at least SV appreciates that we get clear driving rules here.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-09.ana.ud1907e282	The left will also support the proposal as it exists today. Our basic input to this is that we believe that full publicity gives you the necessary transparency, and you also have the official control you need. The left has a simple principle here; the disposals we do stand for, and we stand for them in the public debate as well. That's why we've been practicing full publicity in our accounts. Although we are voting in favour of this legislation today and are going to deal with it, we assume that we are allowed to practise the more publicity principle and are allowed to have full transparency related to this. I must also make a comment on the Vice-President of the Commission today. It's clear that you can make a code here that will seal all holes, but I think that if you're willing to handle your priorities in the public debate as well, it might have been the best regulation of all. If more time is claimed in relation to the process the Presidency has set up, I understand party representatives in Hawaii shirts in front of the staging building this summer when they believe that no meeting at the Stortinget means summer vacation. Otherwise, I think it should be done something clearly in relation to the way we produce accounting reports, because the accounting reports of any institution should be so clear that it is possible to see which priorities have actually been put into practice with regard to the use of the money. Maybe we should have clearer accounting reports, so that you avoid such speculations about what the money has been spent on, which you have today. Finally, I just want to say that in the Left, we also want to support the proposal of the Centre Party. I think it is a clarification that is important to do also in order to improve our democracy, namely the interconnection that is possible in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-09.ana.ud1907e297	After Carl I. Hagen's posts, I have to clarify some things, so that it doesn't stand up as invincible problems what he said. For example, he believed that according to Section 5, where it says that one should travel at the State's rates, it would not be lawful for the party groups to pay lower rates. This paragraph I think we have to read antithetically, you shouldn't be able to pay higher rates than what the state has. But if you want to pay lower rates in a party group, of course, I don't think the Presidency will complain about it. But they may claim the rates of the state. So it's not invincible problems what Carl I. Hagen here points to. For example, if a wholesaler is out and traveling and is going to have his trip paid by the wholesaler, while there is then someone from the party office, such as the so-called carrier, it is also not difficult to know who is going to pay. It is so simple that the pool will then have to pay for the relevant deposit representative. It is not an invincible problem that the party office pays for those from the party office. So essentially it's that simple. I feel that these are constructed problems, which have nothing to do with the regulation. I think that is quite clear what has been presented here. When Carl I. Hagen says it's a continuation of the existing, I also need a clarification of it. Yes, it is a continuation of what I and many others have thought was existing, namely that this money was to be used for large-scale work. However, when we have seen that this money has been used for purposes other than large-scale work, we need to clarify the legislation. That's what I said in my post. Then it's absolutely necessary to also say something about what Carl I. Hagen said about it being possible to pay extra benefits. It is really an important principle, at least for me, whether you should have the opportunity to pay additional benefits to individual representatives if, for example, they are. has received good offers elsewhere in society. If you were to go into such a principle, where are we? Well, then we'll be in a situation where people in this room have a lot of different rewards based on what offer they've received from some business or organization where you have high pay. We could get millions of dollars in pay differentials if you were to apply such a principle. At least I don't want that, and not the majority of Britain's presidency. I believe that we should have equal payment for equal work. Then we have some additional benefits that are related to the Stortinget job. But we can't have a situation where people don't know who makes what, and who can make what in a year because they've got an offer from someone outside the main hall. It is a basic principle that we are paid by Stortinget, not by Kjell Inge Smoke or others who make an offer. People must know what we serve at all times. It must be transparent and irrefutable. Since doubts have been raised about how this relates to the law of the parties, it is also important that this is said from this pulpit now. Carl I. Hagen referred to the fourth paragraph of Section 10 of the Act of the Parties, which says: «The authorities shall not control the disposal of the aid by lots or groups.» But it's also a third paragraph of Section 10, which says: ‘In support of the State, municipality or county council, conditions which may conflict with the independence and independence of the political parties shall not be imposed.’ This paragraph must also be interpreted antithetically, that is, it points out that there is no question of the independence of the parties. Of course, there are other conditions that do not cast doubt on the independence of the parties. This was also reflected in the public investigation on the basis of which the legal proceedings were based, where it states: «Conditions which do not conflict with the parties' claim to independence and independence from public authorities shall not be subject to the prohibition.» Of course, this is the basis for the design of Section 10, both the fourth and the third paragraphs. I think it would be totally unsustainable if we were to have the principleal view that the only instance in our society that can't be controlled by anyone is the party groups. But, of course, the verification is to be carried out in such a way that it does not affect the independence of the parties, and that is the basis of the guidelines that have been drawn up here and of the audit system that we have proposed.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-09.ana.ud1907e326	First, to a comment from my good colleague in the presidency, Olav Gunnar Ballo, who thought that what I said about urgency was not right. I think this is a little bit of a misunderstanding. There have been several discussions of certain principles, but what I have criticized is that the first written letter given to the members of the Presidency, we got on 6 June. Before that we said that we were waiting for the draft guidelines. So it came on June 6th. It was submitted to the group leaders on Monday 12 June. So they didn't have much time, because they should also have time for group management. It was six days later. The Presidency had the meeting with the group leaders on Wednesday 14 June, and it was held on 15 June. From 6 June to 14 June, there are eight days — after the guidelines were in place. When Olav Gunnar Ballo refers to the health reform, you had the whole thing in that period. It is clear that a matter will be dealt with before it is put to the vote. It is not so easy to persuade other size groups to change their perception after the setting has been set. And that's what was meant to be. Why did the setting have to be processed so quickly when it could be processed now? It shows Olav Gunnar Ballo's own contribution, for he has now announced that he will vote in favour of the proposal of the Central Party. But this wasn't a new issue. In fact, this was one of the issues at the Presidency meeting where the suspension was made, because the minutes of the group leader’s meeting on 14 June say that, in the event that there is agreement and known, for example, to the parliamentary leader and, where appropriate, to the Vice-Chairman, the exemption must be provided. It was proposed from Sponheim to include parliamentary Vice President in Section 6 and to include in Section 7, first paragraph, the purpose of publication of relevant transparency, as well as to include in Section 4 that web services can be purchased from their own party organisation. It was up at that group leader's meeting, and yet Olav Gunnar Ballo has not supported it in the presidency's position. I've taken a completely different attitude and announced that we wanted a greater degree of liberality. So if it's the case that this time has caused several of the members of the Presidency and their respective parties to change their opinions and support the proposal of the Central Party, I think it's unusually pleasant. This would have been avoided if you had had better time in the presidency before you gave a position. Then I want to clear up some of the misunderstandings that have arisen because I may have expressed myself unclearly so that the Grandfather has misunderstood me. There's no disagreement between us about the need to know. I made it very clear in my post that in terms of possible benefits, e.g. We have therefore accepted additional wages for the parliamentary leader and Vice-President. It is no longer a principle of equal pay for equal work, for it has already been broken by accepting that parliamentary leaders and Vice-Presidents should be able to have additional allowances. That principle has already been accepted. We've said that if a group comes to realize that there are other things they want to focus on, then they need to have access to additional benefits, but with full publication. So it has nothing to do with this ‘must know’. We're going to have it in public. That's what I said in my first post that I'm in, and that was the main reason for the big business president when he disagreed. For the Workers' Party, and now also for the Progress Party, it is not a problem to have the party pay for party employees with the parliamentary leader on a large-scale group mission. For smaller parties, it may be a problem that you might have money in the big group, but have very little in your party. That's why you choose not to bring people from the party office, because there's going to be a strain on the lot office. The parliamentary leader is therefore acting on the grounds of: the batch size is worse than others in the same situation, and I think that's wrong. So Jagland mentions this that you get offers from others. I mentioned a theoretical problem. My point was – and now also Jagland stresses that there should be independence for the groups – that it is not independence when people are deprived of instruments of great importance in human resources policy. There is no one in this room, I think, who disagrees with me that there are differences between different magnification representatives both in knowledge, in interests, and in skill. A large group may be deprived of the opportunity — this independence — to say for itself: we believe that this and that it is important for our group. Other groups do something else, they have to be allowed to do what they want to do. We've never dreamed of criticizing any other population for how it chooses to use its resources and its crews. They must be allowed to choose that for themselves. It is this self-determination and independence of the individual size group that we believe goes too far in limiting, when, in addition, you don't have guidelines that, at least in our opinion, are good enough. But they're better than nothing. They are a step in the right direction, and we will see if we can later make proposals for changes. It's clear that they're a step in the right direction, but they're not as clarifying as we hoped they would be, and we think we might have helped if the Storting had spent more than eight days deciding after the first proposal of written guidelines existed.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-09.ana.ud1907e342	I have to say I'm quite surprised at how far Carl I. Hagen is going in making the Stortinget, Parliament, almost to a private enterprise where you are going to have recruitment criteria and remuneration on an individual basis, almost as if people had nothing to say at all, and that it's the parties as private companies that are going to reward the individual. He's talking about the individual's skill. Had we been aware that he went so far, we should have been clearer – at least I would have been – on how deep and fundamental a disagreement we are in such a way of thinking. Because there is also an element of lack of respect for democracy in it. That means that in many ways you are not particularly concerned that those sitting here in this room are sitting here for four years and then have to be tested against the population in relation to whether they should continue, because there are others, including through a payroll system, who have to assess their skills. Otherwise to the concrete proposal of the Central Party: I perceive that the process that has been in the Presidency has been a good process. All parliamentary leaders have been called in, and in essence I perceive that the recordings made by parliamentary leaders have been taken into account. Then there is one term that the presidency has chosen not to include, that it should also be able to include the purchase of Internet services. SV has agreed that this should have been included, but has also been concerned that if it is that some party groups have objections to it, it is a point to get guidelines that embrace as far as possible. It has been impossible, and it is understood that after this debate today, to get with the Progress Party on those guidelines. But at least it's been possible to gather the others. When you just went through a process that Carl I. Hagen says hasn't happened, you've been able to figure it out, why in the world do you have to go against it? That proves the opposite of what Carl I says. There has been enough time here to look at the guidelines and, where appropriate, to promote amendments. And not enough to promote that amendment, which can even be put into practice. So everything that comes out here makes it clear that here there has been plenty of time and opportunities to get good guidelines, which we will also get today when we adopt them.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-09.ana.ud1907e351	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-09.ana.ud1907e359	Then Stortinget will go to voting in case no. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-09.ana.ud1907e367	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Carl I. Hagen, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, No. 2, by the representative Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa The proposal of the Progress Party is included on page 4 of the vote, while the proposal of the representative Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa has been distributed in the Chamber. There is a vote on proposal No. 1 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Until. S. No 241 shall be returned to the Presidency with a request for a review of the fundamental issue of a regulation restricting the right of the aggregates themselves to dispose of the allocated funds.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-09.ana.ud1907e393	It is then votered over the adjustment I, § 1 to § 4, first and second paragraphs. The Presidency had cancelled:
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-09.ana.ud1907e467	There is an alternative proposal from the representative of Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Section 4 paragraph 3 shall be replaced by the following: except for remuneration, accounting and website services that can be purchased from their own party organisation at regular rates. The amount of the fee shall be specified in its own note in the accounts report to the Presidency.’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-09.ana.ud1907e543	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed.
