ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-16.ana.ud534e54	The representative, Gunn Berit Gärde, will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-16.ana.ud534e57	On behalf of the representatives Odd Einar Dørum, Gunvald Ludvigsen, Gunnar Kvassheim and myself, I am delighted to present a proposal to establish a compensation scheme for Norwegian war sailors who were imprisoned in Africa during the Second World War.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-16.ana.ud534e62	The representative Bent Höie will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-16.ana.ud534e65	On behalf of the representatives of Erna Solberg, Inge Wohnning, Martin Engeset and myself, I would like to propose a competence plan to recruit more qualified workers for the care sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-16.ana.ud534e70	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-16.ana.ud534e82	The vast majority of people who have lived have been poor. For example, when Jesus died at the age of 33, there was no unusual age to die in Palestine at that time, and the Virgin Mary, according to the historians, was 13 years old when she was born, which was an average age for the firstborn at that time. The new thing is not that there are many poor people in the world. The new thing is, for the first time in history, we have an opportunity to eliminate poverty in the world. We can do this if we want. In North America and Europe, absolute poverty has largely disappeared. In Asia, it's going forward with storm cliffs. We are the first generation in human history to eliminate poverty. Even in Africa, it's moving forward, albeit not as fast as in other parts of the world. We have the opportunity to achieve the UN's Millennium Goals to eradicate poverty, or at least to reduce it to half as early as 2015. We know what's needed. Strong countries are needed to regulate the economy and distribute revenue wisely, an open and market-based economy is needed, a huge investment in education is needed, and the resources of humanity need to be mobilised. This is a recipe that has worked, and it has worked in many places. When Kennedy in the 1960s said that the United States was going to put a man on the moon, and mobilized the American resources to achieve this goal, it didn't go many years before the target was reached. When, during the Cold War, the two superpowers of the United States and the Soviet Union mobilized almost all their resources in the gigantic East-West confrontation, there was no limit to what could be achieved by resource mobilisation. We are the first generation that can achieve the goal of eradicating poverty. It's not impossible. If we don't, it's because we don't want enough, not because we can't. Norway’s starting point for contributing to this is also good. We are now able to live in the world's best countries on most indices. We are said to have the most well-functioning and successful state, according to Today's Business and Foreign Policy Magazine. Oil money flows into a gigantic scale, and there is broad consensus in this room on important aspects of development policy. We have strong voluntary organisations, an active trade union movement, and strong pressure from many church communities. In short, we have very many of the assumptions that are needed to make a special contribution. What I want to do in this presentation is to explain some of the new initiatives that the Government will take, but it is absolutely certain that in many areas there is broad consensus in the Storting, and also in the acceptance that the Bondevik government did a lot of good in this area. To point out one particular thing, it was that the Christian People's Party contributed to the Right joining the broad inter-political alliance for a high level of assistance. That's what the Christian People's Party is going to have credit for, but also right to get involved. It ensures a much larger width in connection with this in the years ahead. There are two reasons why we need to take a force for international development. One is solidarity. All major world religions and almost all major directions of thought say in one way or another that what you want others to do to you, that's what you're going to do to them. We want to be rich, with good health and education, so we must help others to be. Development policy is also an important part of the new security policy. To secure Norway cannot be done as it could once be done, in 1718 at Fredriksten or during the cold war at Border Jakobsselv. Ensuring Norway today is securing Norway against threats that almost certainly originate in other parts of the world. If we are committed to combating international terrorism, yes, we must help to combat it in Palestine and Sudan. Bin Laden was in Sudan almost throughout the 1990s, for example. If we want to prevent drugs from destroying our youth just a few quarters away from here, yes, we have to do something with the roots of that drug, whether it's in Afghanistan or Colombia. If we want to take care of our environment for the next generation in Norway, yes, we need to take care of the rain forests in Congo, Indonesia or Brazil. Evolution creates less mind in the world, less humility and less violence. This is also why developments on all continents make the world safer, including for our children and grandchildren in Norway. Development is a broad historical process, it is not an appropriate measure, and it is not aid – at least not aid alone. That is why we will present a proposal for a public inquiry, where we will look at all aspects of Norwegian development policy, all aspects of Norway's relations with the Third World, and where we will see policies and business as a whole. We must include trade, transport, energy, agriculture and culture – all the forms of influence we have on the rest of the world. One important aspect – not the only one – of our relationship with the Third World is trade policy. The Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of Agriculture have done what they can to make the forthcoming WTO round a real development round, with developing countries' interests at the centre. Development can never be public effort alone, even if it is. Development is largely private investment, as we have seen that private investment has contributed to the rapid progress of Korea, India and China. Therefore, Norwegian companies’ involvement in developing countries is both positive and important, although, of course, it is not good for each single investment. But that we invest more is something we want to launch and develop. It is not the public sector, but the private sector in the form of informal and formal sectors that, overall, can create all the jobs needed in developing countries. An area where it is natural to look at Norwegian preference is within hydroelectric development. We built our entire industrial journey in Norway from Sam Eyde's days on hydropower. We certainly have unique expertise in Norway in terms of hydropower, and we want to make the expertise available to countries that need to invest in hydropower. Without energy, there will be no development anywhere in the world. Although assistance is not the only thing we should do, and perhaps not even the most important thing we have to do, we have to do more and better. The target of 1 pst. GDP for aid remains constant. But Norway should not be some kind of Mini-FN. By that I mean that we're not going to do anything in all areas of life. In many areas, we have to recognize that something is important, and that it's important that it is done, but maybe others can do it as well or better than us. It's e.g. clearly that hospitals are needed in the third world country. But it is not obvious that Norway can build hospitals better than the United Kingdom and Germany, or for that part of Japan and China, can. Maybe we recognize that this is important, but that someone else can do it, while it knows, for example, that. power development is more natural to look at the Norwegian advantages. In short, we need to focus on what we're best at, which isn't necessarily the same thing as what's most important. There's a lot that's important where we're not the best, but let's focus on what we can do best. I have drawn up four areas, which I will come back to, where I believe Norway can be the best. We also have to adapt the map to the terrain. Palestine and Afghanistan have long received more assistance than most of the countries called our main co-operation countries. Sudan is now, in effect, Norway's second largest foreign involvement when we add together what we give in state aid, what non-governmental organisations do, and especially if we get a Norwegian contribution to a United Nations force. Sudan is neither a main co-operation country nor a co-operation country! We have to adapt the map to the terrain. I will come back to the Stortinget, probably in the context of the budget, with proposals for better governance in this area. Then I also want to clean up all the measurement numbers that we have for Norwegian development assistance. Let me explain why by way of an example: See that Norway is setting out on a project for women entrepreneurs with an ecological profile in agriculture – in Zambia. This project will then be listed as business support, innovative assistance, environmental assistance, women-oriented assistance, Africa-aid, and probably in a number of other ways. So that's the same number that we're just going to count up once again. It's kind of a math exercise, which just makes sense on paper and not out there in reality. That's why I think we need to find other means of governance that focus on making the most possible, and not on finding ways to give the most that we can count up in as many ways as possible or in the most creative way. Here again, I will come back in connection with the budget with proposals for better management tools. I have defined four areas where I believe Norway either has or can have international advantage. It is in the case of oil and energy and hydropower – energy in general. It's about peace and reconciliation. It is in the case of women's issues and in the case of the environment. I want to concentrate efforts in these areas, even if we are going to do something about others – but we also need to recognise that we can leave some other questions to other countries. Some in the room would have noticed that the Financial Times last week had an article about Norway's efforts in providing advice on oil and energy issues internationally. In the energy field, we don't have to be modest. We can proudly go out into the world and say that hardly any other country in the world has managed to organise its oil sector in such a successful way, with so little – but there is – corruption, with such a good mix of public and private activities, with such good management systems through an oil directorate and in other ways, and with such openness. At least this is something the rest of the world thinks about Norway. At a meeting with the head of the World Bank, Mr. Wolfowitz, who is not necessarily all in this room happy in all areas of life, was asked which countries have managed to organise their petroleum sector successfully. He said that there is only one – there is no more – and that is Norway. And although of course it's excessive and flattering for us, we don't have to be afraid to say that here we have a special competence, and it's in demand. That is why we have launched a cooperation project between the Ministry of Oil and Energy, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Environment to look at how we can make Norwegian knowledge in these areas available to developing countries. Many developing countries with large natural resources are poorer than their neighbouring countries, not richer. East Timor has been a sort of pilot area, where advice has been given on the establishment of an oil fund, and also advice on how to strengthen their negotiating position in relation to their large, strong neighbours Australia and others. This oil fund is called ‘Norway +’. The real purpose of the Government’s ‘Olje for Development’ programme — which was launched by the Bondevik government, just to have said it — is to provide advice to ensure that every drop of oil or gas that comes up is traded in school buildings, roads and health purposes, and does not divert on private bank accounts or in other ways that hamper development. This is an area where we can give a lot of good advice and competence, and there is a great interest in cooperation with Norway in this area. Norway has a special peace exposure. By that I do not mean to say that Norway is a more peaceful nation than others, but Norway has built up a competence in conflict resolution – we have not always succeeded, but we have built up a competence – which many countries see through active participation in many peace processes in a way that is unique to such a small country as Norway. This is closely linked to development, but it is not possible to create development anywhere without peace. If someone comes tomorrow and shouts the business you're about to set up, no one is creating a business, and if someone burns down your school tomorrow, no one is building a school. So development depends on peace, but the opposite is equally true: without development it is much, much harder to create peace. To create a broad middle class that has an interest in taking care of society and bringing it on, is one of the surest guarantees against war. That is why we will continue to strengthen our involvement in Sri Lanka, in Sudan and elsewhere where Norway is involved in peace processes in some sense. But I've talked about this so many times, even in the Storting, that I'm not going to pay attention to this today. I just want to add that in order to drive effective development, there must also be close cooperation between the development side and the military side in some conflicts. Sudan is a good example of this. Without a United Nations force in Darfur, it's almost impossible to imagine driving emergency aid and development there and strengthening the AMIS force that's already there; you need security to be able to drive development in Darfur. On the other hand, developments will contribute to greater security in Darfur. That is why we want to see the humanitarian, the developmental and the military in the context, but of course without forgetting that there are differences in roles that it must also be held on to. So I just want to say that the development in Palestine is very worrying, and the development in Sri Lanka, for which you know I have a special heart for, is just to laugh at. In both places, the parties only see what the other party can do – not what they themselves can do. And both parties reciprocate violence with violence in a consistent spiral, which ends like this, as Martin Luther King once said: Eye to eye leaves all the blind. The question of women and gender equality is the third of the four areas in which I believe Norway has a special advantage. By the end of 2006, we will launch an action plan for women’s and gender-based development cooperation. The review of the old strategy – we had this up in Stortinget not long ago, thanks to an interpellation by the representative Ågot Valle – shows that there is still a lot to be done in getting the gender perspective into all aspects of development cooperation. Here's a situation where it's not a either-or. It may not be that either the gender perspective is going through all the assistance or we need to have specific women-sighted measures in the development process – yes, thank you, both. We will require Norwegian partners, whether governments or international institutions or non-governmental organisations, to show that they take women and equality issues seriously. If they do not, there must be long-term consequences for cooperation. We will also try to see if some of the projects or programmes in which Norway is involved can help to identify gender differences rather than eliminate or reduce such gender differences. We contribute to international reporting, so that we can look at whether the programmes and projects we run have the real, positive impact on the relationship between the sexes that we want. Let me also tell you about when I visited Liberia a few months ago. As you know, Liberia has got the first popularly elected female president in Africa – a very impressive figure, Ellen Johnson-Sirleaf. She had a very concrete starting point for what women's struggle means in her country. It was, to say it cautiously, not high-flying slogans, it was something very concrete. She said, "Please help us create an effective and uncorrupt police force." For without a police force capable of protecting the lives and health of women and children, it is free for any man in Liberia to commit the rape he may wish. Without this very basic security in the very most private of everyday life, it is, of course, almost impossible to imagine how to develop. This is why Norway has also said that we will help to create our own reception units for women and children at the Liberian police stations, and we are ready to support the UN and others in the training programme for a new Liberian police force. Ellen Johnson-Sirleaf has also been an inspiration to the work of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on a separate action plan for the implementation of Security Council Resolution 1325 on Women, Peace and Security. She was one of the mothers of that resolution. The fourth area of activity is the environment. I think we should recognise that in the three other areas, energy, peace and reconciliation and women's issues, we have an undisputed role in the world. Almost everyone will recognize that we are one of the countries that has come the farthest. When it comes to the environment, it's not as safe. But at least it's an area where we have the opportunity to regain our role as a central environmental country. There is no doubt that there is a close link between poor living conditions and national and global environmental conditions. Norway will therefore work to increase the capacity and competence of the cooperating countries in the environment and sustainable development. Major areas are biodiversity, water resource management, energy, climate and chemicals. These environmental trends will also be important for what we will go into in terms of supporting business. Businesses must also have a leading role in their environmental exposure when, for example: must invest in poor countries. A new action plan has just been presented by the Ministry. It will be a broad consultation on it. A hearing shall be held with Norwegian non-governmental organisations already on Thursday. Since there is so much in that action plan, although there is no formal large-scale document, I will not say more about the environment in this context, but I am witnessing a broad public debate on this environmental action plan. So, of course, even if we're going to bet a lot on these four areas, energy, peace and reconciliation, the environment and women's aid, that doesn't mean we're going to wind up what's going on in other areas. We must continue to invest in research and education, in agriculture and in fisheries. Fish and fish farming are areas where Norway is the world leader. We will give our full support to the important work done by the Prime Minister, by having a very strong personal commitment to Norway's contribution to global leadership in order for the UN to reach its Millennium Goal No. 4 to reduce child mortality by two thirds by 2015. An important means of achieving that goal is the global vaccine alliance, GAVI, on which we have also invested more than in the past. Through such efforts, we will help to signal that all the Millennium Goals can actually be achieved if we want to. The government has from the first day on focused on the need to strengthen the UN. This is because no other organisation has the international legitimacy of the United Nations. The UN is the only organisation that meets the whole spectrum of challenges, from poverty and epidemics to terrorism and weapons of mass destruction. It is the only institution that can be heard by all the states of the world. It is the only institution that can globally ensure that it is not just the strongest law that applies. Perhaps the most important task of the United Nations is to be a global set of norms. The UN is also going to run development programmes, but without the UN setting standards for what is acceptable, and what is not acceptable internationally, we have no global standards. The UN is unique, but of course far from perfect. Only the Member States can clean up the UN. It concerns any physical refurbishment of the UN building or refurbishment of the UN as an institution. The UN is what the Member States do – no more, but no less. The UN needs to be renewed if we believe that the organisation should do what we want it to do. I am therefore very pleased that the Prime Minister has been given such a central role as to lead the UN reform panel on the environment, development and humanitarian action. It gives Norway, and especially him, a very special opportunity to influence the further development of the United Nations. Norway has been a driver in the creation of a Peace Building Fund and a UN Peace Building Commission. We've been drivers and one of the first contributors to the UN Emergency Fund. This emergency aid fund should not do everything in every crisis, but it should ensure that on the day of a crisis, you have money so that you can do something right away – the first day of an earthquake, the second day of a flood. Once a war situation really gets desperate, the fund should be able to go in. So you have to gradually mobilise larger resources from all over the world. Norway is also a driving force for the UN to become more cohesive, more than one organisation. We want the UN at country level to have one budget, one management, one programme. The various special organisations shall be in place, but they shall not operate in each country, let us say Malawi or Botswana, 10–15–20 different programmes and activities – it shall be merged into one single UN effort. As part of the increased UN effort, we want to increase our military participation in UN operations, especially in Africa. Here, as you know, Storting's agreement is planned for the possibility of any Norwegian effort in a force in Darfur. This then shows our will to bear part of the burdens. It will also strengthen our influence in the important reform work of the UN. In the United Nations, Norway is not a small pit. We are the seventh largest contributor to the United Nations activity in total. I spoke with the head of UNICEF here during the day and was told that Norway is the second largest contributor to UNICEF. Of course, if we are a major contributor, we also have the right to make demands and assert our influence. We'll do that. We have written letters to most of the major UN organisations that receive a lot of Norwegian support and offered long-term support. We have also told them what they can expect to get in 2007, in 2008 and 2009, consenting to the Storting in these years. It gives these organisations a completely different opportunity to plan. In the same letter, we have also made it clear that organisations that oppose reform, which do not want to build on values we think are important, for example on women's issues, or organisations that refuse to cooperate with other UN organisations, cannot count on increased Norwegian support. Worst of all, they have to expect us to cut the support for them. We want to use both carrots and whips to contribute to the necessary reform work in the United Nations. We will also be a critical partner to the World Bank. We support, for example, the democratisation of multilateral financial institutions. the amendments to the voting rights rules of the International Monetary Fund. We want transparency around the role of Norway, both in the World Bank and in the Monetary Fund. We have now taken the initiative of a forum where the voluntary organisations can meet the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and I believe the Ministry of Finance as well, for a direct dialogue on Norwegian policy in relation to the World Bank and the Money Fund. There is a lot of positive happening in the World Bank, especially in terms of what is said. The World Bank now emphasises social equality in a way that is a revolution compared to the World Bank's attitude in the 1980s and early 1990s. What Norway wants to do is to ensure what is said about social equality as a basis for economic growth — not just to have growth first and then benefits. No, if you don't have social equality, it'll inhibit growth, because it's a small part of the population that participates in the growth and gets used to its creations. This is the World Bank's perspective now. We want to ensure that this not only becomes words on paper, but is also translated into practical results in the World Bank's country-level programmes. We are concerned that there is no requirement for privatisation in the event of debt cancellation and the payment of loans where privatisation is something a country itself wants. In that case, Norway’s business is not as small as Norway’s business if nationalisation is something a country itself wants. This is something that the countries themselves need to assess. But what we distance ourselves from is when, on an ideological basis, the international financial institutions are pushing a country for privatisation that the country itself does not want. And if we were to discover examples of this, we would react. Here I believe the truth is that the policy, even in institutions as large as the World Bank and the Money Fund, is often up to individuals in each country. But that's what we want to test. On 1 July Norway shall take over the Nordic-Baltic Board of Directors of the World Bank. Although there must of course be consultations with the other countries, it gives Norway a much greater opportunity to influence than we normally had. This government wants to be bold in development policy. We'll try to dry more, venture more and be a country that says from there other tens. That means we have to deal with unpopular questions. An example of this is international work on HIV and AIDS. AIDS is about sex, about blood, about prostitution and about syringes. Often wishful thinking and misunderstandings have contributed to the spread of the epidemic more than it needed to do. Helping uncontroversial groups is popular. Many people are concerned with the infection from mother to child. And honour them for that, there's nothing wrong with it, there's also a very important question about HIV and AIDS. Many are also concerned with children who are orphans because their parents are dead from AIDS. That too is an important question. However, groups such as sex workers and injecting drug users also need to be identified because otherwise we will not be able to combat the epidemic. Condoms and clean syringes are important instruments to combat AIDS. Because of their ease of transmission of infection, women make up an increasing proportion of the infected. The ability of women to protect themselves and their lives is therefore essential for the international fight against HIV and AIDS. If we're going to change the world, it's always been my starting point -- I ignore maybe a few years in youth -- that we have to change and improve the world that actually exists, not a world that doesn't exist. And in the world that exists, we have to assume what is the reality. Homophili, no matter what some may think or wish, has probably come to be. You have to dare to talk about it. It is quite unlikely that sexual abstinence can be the main instrument in the fight against HIV and AIDS internationally. I wind up whether the individual chooses abstinence — or an active sexual life — but if you focus on this, the risk of actually contributing to more people's premature death is great. This is why Norway wants to talk in a different way. I've noticed that this is an area where many in the Storing, and especially many women, have a very strong commitment, and it only gives the Government further strength to stand on in this area. We also want to take clear positions on women's right to safe, self-determined abortion. I think this is something that you should be able to support no matter what moral position you have on the abortion question. The fact that so many tens of thousands of women die as a result of meaningless abortions using the old knitting stick method or what it might be and the fact that hundreds of thousands of women are mutilated for life as a result of the same is something that I think everyone is concerned about, regardless of the position in the abortion question itself. In the Soria Moria Declaration, we have committed ourselves to working internationally to decriminalise abortion, but I want the widest possible support for taking international initiatives to ensure safe abortion. We have signaled that we will support the Global Fund for Safe Abortion, established by the International Family Planning Organisation IPPF. This is a British initiative that we support, and the purpose of this fund is to provide support for actions that have lost funds due to anti-absorptions in other countries. Human rights are, of course, a part of the areas in which Norway should speak clearly and clearly. Then I am pleased with the direct invitation I received from Erna Solberg in a TV interview, to put corruption more clearly on the agenda. Corruption is a plague and a plague for those who want to build strong states. Very well-known are no examples of countries that have really managed to get out of poverty and into real development without a strong and well-functioning state — although this does not mean that corruption disappears altogether. Corruption is devastating. Corruption means demoralization for state and business. Corruption means misinvestment and the use of resources in the economy in an efficient way. And corruption means that those who are going to give — the Norwegian people, whether it's for non-governmental organisations or above the tax bill — do not feel confident enough that the money will come out correctly. So if we are to maintain sufficient support for this in Norway and contribute to good development in countries, the fight against corruption must be central. I want to fight corruption after a three-part strategy. The first is that there should be absolute zero tolerance for corruption in all Norwegian aid activities and in all international activities supported by Norway. Should we discover cases of corruption within this, we will hit it hard and resolutely. There won't be a horse. We will report it wherever it is possible to find a place to report it — if it should be Norway, to the authorities of Norway, and if it should be in another country, to the authorities of that country. Secondly, we will help our countries of cooperation to combat the corruption that exists in these countries. It may mean providing support for the development of national audits, support for more transparency in finance departments. It may involve support to Transparency International or other non-governmental organisations fighting corruption. And perhaps most important of all, support for free media. In most countries, there is no safer way to combat corruption than to have daily media that put this on the agenda without deterring whether it is those in opposition or those in position who are corrupt. In other words, zero corruption in own activities, aid to countries that will combat corruption and international efforts to combat corruption. The World Bank and the various development banks have put this on the agenda in a positive way that we want to support, and also within the UN and other global organisations. We have concluded an agreement with the World Bank on the establishment of a fund for the promotion of good governance, where anti-corruption is important. It is a UN Convention against Corruption which entered into force in December 2005, the first global agreement to combat corruption. This is sent to Stortinget, and we hope that it can be ratified if not for too long. Such a global agreement will set a global standard of anti-corruption that will make it easier for anyone who wants to do so. In almost every country where there is corruption, there will be forces that want to combat this which we need to support, and forces that depend on continuing and maintaining that corruption, which then must not receive our support. When I read Nelson Mandela's autobiography, it was a story that made a strong impression on me. He says that just after he got out of prison on Robben Island, after a total of 27 years as a prisoner, it was well, he got up on a plane – I think it was Ethiopia Airlines – and saw that one of the pilots was black. Then Nelson Mandela himself thought: Can black people really fly a plane? When I say this, is it because no Chinese would ever think of it? Can a Chineseman fly a plane? And no European would think – can a white man really fly a plane? It says something about the lack of self-confidence on the African continent when even Nelson Mandela – of all people – spontaneously comes up with this idea. Now, of course, Nelson Mandela quickly calmed down in confidence that black people could fly a plane. But history shows that Africa lacks self-confidence, because Africa feels that they have been put on the side of a development in which all other continents participate in a completely different way. Therefore, Africa will always be most important in Norwegian development policy, because it is where it is most important to do so. Fortunately, it's not like everything goes wrong in Africa, as you sometimes get the impression from the media. Africa now has an average of 5 pst. economic growth per capita years – yes, it's not always well enough distributed, but it's a start. 5 pst. economic growth is better than Africa has been in a very, very long time, but it is far too little to re-enter East Asia, North America or Europe. There are more democracies in Africa than ever. It's fewer warriors. And through the African Union and other regional organisations, there is a completely different commitment to weaving Africa together. It was a pleasure to meet the head of the African Union, Konaré, when he was in Oslo last week – I think some of the representatives might have met him too. Konaré took an entire perspective on an Africa that is integrated. There are major projects that weave the countries together, trade across Africa and not just unilaterally between Africa and the outside world – a new vision for Africa, which deserves our support, and which provides a basis for optimism. While the main effort remains in Africa, we will also do more in Latin America. It's a left wind over the Latin American continent. Latin America was a traditional country where very small elites, often in an exchange between a capitalist business elite and a military elite, exchanged power in the countries, but it was in any case kept within a very small circle. Latin America is now opening up. Elites based on professional movements, indigenous peoples, in popular organisations — often in church organizations — enter power positions in countries by country, and want to do something different than the elitist power structure previously desired. Latin America is not going to become the main field of action for Norwegian development policy, but I want to come back to the Stortinget with proposals for a significantly stronger bet in Latin America, because this wind of hope that is now celebrating over Latin America must not be allowed to disappoint. And we have a lot to contribute, for example. Our experience in our Nordic welfare model, which many people are looking at with great interest, or our way of controlling natural resources and using natural resources for the good of the people, which many are also interested in. At the same time, we should recognize that Latin America has a long tradition of populism, both right-wing populism and left-wing populism, which has not always been so easy to distinguish. By populism, I mean short-term measures where the rulers do what they serve politically right now, without laying the foundation for long-term development. And we're going to be on guard against such a development. A working group in the Ministry has been set up to draw up a set of recommendations on further Norwegian cooperation with Latin America. I plan to travel to South America at the end of June to explore these issues, and of course I will come back to the Storting with this. In addition to Africa and Latin America, of course, we will continue our cooperation with some countries in Asia. But what happens in Asia now, however, is that Asia recovers its rightful place in the world. In all historical epochs, up to approx. In 1700, China was the most advanced place on the globe, no matter how you measure it. It was the richest, the largest population in a dense area, the best military, the richest emperors and kings, the largest cities, the most developed agricultural systems – there's no way to measure it – the most advanced technology. Many of the inventions that we say are made in Europe, like Gutenberg's book printing, have been done in China long, long before, for example. So what you're about to see now is a recovery of the normal situation, that Asia is at least as advanced as Europe and North America. This will, of course, take time, but there are new, important developments going on. China and India are recipients of development efforts, yes, but they are also increasingly suppliers of it. China is what you talk about all over Africa now, and even in Latin America. China enters as an investor, and also as an aid provider, in many African countries. This has good and bad sides, but at least it requires close dialogue with China about this, so that we don't do things that work against each other, but on the contrary, look at how we can do things that contribute to development in – let's say – Angola or Sudan. Asian countries will therefore continue to be cooperating countries in terms of assistance, conflict resolution, etc., but they will also become increasingly cooperating countries in the sense that we are working with them in, for example, African countries. We've sent a very, very clear instruction to all of our embassies that they have to stop working with the British, Swedish, Danish, Dutch and all of our traditions to cooperate with. They have to start looking at how we can work with Japan and China and other countries that we don't have the same historical tradition of cooperating with, because it's the new world. And the fact that China and India, Brazil and South Africa are increasingly taking a leadership in the world is not something we're going to look at with concern, but what we're going to be looking at primarily on the basis of hope. This is an axis of hope in a world that needs change. I'm going to approach a conclusion -- I know I've been talking for a long time. Norway will continue to be at the international front to alleviate the debt burden of poor countries, both by contributing to improved international debt relief mechanisms and by reducing developing countries’ debt to Norway. In these days, we consider a possible unilateral Norwegian cancellation of debt from developing countries, including debts arising from the Norwegian shipping campaign in 1976. This was up in a question-time question from Jon Lilletun a short time ago. The G8 debt-reduction initiative from last summer has become a global initiative and responsibility following decisions by the governing bodies of the World Bank, the Monetary Fund and the African Bank, and the Government will come back with its own contribution to this initiative in the current session. And then we're going to work to make countries that get debt-free, not borrow again. It is an important area where, for example: cooperation with China will be put on the agenda, so China will not enter countries based on completely different analyses from Norway in terms of debt sustainability. We will follow up the Soria Moria declaration on illegitimate debt, but – once again – fully aware that illegitimate debt is not a simple concept. For example, at what point did it happen? illegitimate to borrow money from Robert Mugabe – at first a liberating hero, then a common dictator and now one of Africa's most brutal dictators? No one can point to the exact time when loans to Zimbabwe under Robert Mugabe were illegitimate. I'm not saying this because we're not going to work against illegitimate debt, but to say that it's not easy to draw exactly the limits. That is why we have ordered two international studies on illegitimate debt, one from the World Bank and one from the UN at UNCTAD. Then migration is a matter that deserves more attention from our side. The sum of transfers of funds from immigrants and relatives in the West or people working in the Gulf is far, far greater than the total international assistance. In a number of countries, these transfers of funds are the most sovereign source of foreign currency. In some countries it is between 10 and 20 pst. of gross domestic product. This applies, for example: in countries like Nepal, Jamaica and El Salvador, but many, many others too. Sri Lanka, as I know well, is another country where this is a large source of income. Throughout the Indian subcontinent, houses on houses are built as a result of the cash flows from immigrants in the West and the Gulf. In 2004, according to the UN figures, 500 billion NOK were transferred in international aid, while transfers from relatives abroad alone amounted to 850 billion kroner. Many of this money goes to land with poor banking systems. That means that those who transfer them have gigantic transfer costs. In many cases 15-20 pst are required. the amount of the transfer of money itself. These are things we want to look at. There is a United Nations Summit on Migration in New York in September, where I will attend, perhaps also the Minister of Labour and Inclusion and possibly others, and where we will look at all aspects of development and migration. Let me just briefly mention someone: Is it possible to ensure that less of the money goes to intermediaries and that more of the money actually goes to the countries to which people want to transfer money? Is it possible to imagine that more of the money sent home, e.g. through public "gold roots" or through the aid system, could ensure that more of the money sent home. from Pakistan or Somalis in Norway, could be used for development purposes, for the construction of schools, for example, or for road construction, and not just – although it is good enough – for private investment in these countries? Not that we can force someone into a particular form of transfer, of course not. However, one can imagine systems where, in alliance with immigrant organisations, we look at ways to ensure that more money could go to, for example. And can we ensure that more of the competences of immigrants in the West, who are difficult, can benefit the countries of origin in some sense? We want to engage in dialogue with the immigrant organisations about this. We have initiated an investigation into this in the ministry. I don't have a fasitant response to this right now, but it's an important topic that we want to look at. And if we look at what happened after the earthquake in Pakistan, I feel like we got to put this very, very clear where it belongs. No one was more eager to raise money for Pakistan than the Pakistani environment in Norway. No one did more to make it happen. Dialogue with Norwegian authorities and traditional relief organisations, which may not have had the strongest relationship with the immigrant environment, would do much, much easier, for example. Pakistani immigrants felt confident that if they gave the money to the Red Cross or to that part of the Church's emergency aid, it was the right way to do it, instead of starting a whole lot of new, own things. Migration is coming more and more as a central theme of development policy, and without prioritizing anything, at least there is something we want to look at much more. We are also dedicated to providing enough resources for development. We consider new and untraditional forms of funding. Norway has therefore supported the UK initiative on a new funding scheme for vaccines in developing countries, and we support the French initiative to introduce a solidarity levy on air traffic. The money from this will be used to obtain cheaper medicines for developing countries. In 14 days, I will be participating in the international launch of this French initiative, first in New York and later in Paris. It will be with Brazil, Chile and France. Until several countries join, we will use parts of the already existing CO2 tax on aviation fuels for development purposes. At the same time, we will work actively internationally, and especially through the leadership we are now given in the pilot group in this area, to get more people involved in the French system, so that there can be an international agreement – in that case the first international agreement on safe international financing through a tax regime for development purposes. The last topic I'm going to touch on, and perhaps the most controversial, is the series of hunger disasters that we've seen in Africa lately. Kjell Magne Bondevik is the UN Special Envoy in this area on the Horn of Africa, but we have seen famines in both western and southern Africa. Emergency aid is necessary and emergency aid can be alleviated. But emergency aid does not address the underlying causes of these famines. These could be war and conflict, as in Somalia or Sudan. There may be poor governance, as in Zimbabwe, or there may be peripheral effects of the HIV/AIDS epidemic in many places in Africa by simply not being there to do so. But no matter which of these things it is, it points to an important relationship, and it is that emergency aid is necessary, but the policy is most important. I want to put a critical searchlight on why some countries — and these countries are almost only in Africa — have one such famine after another, while other countries, often at the same level of development, do not suffer from starvation. I believe that many famines are due to a lack of political influence. Those affected are politically marginalised groups, often away from the capital, often groups to which the rulers feel no immediate connection, often groups to which the rulers do not need the votes to secure their basis of power. Today's crisis on the Horn of Africa is, for example, To a large extent — not just, but to a large extent — a crisis for nomads, and very many of those affected are ethnic Somalis. In some cases, hunger is even a political weapon for the rulers of specific groups. We've seen that before, both in Ethiopia and in Sudan, if we go back a few years. As Bertolt Brecht once said, hunger does not occur, hunger is organized by the grain merchants. Of course, when the disaster is a fact, we have to put up with it – no doubt about it. But at the same time, we have to make it clear to the leaders of the country that it is they who are responsible for all the inhabitants of the country getting the food they need. This is about making those responsible, and it's about international justice. Nowhere in the world are politically influential groups starving to bed. It's just the marginalized ones. The problem is many places of distribution — there is food in the country, but it is not distributed to the right groups — and transport, one does not have the ability to move food from where it is in abundance, to those who do not. We will address this problem and ask the necessary questions. This is a direct follow-up to the right to food and the right to own food production, which is an important international human right. Let me mention two very central questions that it is necessary to ask. One is: do we do enough to press politically responsible leaders in a country to ensure that even marginalised groups in this country get the food aid they need, or are spending the money to secure power and influence for people closer to the capital, who are more important politically? And a question that comes to the West with full weight: are we sufficiently concerned about sustainable local development, or do the West often flood relief organizations, often in the best interests, the local markets with so much cheap grain that the incentives for local farmers to invest in their agriculture, to build up a long-term production they can live on, become so small that what was done in the best interests of helping, helps to make it much more difficult to feed the population in the longer term? I have taken the initiative to carefully review these questions, without having the fasitant answers on them. I have highlighted in this statement areas where Norway can really make a difference in combating poverty in the world, energy, peace and reconciliation, women's issues and the environment, and also tried to bring forward new features in the development picture – starvation disasters, which we need to look at in a new way, migration, the emergence of Latin America and the recovery of Asia's traditional place in the world. But no matter what we look at, the new or the old, one thing remains, and that's that we humans are dependent on each other. A world that is not good to live in for everyone is in the long run not good to live in for anyone. We should be able as a nation to make Edward Kennedy's words from the brother Robert's funeral to ours. Edward Kennedy said: "My brother saw wrong and tried to fix it.My brother saw suffering and tried to relieve it.My brother saw war and tried to stop it." We can do all of this if we want – if we want enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-16.ana.ud534e266	The President will now propose that the Minister for Development’s policy statement be discussed at a later meeting. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-16.ana.ud534e280	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each Party and up to 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is proposed that those who sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-16.ana.ud534e289	The proposal by the staging representatives Jan Tore Sanner, Petter Løvik, Svein Flätten, Kari Lise Holmberg and Peter Skovholt Gitmark to strengthen the employee's ability to co-ownership in his own company is twofold. One is that the Stortinget asks the Government, at the latest in the context of the 2007 State Budget, to provide a broad assessment of measures that can help more employees become co-owners in their own enterprise. It is also requested to focus on international experience with its own programmes that stimulate the purchase of shares in its own enterprise. This is supported by the Advance Party, Right of course, Left and Christian People's Party. The second proposal is that the Stortinget asks the Government of the State Budget for 2007 to propose increasing the tax-free discount on the purchase of shares by employees in its own company. This is supported by the Progress Party, the Right and the Left. The Christian People's Party is, as I understand it, not negative to it, but will assess this in connection with the 2007 state budget. The right-wing proposers point out in their proposal that there are many advantages and positive effects of facilitating employee participation in their own business. The background to the proposal is inter alia: First of all, the principle. It is important that all participants in society have the opportunity to influence their own lives. If the employees are co-owners of their own business, it will naturally help to further participate in the economic life of the enterprises and to understand the importance of them. Secondly, state dominance in business is unfortunate. It can create monopolies and concentration of power that are both economically inefficient and allow for undesirable use of power. Thirdly, it turns out that today the state owns 36 pst. of the values of Oslo Exchange. Individuals only own 5 pst. of the values of Oslo Exchange. For comparison, the following factors are considered: 20 pst. of the values of the Stockholm Stock Exchange owned by individuals. When we are informed at the same time that 26 000 shareholders have disappeared from Oslo Stock Exchange in the last two years, despite the fact that the return has been around 40 p.m. annually, something should be done. Because it's a cross of thought that the Nordics are the second worst stock savers in the world. In a letter from the Minister of Finance, it appears that the Council of State sees no need for a broad review of this. The issue is, as most people probably remember, also discussed here in the Questionnaire, where the Council of State repeated this. As the rapporteur on this matter, I have considered how this works in other countries. By reading the proposal, it is also clear that the proposers refer to how it has been done in other countries. Employee participation schemes in their own businesses are growing across the EU. At the same time, it has been completely normal and for a long time common in countries such as the United Kingdom. U.S.A. Experience from countries with co-ownership arrangements shows that this results in, among others: increased productivity. Studies show that productivity increases by 20-33 pst. where employees have shares in their own company. It increases competitiveness. It provides pay flexibility, attenuated wage growth, increased innovation, increased loyalty, better team spirit among employees, increased motivation. It strengthens creativity, and it gives more jobs. This is precisely because the European Commission wants more use of employee ownership schemes in its own enterprise. The Financial Committee has had a hearing on this matter in which we received oral views from the NHO and the Confederation of Enterprises in addition to written opinions. In addition, the Financial Committee has received a comprehensive written opinion on the issue from ICT-Norway. The interesting thing in this regard is that all the hearing bodies have expressed their support for the proposal. No organisation has expressed dissatisfaction or disagreement with the proposal. There is reason to believe that both employers and employees will appreciate the introduction of measures to increase employee participation in their own enterprise. We are today in the situation that we see that industrial enterprises after industrial enterprises have either dropped or are threatened with closure. In this respect, I find it strange that the majority of the Financial Committee, consisting of the Labour Party, the Socialist Left and the Central Party, are opposed to this proposal. The interesting thing is that there are politicians on the left and the trade unions in the rest of Europe who are working to make employees co-owners The majority of the committee proposes that the proposals be annexed to the protocol, but I assume that the right will re-examine the proposals. [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-16.ana.ud534e326	The President recalls that the representatives must stay within the speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-16.ana.ud534e329	Let me first make it clear that the Workers' Party is initially not against participation in companies, but that we think we have a working market that works well today. When a file is read Document No. The 8 proposal and the reason for it, you probably feel like there are some other motives behind it than what it's argued for. That is why I thought I would go through the conspiracy of arguments contained in the document. The proposers refer to the United States as the United States. Yes, let's look up a little bit and look at how most people have it in the dream community of the Right, the United States. They have few trade unions, they have a very low level of worker protection, they have legal labour rights, they have local wage negotiations instead of nationwide collective agreements, they have a large low-wage sector with precarious jobs without career opportunities with many part-time workers and temporary workers. Furthermore, they have no popular fear, no statutory entitlement to sick pay, no binding collective agreements. The minimum salary is $5. So that's the society that the proposers use as an example in their argument, and that they want the Biggest to control. ‘On a fundamental basis, it is important that all participants in society have the opportunity to influence their own lives through different systems of representation and democracy.’ This is what the proposers write in the document. So it's a completely new twist from the Right Party, which was initially opposed to parliamentaryism in 1884, which every time we in this Chamber have had questions about the democratization of working life, has voted against workers getting rights that we have thought were important and that have led to the society that we have today. Then they show that the state is a large owner of the values of Oslo Stock Exchange. Yes, we are. But that means, for example, that right wants to take Statoil away from the stock exchange? This will result in a lower proportion of ownership in the country. They also refer to Sweden that the state in Sweden has such small holdings on the stock exchange. Yes, is there so much better in Sweden than it does in Norway? I think we should be grateful for the decisions that have been taken, which ensure Norway with the income that we have today, through the industrial policy and concessions that have actually been given in this country. That is why there is a situation in which I actually suspect the proposers to have only one purpose in this proposal, namely to give some tax credits – ‘some’ are mainly people in the labour market who have established themselves and who have an economy that allows them to buy shares – even if the Right was involved in a tax settlement in this room where they said that they should have the best possible similarity between employees and capital. So now they're working to erode the tax base they've been on, probably by having some populist ideas about stealing the dress of the Progress Party. The Minister of Finance, in his letter to the Committee, gave an excellent answer. She has given a good reason without painting the situation black-and-white. The Minister of Finance therefore believes that today's system is good enough. Isn't that great? Isn't it nice that we don't have to care about all things – when you first talk about political governance? I am proud of that answer and fully agree with it. We're on our way together to Soria Moria! [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-16.ana.ud534e347	When you listen to the previous speech, you get the impression that the Promised Land, Soria Moria, belongs more in the 1930s, in the last century, than in 2006 and the years ahead. This is an important thing, and from the right we see this just as the first stage, because we recognize that the red-green parts are now turning the thumb down. But I'm convinced that we're going to win the next round. This is about the spread of power. It's about private ownership. It's about self-ownership democracy. It's about innovation and growth in business. It's about a modern working life and motivated employees. Right is concerned with the spread of power. For us, it's as bad when power is concentrated on a few private hands, as when power is concentrated on the hands of the state. We're busy spreading power and getting a balanced ownership. The challenges in Norway today are primarily that there is an imbalance in ownership by having a dominant state and a weak private ownership. Right wants to strengthen private ownership, and we want to have more partners in business. If you compare Norway with other Nordic and European countries, you can see that there are far fewer people in Norway who spend their own money to invest in businesses and jobs. We consider this proposal to be one of several means of achieving a greater understanding of saving through shares and investing in businesses and jobs. The right is also concerned with self-ownership democracy. That's why in our time we were concerned that people should be able to own their own home. Now we are also concerned that more people should be able to become partners in their own company. I record that the representative of Klungland in an interview with NA24 said that it is something completely new that the Right is engaged in co-ownership in companies, but it was actually the Willoch government that introduced tax incentives in 1984 to allow more employees to become partners in their own company. In other words, we are concerned that people should have greater participation in economic life, and that being a partner in their own business also increases their influence on the company's economic life. And it's a paradox that the parties that are most at the barricades when businesses are sold abroad or moved out are perhaps against the means that will be the most effective bouncy against emigration: that the employees themselves are in and own, that the employees are in and out of control, and that the employees themselves have the opportunity to influence such a decision. We are also concerned about innovation and growth in business. It is, as other speakers have pointed out, through international studies that where employees are part of and own, there is also a greater value creation. And that's not so strange, because when you strengthen the motivation, when you strengthen the creativity and the layer spirit in the workplace, you also facilitate increased value creation. This strengthens both business and value creation. We are concerned with the modern working life and motivation of employees. It's not like the representative of Klungland says, that there are only some well-established high-income groups that will be able to benefit from this. In fact, there are many traditional companies that use this, including, for example: Road cover, which has become the largest compared to the fact that the employees are partners in the company. And that's not just about the director, it's about all employees in the business. The main point on the right is that we want broad programmes that allow more people to become partners in their own company. We are entering a working life where the means of production are more knowledge of the individual's head, and there is also a need for new instruments to enable the company to link employees. So finally, it's a big paradox that it's SV that's most opposed to this. I have the impression that it's an expression of an old-fashioned thinking. You don't like the concept of shares. But if the employees are to be part of the company and own the company, they also have to own shares. I see that the Council of State in a Question Time says that other means should be used. But what other means are we talking about than by law taking power from others who own the company? This is old-fashioned thinking, and I think it's a thought that stands for fall. The right-hand proposal has its own future, and I am absolutely convinced that we are going to have an impact on more employees being able and encouraged to become co-owners in their own company.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-16.ana.ud534e377	I want to start by saying that SV is for employees to have influence over their own business, and we have two different approaches to this. One is democratic. It is quite simply that we believe that workers working in an enterprise should have influence over how the enterprise is managed and how the enterprise develops, simply because we believe that contributing to its labour force in production is a very strong contribution and crucial to the success of an enterprise, and we therefore believe that it should also follow democratic rights. Our second approach is that we see that workers have an influence on how the company operates, have a positive impact on what kind of results this company achieves in competition with other companies, and on how this company manages to develop further in the future. So representatives from the Right promote a proposal that has one main element, which is primarily about providing more tax relief, because it contributes to more private ownership and more employee ownership. Then we find reason to ask two questions to the Right-wing representatives. One is that it is striking how tax proposals of this nature come about right after the budget has been adopted and where a similar proposal on tax relief has not been tabled by the Right. We see now, and we see it in a similar proposal we're going to discuss later today, how you're very generous in distributing tax credits that you're not willing to put into your own alternative budgets. But don't do that. The second angle of incidence to the right is that this is an instrument that has worked so well that now we just have to do even more of it. If we look at Norwegian society today and look at employee shareholdings, I can't see that the tool that Willoch introduced has led to employees becoming significantly more co-owners and significantly more influence on the companies, as it is today. I believe, on the contrary, that we see that some of the effect of this has been that options and shareholdership have been distributed to the people who have the most money in the companies, and that, as a result, a tax distribution of this money has led to the arrival of the people with the highest wages, directors and other high wages, mostly for the benefit of, first and foremost, as the Minister of Finance also writes in his letter. I would like to take the representative from the Right, Jan Tore Sanner, seriously in relation to the debate on employee ownership. The book to which it is referred in Monday morning, written by Corey Rosen, ‘Equity’ – which is about ownership – has three important premises that this should work with employees’ ownership. One is that the ownership of employees is significant. The second is that you have to develop a culture of ownership. And the third is that you have to organize the entire company in a way that makes the employees have an influence on all processes in the companies. This is the assumption. i.e. flat structure — significant influence. Remember, this is a model that we've practiced in Norway, just in a different way from what the Right adds up to. We have practised this in Norway by ensuring employee involvement in governments, in processes, in ownership, through labour law, through shareholder laws and other laws. So in these areas, the right in very many contexts has been opposed to the left hand side of Norway. This has been voted down. At the latest, in the context of the Working Environment Act, where employees’ representatives’ influence on the organisation of working time – the use of overtime and that kind of thing – was stepped down. Despite the fact that this is central to the success of a employee strategy, the Right believes that with the model we have chosen in Norway, there has been the opposite of ensuring employee involvement in their own reality. We therefore believe that what will be central is to look at instruments other than fiscal instruments, because we have no faith that the fiscal instruments will have the effects that Jan Tore Sanner and the other proposers want. So there the government has announced that we want to review the cooperative law. We have strengthened the rights of employees in occupational health and safety legislation, and we believe that it is necessary to look at how other countries organise in other types of companies than limited liability companies, for example. look at Italy and Spain, where the representation and ownership of employees in the enterprise is ensured.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-16.ana.ud534e394	The rapporteur has explained the matter as such, but it was a little refreshing to hear the comments of the representative Klungland on everything from the birth of parliamentarians to 2006. I was a little uncertain as to whether it was anti-Americanism or the anti-Right that was his greatest motivation on the road to Soria Moria. But it was at least a strong post, and I must say that he does not at least take the right in the best sense when the Right has promoted this proposal. On the other hand, we are going to do that on the part of the Christian People's Party, and we are going to vote for the first part of the proposal, asking for a broad assessment. So there's an ‘assessment’, and it's probably not quite certain that it just has to mean an increase in the tax rebate; it could also mean other means of strengthening employees' participation in their own businesses. When we read the answer from the Minister of Finance, I guess we get the impression that there in the farm you would prefer to delete everything called stock discounts, if that were possible. It is strong when it is written that «share and option remuneration may have negative aspects of long-term value creation», that it can cause management and employees to change the motivation to work in the enterprise by looking for short-term profit, and that it can also ‘contribute to financial instability and increase the risk premium in the share market’. I think these are strong words, and it should certainly have made an assessment before you are as clear in the conclusion as you are in the letter sent to the Committee. So I really want to hear from the representatives of the Workers' Party and the SV if they're going to cancel the tax rebate that exists in today's system. This at least indicates both the rhetoric and the setting that you should really want to. There are fine words that employers should be more democratic and that a democratic working life also ensures long-term profitability. It may have something to do with it, but it is not a very concrete response to the challenges facing Norwegian business, namely to ensure that we have a more innovative and dynamic development than has been the case in recent years, not least when we compare with other countries. Although the representative of Klungland did not have much good to say about the United States, we do not expect that the company in that country is strong, and that it helps the country to have a dynamic economy that many countries look forward to, even though one may not have the same ideological background as the representative of Klungland. We support proposal No. 1st@item: inlistbox On the concrete issue of increasing the tax-free rebate, we come back to it in the budget. There I can agree that Holmås has a point, that some of us may be better off making suggestions that we have not previously promoted. But there is probably something the representative Holmås will very much recognize in, I would think.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-16.ana.ud534e409	There are many positive relationships associated with employee participation. It is, as many have been concerned, a question of the distribution of power between the employees and those who have capital. It is a matter of stimulating greater responsibility and interest among those working in the company. It is a matter of stimulating longer-term thinking, because employees are in many cases more closely linked to businesses than an increasingly volatile, short-term financial asset. So the center part sees a lot of positive relationships because employees are also owners of their own business. Yes, because the centre party has a ownership where the individual owns his own means of production, as a very beneficial form of ownership in many industries, i.e. we take ownership completely out. What is then interesting to discuss in connection with this is something far more than tax. In Norway, we have a long tradition of co-ownership through collective forms of ownership. We have ownership through settlements and cooperatives, forms of ownership that have proven to be beneficial and to tolerate changing and new times. It's forms of ownership that matter to the Center Party. Unfortunately, both history and debate have recently shown that the proposers have little to do with ownership related to housing or cooperatives. For the Centre Party, ownership by individual enterprises is very good ownership for several industries, as mentioned above. So here it's not about co-ownership, it's about ownership. It is a paradox that in the last tax reform, the framework conditions for business activities organised with limited financial responsibilities, such as limited liability companies, were stimulated in relation to business activities carried out with unlimited financial responsibility, such as individual enterprises. Today, it is the case that individual enterprises that keep profits in the enterprise in order to develop it to deal with future demands, under current tax rules, proposed by the former Minister of Finance of the Right, Per-Kristian Foss, have to pay more taxes on their income than shareholders, where the limited liability companies retain the profits of the enterprise. These are framework conditions for which there is a great need to change if one is to realise some of the intention contained in the proposals of the proposers, but then in a completely different and less important area, in the view of the Centre Party. There is currently a certain tax-free discount on the purchase by individuals of shares in their own company. Proposalers want more of a share tax rebate. The centre party prioritizes, as one understands, not this model, but wants to correct the tax imbalance between individual enterprises versus limited liability companies, and also to a greater extent facilitates ownership where people can jointly own businesses and activities, such as housing law and cooperative activities. When we do that, it's because experience shows that this is a long-term policy, that's what matters very much to the topic we're really talking about, while the proposers' wish to facilitate increased tax rebates when one owns a few shares or a small shareholding in a company, has proved to lead to very little change in the company's behaviour, in the company's behaviour and in the influence of shareholders in the company, compared to what is happening, that's an increasing amount of faceless financial capital acting in a completely different direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-16.ana.ud534e424	This first half of the year, with a new government, has given birth to some interesting debates in the field of finance. Many of them have shared the view that it has been stressed how wealth is unevenly distributed in this country. We've heard about how the ten richest people own a large part of the wealth, and it's been expressed as a problem. I can agree that it's a problem, because it doesn't represent a spread of power, as one might wish after the Left's view. Then, of course, a good measure against this should be to speak very well to spread this power of ownership. It is also a contribution to the spread of power and democracy in a country. It is a point of value that I had actually expected there to be quite a broad consensus – that it is good that wealth and ownership are spread to many. So you can have a different view of instruments and so on. This attitude and debate have actually given rise to questions as to whether there is a common view that the spread of ownership is good. The representative of Klungland from the Workers' Party had to the degrees, as I see it, a negative view that ownership should be spread, and that it is good that people own a little in businesses. That's a very perceptive position on a little sleepy 16th of May, I have to say. I would also like to say that there is a little technical response from the Government through the Minister of Finance to the question of whether it is valuablely desirable to have a scattered ownership power. You can disagree about taxes, etc. I remember an old good SV slogan: «Share the Goods». I understand that SV in the Ministry of Finance has replaced it with «Calculate the goods», which I also think is very good that you do. But spreading ownership is actually sharing the good and perhaps also contributing to creating the good – which is a prerequisite for being able to share the good. With this introduction, I'm sure I'll say quite clearly that the left is to spread ownership. It is a democratic matter and an important value point no matter what means you wish. It may be possible to think that there are already good instruments, but still be very much for it. We have, through reports and similar documents, documented how it is. We have some good examples in Norway today, for example. the new carrier Norwegian, Mamut and Veileck, where this has been successfully used. When you think about what's really the government party and government position, it's a little bit of a look back at what the parties meant in the opposition about this, because there's been similar proposals in the past. I want to refer from Innst. S. No 49 for 1996-97 to show that there is a slightly confusing debate. The Working Party wrote the following for a similar proposal: ‘These members will ask the Government to go through the legislation of the arrangements that promote the ability of employees to buy shares in their own company as part of their efforts to promote long-term and active ownership.’ So that's what the party of the representative Klungland, who made a statement earlier today, expressed in the previous period. And it's quite identical to proposal No. 1st@item: inlistbox The center part expressed something similar in the same setting. They followed up like this: ‘These members consider it important that employees can be co-owners of their own business, both for the company’s business and also as a contribution to ensuring Norwegian ownership of the business. These members therefore believe that the Government should review existing rules that stimulate or restrict the possibility of employee participation in its own enterprise.» I.e. identical to proposal No. 1 today. Then you see how in government and in government cooperation you affect each other towards creating great uncertainty about what you have obviously meant. The centre party and the representative Lundtigen choose to hold on to the fact that it is either a personal ownership, which I also think is very good, not least in agriculture it is used a lot, and it bears witness to the importance of personal ownership, ownership with the soul, long-termity, etc. Or it's going to be co-ownership, which is something completely different. But there is no contradiction between being for any of this and being for ownership in all other companies – large limited liability companies, small limited liability companies – should be spread as much as possible, as a democratic errand. So let me express the clear position that the left essentially shares the values of the meaning of sharing ownership with the employees. We want to actively stimulate it through instruments, as it appears in today's proposals. And I am somewhat surprised at the signals, both valuable and otherwise, that come from the government parties in this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-16.ana.ud534e455	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-16.ana.ud534e458	The representative of Klungland is talking about Soria Moria. Soria Moria lay as familiar in the fog home, so it's not at all problematic to imagine both the representative Klungland himself and the government heading straight to Soria Moria. The second thing I find strange in the posts of the representative, Klungland, is the negative associations around the United States of America. Klungland comes from a part of Norway, Feda in Kvinesdal, where perhaps most of them disappeared to the former country. So that's probably a reason Klungland and his family stayed. So over to the core of the matter, that's employee participation. This is a matter that is in time. It's something that's increasing, and it's positive. Strong growth in employee ownership is seen in both the EU and the US, and is seen in some industries and industries in Norway, especially ICT. When Mamut the manager Eilert Hanoa was asked what this is doing for Mamut, he said: On the one hand, it actually makes my warehouse workers want to stand on a little extra, that they come to my office every quarter and ask for the quarterly results. On the other hand, it makes me, as the manager, able to lock in the best heads of the company a little longer. While in the ICT industry there is a huge shift in the workforce, which goes from business to business, it is precisely the companies that offer their employees co-ownership in the company, which manages to lock them in a little more. But it has the same thing. Road cover is probably the enterprise in Norway which, for the most part and over the longest time, has just used the incentive to give ownership to employees. And if you were to try to compare SAS Braathens and Norwegian, at least you see a completely different loyalty in the company of Norwegian, and then you can wonder what the reason is. What is certain is that we see increased productivity. You can see better competitiveness, which motivates in a completely different way. You see an innovation force, which is also better. It's higher profitability. It locks up the competence, which I was inside. It gives a better entrepreneurial spirit. And it gives better access to capital. These are some of the most positive aspects of employee participation. I thought I would finally come in at the first time I met the representative Heikki Holmås. Then he wasn't a representative. It was at a debate meeting in Bergen, where the main thing for the representative was the importance of getting employees to own their own business. It runs away from the representative. While we have the solutions, the words are solved in the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-16.ana.ud534e473	It is surprising that the Minister of Finance, in his reply to the Finance Committee in this matter, does not use the occasion for a discussion on how to further contribute to a positive development for business. Most importantly, without commenting on the proposal, a theoretical discussion on tax reform, on why it breaks with it, and on why it violates the principle of non-discrimination, while, from the very beginning, one has broken the intentions of the tax reform on the balancing of marginal taxation, on the taxation of wealth and on the clearing up of the tax jungle. We currently have a small discount on employee participation. The proposers have not at all proposed any amount which, as stated in the letter from the Minister of Finance, will contribute to a remuneration of securities that would contribute to financial instability in the value market. Of course, I am pleased with the finance minister's newly acquired care for the stock exchange and for the securities markets, but I hardly think anyone would suspect the Right Finance Fraction to be at the forefront of contributing to financial instability in this area. What we have asked for is a broad assessment of measures that can help more employees become joint owners and get responsibility and interest for their own business. And we know that this works. The representative Sponheim has read old proposals from the government parties. I have read a recent party speech from the government parties called the Soria Moria Declaration, which is the representative of Klungland marching tactfully into the future. Students will be invited to participate in student establishments, to visit learning venues, to learn entrepreneurship as part of primary school training, and to have larger or more funds for entrepreneurs under the direction of Innovation Norway. Then comes a constructive proposal from the opposition that does not focus on how to teach someone theoretically to become entrepreneurs or owners, or how to create support schemes, but simply on how to become a partner in practice – at your own workplace. And it meets the Minister of Finance with the tax reform highly elevated, as a sort of sacred grail – a tax reform in which, during the treatment, SV did not actually have a comprehensive view of this at all, except to impose the highest possible tax burden on owners and employees. Here the government had the opportunity to make a small but important contribution to what is also being sung in the Soria Moria Declaration, the national ownership. When employees own, there will always be a national ownership. But that opportunity was disguised. In fact, it would have been more neat to say that tax reliefs are, in principle, against whatever purpose, except for the deduction of the trade union quota, tax exemptions for the diet of pedestal workers, and also now, in the last analysis, as a contribution to getting agricultural settlements in port.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-16.ana.ud534e484	Let me just deal with the suggestions in the setting that the minority is putting forward. I record that the Minister of Finance does not intend to take the floor on this matter – her on it. This is probably an expression of SV's perplexity, as we have clearly seen in this discussion, but also because one does not want to expose more to the old-fashioned thinking that lies in the Government and SV's position in this matter. I record that the representative Heikki Holmås says that SV is for influence and democratic rights for the employees. That's right too. But we want to expand this influence. We want employees to be able to co-owners as well as to have influence through the democratic rights they have in the law. It is not about, as the representative Holmås says, that the directors will come out even better. That's not what this case is about. A prerequisite for obtaining tax credits for the purchase of shares is that there are broad schemes that benefit all employees. In other words, this is about the warehouse workers, not the director. That's why I'm a little surprised that SV adopts this attitude. SV is obvious for employees to have influence by taking power from the owners. It is against employee involvement being ensured by the fact that the employees are co-owners. Then my question is, isn't this really a bit of a cramped attitude because you see that now the contrast between work and capital falls away? Doesn't SV and the Government really live in the last century, where was the contrast between labour and capital? It can be seen that in the new and modern working life there are no longer such contradictions, at least not if you are able to get systems and arrangements that make more employees co-owners of the company. So – since speaking time is short – finally to Lundtigen, who talks about the tax reform being a setback for the self-employed. But it is the new government's tax proposal that represents a setback for the self-employed. For it was the self-employed who got the whole tax boost from the new government – through higher wealth taxes, through higher top taxes than our government had posted, and with a lower shielding deduction. There are three proposals which mean that the self-employed have come out worse. It is the responsibility of Lundtigen and the Government – one and only. So to the extent that you are concerned with the self-employed, you should reverse the tax increases that came with the red-green government, when new burdens were placed on the small businesses – on the self-employed.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-16.ana.ud534e497	The representative Jan Tore Sanner has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-16.ana.ud534e500	So we have one thing here today where, in the form of a comment, the parties of government, which are the majority, have been very positive about what the proposers are dealing with. We have conducted a hearing, and the hearing bodies are very positive. We didn't get any contradictions there. The majority of the Committee has even written in its own note a part that it is positive that enterprises are owned and managed by employees. However, one chooses to conclude that this does not go on – understand the one who can. I refer you to the letter that the Council of State sent to the Finance Committee, dated 16 March, where she, among other things, writes the following: ‘Operator management may have motives to focus less on the long-term, sustainable development of the company and more on short-term appreciation of the company’s shares, both through financial arrangements and in the accounts’.» [[and employees]] Here I feel that there is a significant suspicion on the part of the Council of State by many who are employed in Norwegian companies, and by many business managers who I believe in the group are very concerned about securing their businesses a long and good life. I am absolutely convinced of that. And I think this suspicion is strange. On the other hand, I record what the majority writes in their comment: «Company owned and managed by employees will be concerned with long-term profitability, rather than short-term returns.» So here's a contradiction: there's two very different reasons. Nevertheless, this leads to the same conclusion, that this is something that is simply annexed to the protocol and not coming back to. Based on what has been said from among others. The representative of Klungland in this room today, I think it's strange to start with being positive in some areas, and then slaughtering it. Could it not at least be asked by the Government at the latest in the context of the 2007 State Budget to provide a broad assessment of measures that can help more employees become co-owners in their own company? It would be positive to have at least a wide-ranging debate on possible measures, and then you could see if you could get any further. So instead, you choose to reject it. That's what I think is strange.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-16.ana.ud534e519	Employee participation has many sides. It's about identity, understanding about value creation, understanding about risk-taking and also motivation – there are actually a lot of people who find it more motivating to paint their own house than to paint someone else's. It is also about how to maintain skills in the face of new challenges. We often talk about a good and active business, but very rarely discuss how important ownership is in that way. An active ownership is, as I see it, the very prerequisite for a strong and development-oriented business. This isn't just about focusing on power, but it's just as much about focusing on development. Active ownership is crucial for innovation and innovation, and therefore active ownership is quite so crucial for Norwegian long-term well-being. I think you need a discussion about how to actually keep an active private ownership in Norway. Ensuring employee participation must be a very important part of that discussion. As the representative Sanner mentioned, ownership in Norway is taxed very tough today, and the red-greens have made it even tougher by keeping the property tax and reducing the protective deduction, and then, of course, the issue of relocation comes in to some degree. It'll probably only apply to a few. But the vast majority of Norwegian owners are small owners who sit out in their local settings and identify with them, and they really don't have an alternative. They want to contribute to a development in their local settings, and that ability is considerably weakened in this way. Studies also show that Europe may have problems in terms of development, by having a much lower level of risk and ability than in other parts of the world. That's something I think you have to take seriously, and introducing the employees that co-owners in the company is an important part of it. So to me, it's quite incomprehensible that you just reject such a proposal and not drag it into a broader discussion and consider it. It had deserved a much better treatment than that.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-16.ana.ud534e528	I feel the need to correct some misunderstandings or some contradictions, and I want to start with Mr. Sanner's posts, where he said it was so important to get co-ownership in order to gain participation for example. to prevent removal. At the same time, the representative writes in his proposal that in Hydro there are 10,000 employees. I think he was going to go up to Årdal and use his arguments there. That Mamut's doing so well, that's fine. But it's with today's system, so that's not a good argument either. So to the representative Gitmark: It's right that people from Feda – who are a beautiful place, which I don't realize they traveled from – traveled to America. Yeah, they did. But the strange thing is that when they get retired, or they get sick, or they get kids who need public help, they move back to Feda, one by one. And you know what's the worst: they're on the municipal board for the Progress Party! [[Laughter]] I don't want it to be representative of Feda, so I felt the need to fix it. So the representative Sponheim says we have to have a broad ownership. Yeah, but isn't it great that almost five million? people are in and own State Power, are they in and own Statoil? Much wider than that, one cannot get it in Norway. Then it is not that we reject the proposal – we attach it to the protocol. So we don't have to make this in this room like this is something we're slaughtering. But it's the end of the big business. And that's what we went to elections on. The right forces went to the choice of privatisation and private choice. But when the rich – Right Friends – were to have greater freedom of choice, they needed more money. That's why we got more poor in the last period. When the elderly were invited, municipal politicians were forced to privatise. When it was cut in the taxes of the rich, it increased the excess and the fees for those in need of help. When the previous government and the Progress Party chose tax incentives over joint schemes, the public aid for funerals was removed. The schools were cut, and the care of the elderly was poorer. The Norwegian people wanted something different. It is the policy of the Government and the parties in it that are involved in continuing. The right forces get to call it what they want – we have a majority up to the next election.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-16.ana.ud534e541	To Ulf Leirstein, who is not able to read in a sufficiently good way: In the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party's comment in the setting, it says: «Company owned and managed by employees will be engaged in long-term profitability [[...]] Whereas in the answer given by the Minister of Finance: «I would also like to point out that share and option remuneration may have negative effects on long-term value creation.» It is short-term because the share and option remuneration is used to make the employees buy shares in cases where the share price has increased. You get a lower price to get it out of direct pay, because initially you can't afford to sit with these shares, which may have become more expensive. That leads to short-termity. Ownership and control lead to long-termity. So to Jan Tore Sanner, who has become so tall and dark that it is absolutely incredible – he seems to have forgotten that he is about to turn gray in his hair: he has been sitting as a fiscal spokesman for a government party for four years. 23 billion dollars in annual tax bills have given them in the last few years. Nevertheless, no room has been found for these tax havens. Nevertheless, in the last four years we have not heard a hug from Jan Tore Sanner about co-ownership. Now it comes – as an extra tax package right now. We are not interested in rejecting this proposal. We think it should be annexed to the Minutes, as the previous speaker said. The proposal from, among others: Jan Tore Sanner lacks some essential elements. The previous government did not produce a single document showing that the type of share purchase arrangement we are dealing with today, which was introduced by Willoch, has led to a huge spread of ownership. So there is no good evidence that this has happened. The crucial factor for employee participation to have a positive impact on productivity is the ownership of a significant share of the enterprise. That's what it says. The documentation, the research from the United States, on which you are leaning from the Right, shows that you must have considerable influence, you must have decentralised. The decentralised and influence we have worked to ensure – among other things. through the rights of workers with regard to policy influence. We believe that we need to look at other organisational models, for example. cooperative models, and learn from those countries in Europe where there is the kind of organisation that ensures effective influence on businesses. Employees own 1 pst, 2 pst. or 3 pst. in a company, there will be no productivity growth. It won't at all lead to any increased influence. It just becomes tax havens to the richest.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-16.ana.ud534e566	You can discuss the purpose of a long debate, because there is not one person in the press room, nor in the diplomat lodge. This is a very special debate. Right-wing representatives, not least Sanner and the Fleet, have produced it in such a way as to address the most fundamental issues in the development of Norwegian business. According to Sanner, the fundamental question is how modern working life is to be developed, this proposal is about. As the representative Holmås said, the Right has been sitting for four years in the government. For 1 400 days, they have had the opportunity to make suggestions on how to meet modern working life. I have not seen any such suggestion. Secondly, I register that the representative fleet says that the government has an opportunity to make a small but important contribution. Why didn't you do that when you were in government position? Why didn't this little, but important contribution come when the Right in these 1,400 days put in government, when they had a majority with the Advance Party and had full control of the Christian People's Party and the Left? I did not see any such contribution. I don't necessarily think it would have been right, but you had the full opportunity. You didn't do it. Thirdly, to the debate on tax reform. So the previous government presented a big message about a tax reform. In that big message, I did not see a proposal that measures should be taken to encourage employees to own shares. On the contrary, one of the features of the big message was that it was proposed to remove everything that existed from deduction schemes — a bit unspecified. You wouldn't tell me before the election what to cut, but you would cut. It was not about establishing any new such arrangements. Today it is thought that it is completely uninteresting what Per-Christian Foss, Sanner's associate leader in the Right, meant when he was sitting as Minister of Finance. In fact, I don't think it's interesting to look at what was practice six months ago, nor at what was the practice of the Progress Party, which then had a great influence on politics. But then there's an important moment: there's a fundamental difference between the right-hand side and the centre-left side's argument about influence. The Workers' Party, together with SV, has always argued that employees should have an influence by virtue of the labour force with which they contribute to the development of the company, and not only by means of the raising of capital. It's been fighting the right-hand side massively from day one. In fact, they have gradually given up on the issue of corporate democracy. For us, therefore, it is that employees must be guaranteed influence through corporate democracy by contributing to the development of labour, and not by purchasing into a minority position in order to have a rail influence in the business.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-16.ana.ud534e581	The representative, Sanner, had a greeting to the Central Party in connection with the 2006 budget – it was true that we had acted contrary to what was the interests of seafaring traders. In order to clarify this, a seafaring trader who earns a lot must pay a high tax in the same way as an employee who earns a lot, and, in the view of the Centre Party, pay a higher tax than the one on which the Right contributed. Similarly, a seafaring trader or employee who has a lot of assets in shares is given a basis for paying increased taxes on wealth. They're taxes on ability that is our principle. It is a principle that is under heavy fire today. It is a principle that has been in Norwegian tax policy since 1882. Then we got a redemption of the matrikkel debt tax, i.e. a property tax, for a tax on income and wealth, and a wealth of a significant amount. The property in its origin was estimated to be as large as three to four times the gross annual income. It was a fortune that every citizen could have without it triggering an extra tax on what was called a job-free income. That principle underlies and follows the principle of the Centre Party, whether in the case of sea-going traders or employees. But what was my challenge – and it’s a core challenge, and it’s a challenge that will have a major impact on how Norwegian business will be organised in the future – is the challenge of taxation of individual enterprises versus limited liability companies. Because with the tax policy provided by the Right of the Minister of Finance Per-Kristian Foss, it is today that if a limited liability company has a profit of a certain amount, similar to the profit of an individual corporation, the holding company that keeps its profits on the holding will get significantly better than the individual corporation that keeps its profits on the holding. It can certainly underline the correctness of the right-wing fiscal spokesman Svein Flätten. This could over time lead to the reorganization of activities today related to individual companies into limited liability companies – from unlimited financial liability to limited financial liability, and from a long-term tradition to a more short-term tradition. It's an unfortunate development for the Center Party. Isn't it that right here has a job to do in terms of what one here is talking about, to increase participation, increased responsibility, into business?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-16.ana.ud534e598	Let me first say to the representative Schjøtt-Pedersen, who is wondering what we did for 1,400 days in government, that he can only look around in Norwegian business to see the results. I think that should be an adequate answer. I think the representative of Klungland must have taken the wrong script. He's still using a manuscript from the election campaign, while we're debating something completely different. I do not think it is a good argument against co-ownership that Mamut – a company that has co-ownership – is doing very well. It should be the other way around. When it comes to his number of poor and homeless, they're actually directly crazy. It's not right that the number has increased. On the contrary, it sank in our reign. So to SV and Heikki Holmås, who still believe that the employees should rule only through the small opportunity they have by sitting in the boards. In other words, he believes that it is the trade unions that have to decide who should have this influence, while what we want is to expand the possibilities for everyone. What neither Klungland, Holmås nor, at least, Lundtigen talks about anymore, is this with active industrial policy. This is a way of activating industrial policy. When Lundtigen talks about the conditions for personal business, my question is back: Why has Lundtigen not made suggestions to improve the conditions after his party came into government, if he thinks they are bad? On the contrary, they're sharpened. In addition to the cases mentioned by Jan Tore Sanner, the salary deduction for self-employed workers has also been tightened. What is the truth is that with regard to the taxation of self-employed workers, the Senter Party, by its participation in this government, has ended up in a very deleterious company.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-16.ana.ud534e609	Jan Tore Sanner has spoken twice and gets the floor for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-16.ana.ud534e612	I record that Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen is more concerned with discussing the past than the future. If it is that a government had implemented all its policies in four years, there is no government that would have needed to seek re-election. I guess the sitting government is going to need at least one more period after what we see so far. I also record that the Schjött-Pedersen finally says that the work movement and the left-hand side are concerned with ensuring influence through the labour force, the corporate democracy itself. The right is also for corporate democracy. This is whether to extend corporate democracy by having influence – not only by taking ownership of those who own it, but also by being influenced by being part of it. Finally, Lundtigen: I register that the centre party is now more concerned with agriculture than with the sole proprietor in general. In the past, the centre party had many exciting suggestions that would also have benefited other self-employed people. To put it this way, if the Central Party takes advantage of removing the wealth tax on working capital, it will receive support from the Right, as a first important step in removing it completely. We're looking forward to the Center Party being able to stand up for the private owners. We haven't seen much to that extent.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-16.ana.ud534e621	I have a lot of understanding that this government and government parties need to look back. At least they don't look forward, and they don't have visions for the future. When you look at the number of things this government is presenting, it has to be a historical low. At the same time, there is good reason to go back to the past and see what the previous government actually did: we turned around a unemployment rate that was rising under the Workers' Party and Stoltenberg I, we arranged for the number of people with payment problems to decrease significantly, the number of homeless people also fell significantly. So overall, the last four-year period was very good for those with the lowest income and for those with no income at all. So to the actual influence that you talked about here. I believe that having both employee representatives in the board of directors and other employees with joint ownership, who are thus elected to the ownership of a company, increases the overall representation of employees. If you use Road Deck as an example, the CEO also says that it had not been because the employees had been so large on the owner’s side, Veil Deck would no longer be Norwegian. Then you would no longer have a national ownership of Road Deck. It is also one of the instruments not mentioned by today's red-green government: you want to have a national ownership, but you want to tax them out of the country. You want to increase the wealth tax, as you've done, you have reduced the shielding deduction, and you increase the top tax. All of this helps to make it more difficult to run a business from Norway, and it in turn increases the pressure to get international owners in. But our 1,400 days in government are very close enough, I look forward to 1,400 new – or much more than this – when this government period ends in 2009.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-16.ana.ud534e632	Per Olaf Lundtigen has spoken twice and is given the floor for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-16.ana.ud534e635	I appreciate the fact that the Right Tax Spokesman challenges the Center Party. It just sharpens our sense of work. What is interesting, however, is that the representative Fleet cannot even now admit from the Stockholm pulpit that there was a planned discrimination from former Minister of Finance Per-Kristian Foss in the taxation of the profits we talked about here, in the form of a limited liability company or in the form of maritime ownership. It's interesting that the Right can't admit the deliberate discrimination that this is committed to. In the case of taxes on wealth, the Senterpartiet is quite solid on taxes according to its ability, as enshrined in the Tax Act of 1882, linked to the fact that property taxes were a tax that you paid for a non-unemployed income in excess of a certain amount. If you have a wealth that does not provide a job-free income, according to the tax law, there is no basis for imposing a property tax. That is why we are still exempt from working capital.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-16.ana.ud534e642	Svein Flätten has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-16.ana.ud534e645	The discrimination on which the representative Lundtigen is involved is simply essential because Lundtigen’s party in government has contributed to the non-implementation of the tax reform by the liquidation of the property tax.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-16.ana.ud534e650	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2238]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-16.ana.ud534e665	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each Party and up to 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-16.ana.ud534e674	After a somewhat refreshing debate on co-ownership here in the hall, I will try to be brief. I know there's more going further than to the Drammen, to say it like this, a little later this evening. I just want to say first of all that driving a car in Norway involves a lot too many people in this country, including myself. Either it's about routine transportation to and from work – being able to get in the car, as I did today early, and driving from Drammen to Oslo – or it's about traveling on vacation or visiting friends, it shows that the car is a very important part of modern society. This is not least the case in the more pig-grown areas of the country. That's why in many ways it's all right to get a discussion about this, even if, according to the majority, it comes something early compared to the overall review. I'll come back to it. But it is important to stress that cars and driving are also about some negative consequences for Norwegian society. Cars contribute to noise, traffic accidents and not least to pollution, creating major challenges in Norway and globally. At the same time, we must not forget that cars and motor vehicles provide large sums of money to the joint fund that finances the welfare state of Norway, which goes to transport, but also to other measures. When we are discussing today the proposal of representatives of Solberg, Skovholt Gitmark, Helleland and Hansen from the Right to reduce the purchase fees on the car and to convert the purchase fees on the car to a greater extent based on CO2 emissions, we must not forget that there is a significant amount of money we are talking about, such as NOK 44 billion above the state budget. The majority of the financial committee in its position on this matter does not really address the proposal of the Right – at this stage. It's about two things. Firstly, we already announced in the Soria Moria statement that the government parties will have a conversion of car charges in a more environmentally friendly direction, and we also said in the Appendix to the State budget for the current year that this announced conversion will come from the harvest onwards. But something is already clear. We are fully in line with the Right in terms of taking CO2 as one of the components of the charging system. This will mean that cars that emit less CO2, i.e. less liquor out of the pot, will be cheaper, and that cars that, for various reasons, are some rats on CO2 emissions will be more expensive. How much cheaper, and how much of the one-off charge to be based on CO2, we will come back when the 2007 budget is ready. In addition, it is also known that hydrogen-based internal combustion engines have already been exempted, as have the fuel tax for bioethanol, known as E Auto 5. So we're already doing this work. It is gratifying to see that we are now fully shown that it seems to be a broad majority that will support a more environmentally friendly charging system on cars when the concrete proposals are presented to the Stortinget for the autumn. This is in line with what I see as a broad consensus which also includes the professional organisations in Norway, including the NAF and the environmental protection organisations, which have also supported a differentiated charging system such as environmental prices to a greater extent than before. But it is also important to take into account that there seems to be some disagreement about whether the system should be set up so that we collectively bring in equal amounts of money to the community, or whether one should take advantage of some of the state's revenues and lower the more general level of taxes on cars. Even now, I just want to say that the Workers' Party and the other government parties have already made it clear – and I would like to say it again – that we intend to create a system that, in sum, contributes to the same amounts to the community. We have a priority list ready. It is about the single school, the care of the elderly, the elimination of poverty and many other important measures. Then we'll have enough dollars to do this. Here we record that the Right, after they came out of the government offices, now has the money to lubricate this system, these conversions of the car tax system. They've probably suggested something like NOK 2 billion. I look forward to seeing the containment, and I also record that these proposals go beyond the ordinary budgetary processes. I'm also excited about what the middle parties with the Left and Christian People's Party will do in this case. I would like to invite them from this pulpit to join a system where we put it to around zero, as we intend to propose. Finally, the government parties are very positive about the conversion of car charges in a more environmentally friendly direction. But as I said, we will come back to this when the final proposals from the Government are available for the autumn. The objectives are clearly already in place today: Norway will have a safer and more environmentally friendly car park.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-16.ana.ud534e715	Norwegian car charges are among the highest in the world. There are many of us who thicken are strongly unimaginable. I think that more people could have accepted high car charges if the car charges had gone to a road destination, but when one, in addition to high car charges, sees that only a small part of these car charges go to a roadside destination, it becomes extra unimaginable. High car charges and, in particular, the high entrance fee have led us to have a very high average age at the car park in Norway. It's creating a lot of unfortunate problems. First of all, it's the way that new cars come from less than older cars, so one would have gotten rid of the pollution if we had renewed the car park. It is also true that older cars are much more dangerous to traffic than new cars. This has also been studied and researched by two researchers at SINTEF, and they have calculated that if we had renewed the car park, one could have saved 250 lives over the next 15 years, and of course also had a corresponding reduction in the number of injuries in traffic. There are figures that are worth noting, and that should be a good starting point for reducing entry fees. The Progress Party proposed in our alternative state budget for 2006 that one should reduce the one-time fee by 10 pst. as a first step to get it removed permanently. We didn't get any other party with us on that. Now we see that the Right has started to consider reducing the one-time charge. We see that as very positive, and I hope that one can then become some of a common proposal and have a common front for that very theme for years to come. We also proposed to increase the wreckage from NOK 1500 to NOK 6000. In addition to reducing the one-off charge, we believe that it is a good tool to get rid of some of the old traffic-hazardous and environmental-polluting cars that are flying around on the roads today. This is, in our opinion, good investment. For those who are afraid of the pressure in the Norwegian economy, a lower one-off fee and a higher wreckage should also be a good tool. Of course, if we reduce the one-time charge on a car, this will lead to an increase in the demand for new cars, but they are not produced in Norway. New cars will also reduce traffic accidents and reduce the need for workshop services. So the reduction in car charges will be a good tool to reduce the pressure in the Norwegian economy. There are other reasons for this. Consumers, motorists, are fast getting lower car charges. It will also reduce transport costs, both for private households and for business. I can hardly see any other arguments to maintain the high car charges that we have today, than that the state needs these money. When we look at the huge surplus that we have on the state budget, there should be no problem of reducing car charges to a European level. On the basis of this, we are in favour of proposal No. 1, which calls for a reduction of the one-off fee to be launched in 2007. In the case of proposal No: 2, on the CO2-based one-time charge, we are of the opinion that the one-time fee should be removed. In addition, the government has also said that they will return to the CO2-based one-time fee, so we do not see any need to support that proposal. Proposal No. So 1 is on, but it's right. It's right, it's right, it's right, it's right, it's right, it's right, it's right, it's right. So I'm not taking that up here.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-16.ana.ud534e740	Norwegian car charges are too high. Unfortunately, Norwegian car charges actually make it easier for unnecessary lives to be lost in traffic and the cars pollute too much. We have an average car park in Norway of about 10.3 years, while in the United States and the EU there is an average car park with an average age of 7–8 years. If you look at environmental statistics, it turns out that cars in the last 15 years have turned 95 pst. more environmentally friendly. In other words, a car will release from today a twenty-oneth of the car produced 15 years ago. This is a formidable step forward. If you move on to the safety moment, the Swedish insurance company Folksam reports every year, ‘How safe is the car?’, which assumes that when you compare cars from the period 2000 to today with cars from the period 1985 to 1989, it is 90 pst. less risk of death if you are in the latest car. This does not take control of the Government. You are only concerned about the environment – and I am so happy that you are concerned about it too, but you forget the safety aspect. In an environment where you want to focus so much on the environment, safety, and especially the family-friendly cars, will suffer. Safer cars are heavier, and heavier cars use more fuel on average. I am tempted to quote former Prime Minister Thorbjørn Jagland, now the Grand President, who said around 1997 – without having the exact year – that it was really time to do something about the Norwegian purchase fees on the car, the car charges had become too high, and they had to be reduced. That's absolutely right. The previous government set up a working group in 2002 to look at this. The working group concluded yes, if you want a system where the environment is also involved. That is precisely what the Right intention is – to focus on the environment on the one hand and safety on the other. Then you have to wait until the car manufacturers themselves decide to publish the emissions figures. They do so now, and therefore this proposal is also being promoted by the Right. At the same time, I'm very happy that you're signaling from the Government that you're coming back with a bigger case on this, where we can take it up in a larger room. However, I can already signal that in our 2007 budget proposal there will be general tax relief for cars. It won't take place, as the Government says, within a province-neutral framework. We have many families with children who are completely dependent on a car. These deserve an armshake with regard to the purchase fee. Only Denmark has higher car charges in Europe than Norway. This is also reflected in the average age of cars in Norway. If we want to save lives, we do what we can in Stortinget to bring down the purchase fees and build more roads. That combination helps to improve road safety among all those who depend on cars. Finally, I would like to address the two proposals to which the right is a co-rapporteur.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-16.ana.ud534e757	The representative Peter Skovholt Gitmark has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-16.ana.ud534e760	Basically, it is all right to have a round like this about the car tax system now in the spring part, simply because this is something we from the government team have said that we are going to come back to the budget for 2007. Then it's all right to get a round where we hear what the opposition parties think about the matter, and you have the opportunity to make some proper recordings. There's a lot of ways to make that kind of input, but it's all right to have a debate here, too. But of course, in the Soria Moria statement, we've said very clearly that this is not something we're going to spend money on. This is not a priority. Giving tax relief in this area is not a priority, simply because – unlike the Progress Party, which will only spend more money from the oil fund to finance this – we need that money to invest in community, school, well-being and care. I'm very excited, and I'm happy to see to the harvest what areas it is Right will cut in to make sure to finance a decrease in the taxes on cars. Let's move on to what's central, how we can get a more environmentally friendly and safe car park. The right comes with the input that the central unit here is going to get a CO2 component into the one-time charge. We say that from the government team is something we're working on. This is what we're going to do, and Torgeir Micasen was also involved in this in his post. I feel that the recording from the Right, which they have spent four years in government working on, is at least something we from the government team are now going to implement. The second piece – and there I feel the need to arrest the Right Representative, Peter Skovholt Gitmark – goes on the safety of the cars. In the Soria Moria statement, we say we're for safer cars. We are going to work to change the charging system so that we can also facilitate safer cars. And then it's said that then we have to have a lot heavier cars. Let me problem it a little bit: it's basically that it's safer to sit in a heavy car than in a light car. But it is not much safer to be hit by a heavy car than by a light car, and there are many reasons for that. Normally, a heavy-duty car will need a longer braking distance, for example, because it is heavier. Basic laws of nature then suggest that it takes longer to brake. At the same time, if you collide with a light car, the other car will initially get more material damage. What we know is that in the case of cars from the year 2000 onwards, almost all of the cars are good and safe, because there were some quantum leaps that led to this. There is no doubt that the steel in the cars has led to safe cars. But if you talk to the car manufacturer and the car importers, they say that it is fully possible to get safe cars of less than one tonne. And some of the reasons why the cars have become heavier are certain that you have also put more effort into comfort – larger seats, heavier seats, etc., which means that the cars have become heavier, which is therefore initially a greater danger to other road users. However, we believe that it must be possible to go a few rounds and take some proper discussions on this that goes on the weight of the cars, and that we can manage to get safe cars in place. There is no doubt that families with children invest in safety in their own car. There is no doubt that security is one of the things people in Norway are looking for when they consider buying their own car. The last thing I thought I'd bring up here is this going on the wreckage, which comes from the Progress Party, and which they're proposing to increase. I don't think that's the essential and decisive measure to get a younger car park. We had such an experiment with a higher wreckage for one year. There was something to reduce the car fleet that year, and this led to a massive surrender of cars before the end of the year, but a decrease in the delivery of cars the year after the scheme was in place. This means that the Progress Party must want a significantly higher wreckage over time, and it costs as well-known money. But we know that the main reason for cars being delivered is that they do not comply with the EEA verification. The fact that we have put in place an EEA check, which actually makes strict demands that the car is in good condition, is what determines when people deliver the car they have. That is why I do not think, in principle, that the motion for a resolution tabled by the Committee on Budgets is a good one. But we're coming back to a broader debate for the autumn.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-16.ana.ud534e780	I'll be brief. In fact, the rapporteur has said most about the future – even with invitations to make this new charging system as good as possible. We usually accept invitations in a nice and pretty way, so we'll meet them. On the part of the Christian People's Party, we have taken the government by the word. We're waiting for what's in the budget. And to this end, I can commend the Government for its revision. There you've taken a first step right in this area. As you will see from the setting, we are not now prepared to say that we should lower the fees so that this becomes a priority rather than something else. Initially, it is from the Christian People's Party that we want to give priority to a more environmentally friendly car park. But we have also seen to it that we need to ensure a level of fees that is quite viable for families who need safe cars. That's well, I think, maybe the combination of this which is also the government's – I shouldn't say – headache, but I see here there are some challenges in combining these two measures, which I understood the representative Holmås thought were intended to combine when promoting the new proposal for the harvest. It is very much in line with the priorities we are making in the Christian People's Party in this field – a more environmentally friendly car park – and we must at the same time ensure that it does not go beyond the family-friendly cars where safety is placed in the high-seat. So we're waiting and looking forward to the proposal being presented for the autumn.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-16.ana.ud534e791	This is a debate that invites all the car-interested guys to come up with what they can do about this part of engineering. I will take the challenge from the representative Holmås and express some expectations of the car tax review we will have for the autumn, and ask for some views on this in the government that the government will then present. After all, about ten years have passed since the Stortinget dealt with a significant conversion of car taxes. The Finance Minister and I, together with others here in the Chamber, sat in the Financial Committee and discussed this. It was a major change in the environmental direction that went from establishing purchase fees based on the value of the cars to the components weight, power and capacity. After all, it is all the effects that move in a very environmentally friendly direction. Even then, ten years ago, the possibility of going straight on the CO2 emission component was discussed, but then there were no objective technical criteria that made it possible, and then a small detour was chosen that reflects the same reality. So I don't think here we're going to give the impression that going from the three components of CO2 emissions is a very dramatic new step, but it's a natural continuation because the technology has come there. Then it is important – and I expect the government to take some time on – to discuss security beyond the perspective that has emerged in this debate, namely the safety of the individual car. What I remember we learned very well in the financial committee at the time was that we need to understand safety in car traffic, we need to understand the car population – how the cars are related to each other. When it comes to the problem and you've got good technology in place in modern cars, the weight is crucial to improving the environmental impact, because it always costs a kilo in terms of energy. You never get out of it. But you can't bring down the weight in the car population until you do something about how the cars stand together. We will then face some major, complex challenges, such as: are linked to increasing heavy traffic on the roads. Increasing heavy traffic on the roads limits the opportunities offered by environmentally friendly cars, because they need to be more secure in order to meet the type of cars. Moving e.g. rail freight traffic is also an important step towards obtaining a car population that is easier and more environmentally friendly. I have a expectation that the government will trouble this so much that this too will be met in the car tax setting that had to come. When this comes up, I look forward to having a broad and good cooperation on how we can transform the system. To what extent tax proceeds are put into this, in particular, is another question. But at least we should be able to set out to have a basic tone in this room in the direction that we need to come up with a modern and good system to get environmentally friendly cars, but also to get safety in the overall traffic. We need that. I think most of us are experiencing a traffic development that could scare some people each, paths where cars pass each other very close, and the danger of a direct meeting between cars seems to be growing.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-16.ana.ud534e810	I only have a few brief comments, as this is a matter that the government has made known that we are working further towards the 2007 state budget. I would like to welcome the invitation from the representative Sponheim when he says that this is a matter for cooperation with the opposition on the Stortinget, and will be responsive to proposals and views that come from there. The government has already made two important tax changes that stimulate a more environmentally friendly car park. One is that it is clear that the so-called E85 – i.e. bioethanol, which is a form of alcohol that can be produced from different biological sources — now free of charge in Norway, as it is in Sweden. That means you can create a market for a car that has an engine that can run on nearly CO2-free fuel. There is also a car that can drive on normal petrol, and where you can switch. It is already known that an oil company has been allowed to sell this type of fuel, so here it can happen very quickly when it comes to such a development of the fleet. In addition, the one-off charge on hydrogen cars is temporarily removed, and it is to help introduce another type of technology in the environment-friendly development of the car park, to see if we can't approach it in several ways. Then we have a greater review of what is a composition of charges related to the car, both in terms of one-off and other types of charges. There we come back to the details of the 2007 state budget. I fully agree with Mr Sponheim that these are really two debates. One relates to the system conversion and how do we get it in place, and the other is what level you want to put on. I see that both in this debate and in the previous debate, the right has a bit of a strobe that I am thinking about, which is the following: Release the prisoners, it is ours! It is obvious that the Right has had a terrible desire to propose both the one and the other tax relief in addition to the 23 billion they have already proposed. When they promise that this is a priority task, they are already ahead of their own alternative budget for 2007. I will not conclude with that in this round. We can do a lot in terms of the composition of the charges. What is essential in order to get a CO2 component into the one-off charge – although the components that are already there are similar – is that you get a more consistent charging system, but also that at the moment you make the big investment in the car, you become much more aware that there is money to save on putting more emphasis on what fuel the car is on, and how much it spends per person. miles. That consciousness I think would have a lot to do. So to what's about the composition of the car park. It is true that it is safe to drive a heavy-duty car, but only for those who are in the car. For everyone else who travels on the road, a heavy car, a car that is considerably heavier than the rest of the cars that travel on the road, is a danger if anything happens. That's why you have to see the composition of the total fleet in the context. If you make sure that the car park is roughly the same weight, you have on average a safer car park. It creates some challenges in relation to what is real heavy traffic. That's why we have to look not only at whether it's possible to get trailer traffic onto the railway, but also at ship and sea, which will be another way to relieve the roads. In addition, it will always be so that we can talk about environmentally friendly dolls on cars or how we can produce new cars, and it's fun technical innovations that exist. However, especially in the central regions, public transport will be the most important and environmentally friendly option, regardless of how we turn around and turn around – whether it is land use, emissions, or local pollution related to car traffic. I look forward to making a proposal to the Stortinget on this when we present the state budget for 2007, and I would like to invite you to further debate on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-16.ana.ud534e837	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-16.ana.ud534e841	It could seem as if I invited the Minister of Finance to dance, we're going to get some good!
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-16.ana.ud534e846	Sure thing, Leirstein!
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-16.ana.ud534e851	Based on the last article by the Minister, one might get the impression that it would be an advantage in terms of road safety if all drivers in Norway had large, heavy cars. But that might not have been what was meant. I have heard that the government parties earlier in the debate have now said that the changes that are coming will be made within a proven neutral framework, i.e. that Norwegian drivers will pay the same amount of taxes overall. At times, you may have been able to get the impression that the drivers had a positive meeting, that the total fees were going down, and that you had to pay less to the state fund. I would just like to be confirmed by the Council of State that it is in fact clear that Norwegian drivers will continue to pay as much in the future as they do today.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-16.ana.ud534e858	First just a little comment on this with the weight and the size of cars. It'll be like, from just a safety point of view, that if everyone drives in big heavy cars, the problem becomes a little bit different than if someone drives in small, light cars and someone drives in big, heavy cars. The point of this safety moment is that if we make the car park look about the same, with cars around the same weight class, you have a safety effect. A large, heavy car is in itself a much larger polluter and a contribution to climate emissions than a small, light and petrol-rich car. There are two points in the same debate. So to what we're going to do in connection with the conversion of the car charges. No, we have not promised a large reduction in car charges. We're going to present a proposal that contains about the same proceeds as today. That's a good starting point. The discussion of what we should give priority to what taxes and charges we may reduce is another matter. There, the Progress Party will probably have some other priorities than that of this government.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-16.ana.ud534e867	Let me first say that I have the greatest understanding that the Minister of Finance is jealous of the Right, who is now free-lanced prisoners. I'm a little surprised by the finance minister and what she is now saying about traffic and trailers, especially trailers under one tonne – there are really quite a few of them. The problem is that when you look at the charge on so-called 7490 trucks, it's increased now. This means that just trailers in built-up districts will gain weight, because the charges are lower. If you meet the Prime Minister in a Mini Cooper, the consequence will be fatal. The same would be true if the Minister of Oil and Energy came running in his XE90 against the Prime Minister. If you take safety seriously, you actually have to bring down the total fee level, so that each family has the opportunity to buy the car that suits them best, and then at a price that looks more like it in our neighboring country.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-16.ana.ud534e874	I am not quite sure if I think the representative Gitmark's opening reply was an invitation to further civil cooperation as an alternative to this government. But the representative will enjoy freedom for as long as it lasts. So to this composition. Of course, when it comes to the discussion of weight classes and sizes of cars and safety, it will be the case that families have slightly different needs. But it's an advantage if you have a charging system that doesn't encourage people to buy heavier cars than they initially need. That is why we have done some cleaning up in the charging system that we have had. There is an important point both in terms of emissions and in terms of safety.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-16.ana.ud534e881	I am at least of the opinion that imprisonment in the Ministry of Finance makes politicians better politicians. At least we have good examples of that. First, I would like to express in the view of Proven Neutrality that the Left is going to take into account when we want to review this for the autumn, to look at the proceeds in the light of the total car charges, and perhaps not limit it to purchasing tax issues. It has, among other things, with conversion from use to buy environmentally friendly cars. Let me also commend the government and finance minister for the proposal on bioethanol, which is now assimilated to biodiesel. My question is related to how we ensure attractive incentives to use the environmentally friendly cars, the zero-emission cars. The left has helped to achieve many good solutions for electric cars, including: toll-free, toll-free and parking-free. Now, according to the media, there is a proposal, a note, to the government that goes on parking rules, to cancel this with a tax exemption in parking for electric cars. Is there anything that the Minister of Finance will engage in to contribute to this not happening?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-16.ana.ud534e890	I haven't gone into the questions about what kind of other types of incentives you might have to have to either stimulate people to buy electric cars or other cars that can go on biofuels, etc. I think it's interesting what they've done in Sweden in this field. They have used a wide range of instruments to get to it. We'll follow that closely. But at the same time, in the case of these new E85 cars, it is, as far as I remember, approx. 20 pst. of new car sales in Sweden in this category. This means that some of the instruments with which one has been a little liberal at the moment when one has introduced a new technology may have to be tightened up again, because it is at the expense of other types of environmental considerations. But I'm going to look at several types of instruments here, so that we can get a little bit more progress in investment in a more environmentally friendly car park. To a large extent, it will be about how to introduce new technology. Once established and given a significant market share, the framework conditions may be slightly changed again.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-16.ana.ud534e899	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-16.ana.ud534e904	Let me, when we talk about car charges and CO2, be allowed to praise the Minister of Finance for the fact that it was actually an SV Finance Minister who contributed to the removal of the taxes on bioethanol. But then I have to express a wish that this system will be permanent, even if it becomes a success. This may indicate that when natural gas is now being used in Norway to some extent, it will be subject to charging. Let's hope that doesn't happen to bioethanol. For years, there has been a target to reduce CO2 emissions from the Norwegian car park. In my opinion, this has been a symbolic policy. It's been about electric cars and small cars and hydrogen, etc. I think we can agree that this has not led to very much reduction in CO2 emissions. Reducing CO2 emissions per the mileage in the passenger car is simple, it's just that the smaller the car weighs, the less CO2 it emits. In view of that, I find it strange that Gitmark places so much emphasis on road safety as he does in his post, all the time the proposal to the Left and the Right cannot be understood in any particular way other than that they want a charging system based only on CO2. I believe that the reason for the failure of the existing policy in this area is that no credible incentive has been given to those who need the most for a car. Both Mikalsen and Gitmark were involved. These are the families in the districts, and the finance minister says people shouldn't buy a heavier car than they need. Is it the Ministry of Finance that knows what car individuals and families in Norwegian districts need? I think electric cars can be as cheap as they want – when mom and dad and two kids go to work, kindergarten and school in the morning and choir practice, hockey training and bridge club in the afternoon, and they live two miles away from all of this, then it's not relevant to buy an electric car no matter what it costs. I think the only sensible thing to do is to put in place a charging system that makes safe and environmentally friendly family cars more accessible to most people, and then it doesn't use to base the charging system unilaterally on CO2 emissions, you also have to have other conditions in the picture.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-16.ana.ud534e942	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 2238]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-16.ana.ud534e958	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated up to 5 minutes per party and up to 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will make suggestions that there will be a possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines after contributions from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, it is suggested that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the time allocated, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It is seen as a confirmation.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-16.ana.ud534e967	The proponents of the Procedural Party have proposed to reduce the electricity charge during periods of high electricity prices, and the aim is likely to lower the electricity prices overall over the periods of high electricity prices. To that it is just one thing to say: the Progress Party is responsible for the high power prices and swings a lot. The Progress Party was to consolidate the market principle in the electricity sector – the Workers' Party and SV voted against. The Progress Party is market fundamentalists, who believe the market is best for everything; it's just to look at what Siv Jensen had of countless opinions on this at the Progress Party national meeting last weekend. They would have more markets in several areas of society, in the health and care sector, in schools. This will lead to greater differences and will affect people with the lowest income. It should be unnecessary to instruct market fundamentalists from the Progress Party on how the market works. So the price of electricity is initially determined by four different factors: the price of oil, other energy, the rainfall in Norway and the price of electricity abroad. So all of these things, together with the demand for power, lead to the price you set here in Norway. The charge is only part of the costs and costs to consumers, and so it is that a fee would partially go to consumers and partly to manufacturers, just as all charges do. And I know that Gjermund Hageseter has taken economic education and very well knows these things. Thus, a reduction in the fee will only partially go to consumers, but will lead to a much larger profit in the power industry. And when we know that the problem and the starting point for the price, and for the rise in the price, is the scarcity of power, we also know that the price of power would go up and overall not benefit consumers at all. The proposal of the Progress Party is therefore a bad proposal which would not be of any benefit to consumers at all. High electricity prices and large fluctuations in electricity prices are therefore a consequence of the policies of the Progress Party, which they are now desperately trying to remedy with bad instruments. We're concerned with the electricity price because it hits a lot of people with bad advice. Therefore, the Government, with a large-scale effort to be made by the Minister of Oil and Energy later this year, will make a major effort to develop alternative energy through increased production of alternative energy. That's one component. The second component is that we have to make more effort on energy savings, so that we can help people save electricity costs. The third is that we have to do a decent job of making sure that households that are currently using electricity for heating have access to other types of heating in their homes. This applies to the investment of heat pumps, to the investment in bioenergy, and to the investment in waterborne heat, on which there is a large-scale investment in Sweden, but where we have come very short in Norway. We're going to do this. These are good proposals, as opposed to the bad proposals of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-16.ana.ud534e980	The representative, Mr Holmås, has now presented the majority of the Committee's views on this proposal in an exemplary manner. I will just add a few more comments to the matter itself. The main cause of high electricity prices in Norway per year. today's date is, as Heikki Holmås says, a lack of power in the market. We import more expensive power from abroad, because we don't have enough of our own. Here I can just say that, unlike the previous government, this government takes this matter very seriously. It is also a little strange, if you can say so, that the Progress Party supported the previous government, which did not lift a finger and did not do too much in the previous period – and now we are there today. The working party is concerned with power and electricity prices, and there are several instruments in use or to be used to alleviate the current situation. Firstly, existing gas power plant concessions shall be continued. In addition, there is a concession on the Tent Goods, where we have also said that the State should be involved in the financing of cleaning. As the representative, Holmås, is working under pressure to put in place a new regime to increase access to new renewable energy. But what is not relevant, however, is the construction of nuclear power plants in Norway, as we have heard others suggest earlier, last week. I can't help saying that in many ways I think that some of these proposals from the Progress Party are a bit funny, whether it's about a variable tax regime on fuel, as we heard earlier this year, or it's about the electricity charge. Those of us who operate up against the real economic world could have resorted to a lot of polemics and come up with many festive examples of how this would turn out. But since it's May 17th tomorrow and people want to go home, I'll leave it in this round. Of course, I'm worried about people who have bad advice, who will wear and wear out when the power prices get high. But this has to be solved in other ways, for example. through the measures that both Heikki Holmås and I have been involved in, and not by reducing the revenue to the community, as the Progress Party suggests, especially when we do not know whether these tax reductions will fully benefit consumers in Norway. I think I'll end it, and then we're excited to hear what the reason is for this being a smart suggestion in this game.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-16.ana.ud534e995	First, I would like to link some comments to the article from the narrators of the case, who switched to the large heights today and blamed on the Progress Party because we have high power prices. Of course, it is completely wrong, and the SV representative Heikki Holmås should understand that. I think we've been in an unlikely bad position in this country, when the power generation of Norway has come in such a situation that in a normal year we're dependent on importing power from abroad. So there's one thing that helps, and it's building up more power in Norway. It has been one of the proponents of the Progress Party, while SV has opposed it. So it's turning everything upside down when SV, who has been an opponent of power expansion in Norway, blames the Progress Party, who has tried to get new power projects started when it comes to both gas and water power to improve the power balance and thus get the price down. Now we have high power prices – especially this year earlier. In the first quarter, the electricity prices of consumers were 47.1 pst. higher than they were in the same period last year. This has led to a reduction in purchasing power, and it is primarily those with poor and weak economies who, in relation to the other groups, use the most to buy and consume electricity for. While these people are getting poorer purchasing power, the government has raised extra money – 4 billion kroner I have seen – both because of taxes and because of ownership. Most power companies are eight of the public. That is also the background to this proposal. When the state spends extra money at the same time as the consumers, especially those who have the worst economics, we think it's natural that we spend some of the extra dollars that the government gets in because of the high electricity price, to reduce the electricity charges to consumers, so that especially those with the most needy economy are not put into such a bad situation. We are also overconfident that such a reduction will mainly benefit consumers. Now, what we're recording is that this starts with the SV and the government's party going into doubt. Then I just want to refer to a report that was prepared by three researchers from the SSB, who have gone through this very thoroughly. I would suggest that the government party in particular read this report. It's obvious that none of the first two people had the word here have read the report. However, the report concludes as follows: ‘We therefore conclude that almost the entire tax reduction falls to consumers in terms of reduced electricity prices, both in the short and long term.’ Of course, this also makes sense. For it is not that a price change in a small country such as Norway, with 4.6 million inhabitants, should significantly affect the price in the whole Nordic market, which is again linked to Russia, Germany and Poland. That is why this proposal is a good one. It will cost the state no more than it expected when a decision was taken on the 2006 state budget. This will also lead to consumers being given the purchasing power that accommodating the state budget for 2006. By using these extra revenues to reduce the electricity charge, many, especially those with the worst economy, will have their economy fixed. That is why this is a very good proposal. Of course, it disappoints me that especially the two who have spoken for now, both Heikki Holmås and Torgeir Mikalsen, do not support the proposal, and so they do not want to correct the economy of those with a weak economy in this country. It's okay to take note of that. Finally, I would like to make the proposal from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-16.ana.ud534e1017	The representative of Gjermund Hageseter has drawn up the proposal to which he refers.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-16.ana.ud534e1020	The right is in the majority of this case. I want to pay tribute to the rapporteur on the matter, who has given us an excellent insight into the blessings of the market mechanisms, or I do not want to say exactly blessings when it comes from the SV, but how price formation works in relation to offers. When that is said, I will not stick under the chair that instead of shooting at the Progress Party, the representative Holmås and SV should look more into himself and what they do, and not least not do, on the offer side. Because that's the expansion that's needed, there's more power that's needed. It is quite right, as the representative Holmås says, that with more water there will be more power, and prices will sink. That's our biggest problem. But otherwise, I think he has a surprisingly good insight into how the market works. So I just want to say one thing: it's something that can help not least the most difficult if we get a severe power crisis, and it's housing support, which is an effective and effective remedy. To this end, I would like to point out, from the budgetary position of last autumn, that the use of housing aid should be considered in such a situation. Otherwise, as I said, we support the majority.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-16.ana.ud534e1033	I only have a brief comment, because the vote and the statements by the rapporteur do very well for what is also the Government's view on this matter. So I just have a few comments about some things that have been going on in the debate so far. First of all, it's not that we can necessarily produce ourselves out of a lack of electricity. It's just that we have to housekeepers with the power we have, in another way. In particular, there are very many of us that use electricity, some of the purest power you can get, for direct heating, and that's a very little wise way to stand up. So we have to do more things: we have to produce new renewable energy. There we still have a long way to go in Norway, but the Soria Moria statement is very ambitious. We also have to make sure that housekeepers use electricity in such a way that we do not use it for heating, but that we use other sources for heating. Then we will be in a situation where we have a better composition of what is energy consumption in Norway. These are questions that the Government is working on. We're familiar with the Storting, and we'll come back as soon as we're ready.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-16.ana.ud534e1042	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-16.ana.ud534e1045	I have a very quick and simple question for the Minister of Finance. In a letter to the Committee, the Minister of Finance states that an electricity tax reduction will only be offset by a corresponding increase in power prices and thus will not be passed on to consumers at all. According to the figures I have seen, among others: from the SSB, the current has a price elasticity of minus 0,05. That means that one percent increase in the current price results in a decrease in consumption of 0.05, and vice versa. This means that a change in the electricity charge will result in a marginal change in the electricity consumption. Then I ask, what kind of price elasticity does the Minister of Finance think about electricity, when she manages to claim that it will actually be a price adjustment that compensates for the electricity tax reduction and would like to do so?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-16.ana.ud534e1054	I don't think I'm going to do any math for the representative here on the standing foot. But the thing that is clearly related is that if you go into a market where there is scarcity, and where there is still a great demand for this product, a reduction in charges in itself will not necessarily benefit the customer, but just as much so that the profits of the power companies that offer power go up. It's a simple logic, and that's what the answer is. And it's very hard to figure out. In that case, any tax reduction and the application of it could be applied much more effectively to housing support measures to those most affected by the increase in the cost of electricity.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-16.ana.ud534e1064	I think it's a little strange that the Minister of Finance has no account attached to these claims that come up here. I also found it a little strange that a claim that a reduction in taxes in Norway, with 4.6 million inhabitants, should affect the electricity price in the whole Nordic market about as much as the reduction in taxes, and not only in the Nordic market, but also in Poland, Russia and Germany. I want a little bit more of that from the Minister of Finance. It is absolutely contrary to what these researchers from the SSB have expected, and they have gone through these issues thoroughly. So I want an in-depth study from the Minister of Finance: how can you claim that a tax reduction in Norway will affect the price of the entire Nordic market?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-16.ana.ud534e1071	The President will remind you that all speeches must be made through the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-16.ana.ud534e1074	I have not gone in and looked at the calculations from the Statistical Central Bureau that the representative here refers to. But it is that the price of electricity in the Nordic market is set in a market. Norwegian electricity enters the same market, and even if we reduce the tax on Norwegian energy, price fixing could still be affected, regardless of what a tax reduction would be. This is the case when you have passed the Energy Act and have a common Nordic market. If the representative needs more detailed calculations behind this, I'd like to get back to it. The representative can only send me a written question.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-16.ana.ud534e1081	No more words have been asked for a line. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-16.ana.ud534e1086	It is with regret that I have now seen that we have a finance minister in the country who does not even understand elementary economic relations. Price elasticity must be fundamental when discussing how tax changes will affect the consumption of people. Here we see that the Minister of Finance has not understood that low price elasticity means that demand is not affected to a great extent, even if the charge or price level change. It is an essential and fundamental part of the whole debate, of course, because if you have a price elasticity that makes consumption change significantly by a marginal change in charge or price, it affects consumption. But if this is the case, as the SSB and Statnett say, that you have an inelastic demand, it means that you don't change the consumption even with relatively large price changes. And that's exactly what we see. Even when prices went up the ceiling a few years ago, the electricity consumption changed only a few percent. It shows that people don't have alternatives in the short term. Therefore, it does not benefit that several of the members of the government parties come and say that we should get more renewable energy, we should get heat pumps and an additional measure. The problem is that those solutions don't come into place in years. How do you defend this against those who have problems paying their current bills today? We need to be able to distinguish between short-term solutions that go on the costs people face today and what are long-term measures to improve the power balance and thus get the electricity market fixed in the long term. It's a little interesting when even SV appears to be a force fighter. But where are the proposals? It's talking about renewable energy. The Energy Minister's proposal on renewable energy has been mentioned for three months, and it should be right around the corner three months ago! In a few weeks' time, the proposal comes to the Stortinget, said Enoxen. Three months have passed since he said, and there is little reason to believe that, even if it comes before summer, it will be treated before summer, because we cannot be irresponsible. Gas framework conditions are uncertain, regulatory responsibility for gas is uncertain and renewable energy is uncertain. Statnet doesn't even get the money to expand the mains, as we need. The red-greens have simply not promoted a single proposal that underpins the promise to fix the power balance, so that we can in the long run get a power price that is to live with. When Stortinget dealt with the Worm Lange expansion three years ago, the other batches were not even concerned with mentioning the power balance in More and Romesdal. Only SV mentioned it, and it was in fear that gas power stations would be built. It was the only SV that was concerned about, and not that we were going to fix the power balance in any other way. It is no good now to come and talk about many large-scale actions that will help us 10–15 years in advance, when the proposals have not even been promoted on the Stortinget. We're going to have to get a fix on the electricity price today. Reducing the electricity charge is the best measure we can take at the main hall, and at least it is not useful to have a finance minister who does not understand what price elasticity is all about.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-16.ana.ud534e1101	I was going to save myself for taking the word, but I later found out that I had to do some adult education for the Progress Party, as I did for the entire previous period, and explain to them what they are actually doing. It is true that this proposal is also a proposal with one real purpose, namely to get votes to create a society different from the Nordics are proud of, and the UN says is the best thing in the world. However, I should like to address in concrete terms the issue raised by the representatives of the Progress Party. The electricity market in Norway is twofold. It's a web part and a manufacturing part. In 2003 – when the Progress Party was involved in the fact that the previous government put labourers at the door of industry to sell the electricity to the maximum bidder, and the electricity price was over DKK 1 per person. kWh – we had a strangely high power price, because the grid was collapsing. Then we had a 10 pst reduction in power consumption in Norway. Then the question becomes to the Progress Party: If the Storting had gone in and removed VAT and electricity tax, which they then talked so much about, what would the consequence be? Well, maybe we had an increase in the price of electricity at 10 p.m., and then it could actually get dark around in Norway's country. It was the Progress Party that primarily glorified the Energy Act when it was adopted in Stortinget. The working party and SV were together to say that Statkraft must have a discovery obligation, so that in the future we will make sure that we have enough power. We were shocked at that. As a result, SV voted against the entire Energy Act. The Labour Party was involved in moving it forward, but we have always pointed out that this will lead to a deficit in power, while the Progress Party said in the debate that when we get more competition on the market, the electricity price will of course fall. No, it's not like that. A market works if it's a commodity, and it's a buyer. If there are too few goods and too many buyers, the price will go up. There's basic learning in economics, and it should also try the Progress Party to get into. But I now realize that it might not be the big dream of the Progress Party to get involved in economic reality, because then they might also have had to have a different budget balance, which we are dealing with here in the Stortinget. But it is primarily the Progress Party that has glorified the Energy Act. They can only read the debate from the time the law was passed here in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-16.ana.ud534e1114	It is well recognised that the electricity market is much worse than many theorists hoped for when a liberalized market. There are a number of physical barriers that limit the transfer of electricity to different areas. It is also the case that one cannot start electricity production without being subject to public authority authorisation. There are at all very many things that show that the electricity market is not working on supply and demand. Once one has changed the power market, one has given those who have power in the market the opportunity to exploit their market power. They also do, which leads to a dramatic rise in prices. This is a fact that the Progress Party is fully aware of, I hope. They will then also be aware that the low price elasticity of electricity in the sea, because people need electricity in any case, will necessarily lead to the possibility for market actors to charge a higher market price, which for consumers will not lead to any other electricity price than the one we see today. I think it is quite bold of the Progress Party in this matter and in the case area to keep such a high tab. One criticises the Government for not producing more energy, and especially renewable energy. One criticises the over-allocation of the state budget, and one criticises the excessive price of the flow. It is true that if you are to get something done, you must, among other things, some pay. It's pretty obvious that the situation we're in will mean that there's going to be high electricity prices in the future. It has to be financed in a way. What's going to be the challenge is to create a system that can help you shield significant groups from that price increase. Therefore, the proposal for a two-price arrangement on electricity is not less topical today than before. The Progress Party has a credibility problem in relation to the ideology of supply and demand a forerunner when one goes against what is the position of Government and government parties in this matter here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-16.ana.ud534e1127	There is a need to clarify some obvious misunderstandings, which the representative of Klungland in particular would like to make. For example, it might be interesting to follow up the debate on what Klungland himself said when he realized that there would be a demand for CO2 cleaning at gas power plants. Then he said, "The prices will go on the roof, the industry will move out." That's the policy of the government now running. It shall require CO2 cleaning at gas power plants. As far as the power market is concerned, I fully agree with Lundtigen. Of course, a market must operate both on the demand side and on the supply side. The problem is that you haven't had it lately. One hasn't had it in 15 years. With regard to permission to increase power generation, it has been strangled by politicians, so that there is a free market on the demand side, but not on the supply side. So you also get an artificial pricing, which means that the prices are much higher than you would otherwise have. Then I refer again to the representative Klungland, who has voted against the full development of Sauda, but halved it, and voted against a lot of hydropower projects. At least 5 TWh has been rejected for hydropower projects at Stortinget only in the last 10 years. In addition, we have so unreasonable demands for gas power plants that it is not being built. It is not useful to point out that one should contribute to CO2 cleaning when everyone says that if not the state takes 100 pst. of that cost, it is not relevant to build anything at all. Then there will be a misguided policy by the Government. Then, in the short term, only the electricity charge can do something directly with the electricity bill to people. Then it is perfectly legitimate to propose to reduce it, at least when the price elasticity is so low on the product that it will not have a particular impact on the demand for consumption, and thus have no particular impact on the price curve. I have not yet heard a single one from the government parties argue that what I say about price elasticity is wrong. If you do, I'm going to go into a debate about whether it's right to reduce the electricity charge. But as long as you can't show anything else, you'll end up with that view, because it's irrelevant in the debate. Come with numbers and discuss numbers, and don't come with visuals. When it comes to increased power generation, I'm going to join in and vote for almost everything you're proposing, but at least you have to come up with proposals for the Storting. It has not yet come – eight months after you came to power.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-16.ana.ud534e1149	The President would point out that the number should go through the President, that there should be no direct speech. No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Food, see page 2239]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-16.ana.ud534e1171	The Norwegian economy is doing well. In recent years, low interest rates and high real wages have contributed to strong growth in household purchasing power. Improvements in the labour market and continued low price growth will result in real wages and salaries remaining relatively high in the coming years. This is good. It gives each of us increased opportunities and greater degree of economic freedom. This also means that many more now have the opportunity to save and place money untraditionally on a much larger scale than before. It helps to secure the individual's economic future, while at the same time providing access to capital for business. But then the money cannot be put on the coffin bed. They must be placed in banks and financial institutions. Traditionally, ordinary people have saved in their right bank account. It's safe, the money is always liquid, but the return is not very high, especially with today's interest rate level. Investment in securities is a good alternative. For various reasons, this is to a relatively large extent traded in Norway through a sales link. This means that banks and other financial institutions sell composite savings packages to private customers. The combined term is «structured products». The product the customer hears about has many names. Often, there is a share saving with a guarantee or bank savings with a share return. Common to many of these products is that they are often complicated and difficult to understand for the customer. In the sales situation, profit opportunities are exaggerated at the same time as the risks are sub-communicated. The fees and costs are often hidden, and many are persuaded to borrow money for these products. When, at the same time, many people think they're sitting face to face with an unhilded and neutral adviser, the sale is highly problematic. How big is the problem? The magazine Your Money claims that $50 billion is placed on the wrong premises. I can't go good for this number, but that the extent is large, I'm not in doubt about it. The securities market is well regulated and is subject to a sound follow-up. This market must function well in order to secure the capital of business and investment in a safe and orderly manner. The securities market is essential as an investment market in a market economy like ours. In this context, the securities market may be regarded as the stage of production. The resale by the financial corporations can be seen as being at the point of sale. I am of the opinion that there is a need for legislation and a follow-up in terms of sales, which is more at the level of production. Today, there are very variable requirements for the production of information on the characteristics of what is sold and the costs of what is sold. This is not the case in the securities market. The objective must be full transparency of commissions and costs even at the point of sale. This means that we need to put in place the law that the Credit Authority has called for, so that they can impose all costs on operators. I am thinking in particular of the Securities Trading Act. Another problem with this type of product is related to the sales situation. Marketing is partly aggressive. There are several relationships that lead to it. A significant factor is that customers are often visited by the seller. The bank complaint has pointed this out in certain cases, where the customer has received support in his complaint, because he was in the bank in a completely different business than to invest. Another aspect is that the bank employee that the customer meets is called the consultant. The customer then gets the impression of meeting a person who is unhindered and without any self-interest of any kind, and that they give free advice. I am of the clear opinion that everyone would be better served if these were instead called sellers, which they actually are. The customer will then understand what the meeting is about, the sale of products, where the bank or institution makes money if a capital position occurs. Gunn Wærsted, Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Financial Industry’s Main Organisation, has himself taken this up. I hope that the member companies in FNH will take her to the floor and change the job title from the consultant to the seller. Furthermore, she has been involved in training. I also believe that training on the securities market, proper customer treatment and ethical awareness are essential if this market is to function properly. The initiative of the industry, although increasing schooling in this type of competence, is therefore a valuable contribution. But financial institutions cannot hide behind eager sellers when it is revealed that customers have an experience of being led behind the lights in a sales situation. Then the company's management must also take responsibility. In addition, many suggest that the permanence shown by some institutions is in place. Then it becomes too easy to push the employee as a customer manager in front of him. Therefore, I believe that the company itself and the individual seller must have a necessary objectivity in place in their meeting with the customer. It is the credit supervision that has supervisory powers over financial institutions. They themselves point out in their annual report that more needs to be done to ensure better information for household customers entering this market — a market that until recently had been reserved to professional investors. A survey of the credit supervision carried out by different financial institutions confirms that the products appear to be complex and not transparent in terms of returns and that remuneration and price are not sufficiently reflected. Increased focus on consumer protection is an important tool for making this market work better than today. An internet portal where consumers can obtain help and guidance in this market has been proposed. But I don't think an Internet portal itself will be enough, because a good part of these customers are initially not in a conscious consumer situation. Thus, it would not be natural to visit such an Internet site for many. That's a lot of money we're talking about here, and that's a lot of profit for many of the actors. The good functioning of this market is important. It is important that individual consumers have a certain degree of protection. It is important that competition operates effectively and that prices and commissions are fully transparent. It is important for the reputation of the industry as a whole that it is ensured against unprofessional operators who exploit lightly deceived customers. The authorities have a job to do in this market. The size of the bill must ensure that the law is crystal clear that all costs are incurred. The Ministry of Finance and Credit Supervision must jointly ensure that the legislation is enforced and that consumers are safeguarded, and operators must experience that they are in a fair competitive position. Moreover, the industry itself should be conscious of its ethical responsibilities. Gunn Wærsted expressed this in a good way in his anniversary to the industry earlier in the spring. I end by quoting her: ‘There is a trend towards short-termity in parts of today’s financial markets that conflict easily with long-term relationships with customers, which is such an important part of financial activity. Negative reputation may constitute a significant cost, although the outcome may not necessarily be seen on the bottom line in the next quarter.»
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-16.ana.ud534e1210	First, I would like to thank the representative Aasen Agdestein for promoting this interpellation on a topic that is very important. It's a market that we know is much bigger now than a few years ago. I would also like to thank her for quoting Gunn Wærsted diligently, because it is clear that the attitudes of the industry itself are very important in relation to how to run self-discipline. Then it's the responsibility of public authorities to make sure that we have a law that also plays a part in it. Recently, there has been criticism of the marketing of so-called composite products by the financial industry. Both the credit surveillance surveys and the various samples carried out by investigative journalists indicate that part of the information provided for the sale of composite products is not good enough. This applies to both the written and oral information, and the customer does not get a good overview of the transactions he is about to enter. What has raised questions is whether the financial industry and financial advisers and brokers are sufficiently distinguishing between sales, advice and mediation. Therefore, the text of the interview is today a timely issue. For the best possible answer to what the interpellant takes up, I have divided the answer into three main headings. One is the need for information requirements. The second is the question of concession obligations and, finally, the question of what measures are planned to ensure that insurance brokers provide independent advice. When using the term ‘combined products’ for the provision of financial institutions to customers, a package of financial instruments etc. The products are composed of a deposit part and a return part. Two main types of composite products have been developed: stock index bonds and stock yield deposits. The products have a predetermined maturity. Another important feature of the products is that the minimum return is known before the customer invests in the product. At the same time, in the event of a favourable outcome, the customer may obtain a return above the minimum return. The investor’s right to more return may be linked to the development of one or more indices, the development of some particular shares or the development of one or more currencies. In a simple manner, the AIFM invests one part of the client’s funds in a safe investment and one part of the funds in a derivative that shall yield returns in relation to, for example: the development of the main index of Oslo Stock Exchange. From being an almost unknown savings product a few years ago, credit supervision figures show that by the end of the first quarter of 2006, nearly DKK 50 billion had been invested in composite products issued by banks in the Norwegian market. To illustrate the growth rate, 36 billion DKK was invested in composite products by the end of the third quarter of 2004. So it's a huge growth. The growth in, and subsequently the volume of, funds invested in composite products implies that both the financial industry and the authorities must have a conscious relationship with how composite products are marketed and sold. Financial institutions and investment firms are subject to legislation requiring clients to be provided with the necessary information when providing services and selling products. When financial institutions provide their services, information on interest, commissions and other prices shall be provided. The disclosure requirements are not specific to the coin of composite products, and the general structure of the rules means that it is by far up to the individual financial institution to take a concrete position on the form used when providing information on interest, commissions and other prices to the customer. However, in order to provide further guidance, the Credit Authority has prepared a circular providing more specific recommendations on the information to be provided on complex products. The purpose of the information recommendations in the Credit Supervision Circular is to enable the customer to compare the composite product with other financial investments, including other composite products. Financial institutions and investment firms meeting the requirements of the circular may be assured that they provide information sufficient to meet the regulatory requirements. The credit supervision carried out in 2005 an examination of the written information provided for the sale of composite products. The summary of the study of the credit supervision includes: information on the expected returns and costs of the products is not sufficiently clear. This is a clear indication that the information provided is not always good enough and that the recommendations of the credit supervision are not properly followed up by the undertakings. In view of this, the Ministry of Finance wishes to strengthen the obligation to provide information. The Ministry of Finance therefore sent on 19 April of this year a letter to the Banking Authority asking the Banking Authority to consider preparing a draft regulation on composite products, possibly also proposing new legal frameworks for such regulations. The Ministry has asked for the credit supervision assessment during June of this year. The interpellant raised the question: what is it you call when you appear to be a customer who advises? If you appear to be an advisor, I think it may give you a sense that you are an unhindered person who is helpful in guiding a customer, and not a seller who has an interest in the customer buying that particular product. I therefore think that it should be for reasons of cleanliness that one should be described as a seller hereafter when one is in the situation that one actually actively sells such a product. In this case, it may be mentioned in the context of the Credit Authority’s advice on how to follow up on this. Any regulation would require more detailed requirements on how to comply with the information requirements imposed by law. For the banks, as we now see, we have sufficient powers to establish regulatory requirements on the information to be provided when selling composite products. However, I am prepared to return to the Storting, if necessary, to ask for further legal remedies in order to be able to impose more specific information requirements on investment firms. This is also part of the task assigned to the credit supervision. In the light of the studies carried out by the Credit Authority, it may be appropriate to provide detailed information on the costs, expected returns and risks of investments in composite products. As regards the detailed assessment of the information which the authorities should, where appropriate, require undertakings to provide in the case of the sale of composite products, I would await the advice of the Credit Authority. Many of the issues related to the sale and advice of composite products are general in the sense that they can also be raised in relation to other financial products. Before I come to any general requirements for financial advice that apply, I would like to point out that banks also offer loans to finance complex products for consumers. For a lender it may be good to sell complex products that are financed by loans, and I do not doubt that financial institutions that do so have assessed both the profitability and the risk of providing such loans. In my opinion, the financial institution should also use the knowledge to inform the investor about the effect of the borrowing cost on the return and risk of the investment. In general, financial advice has not been further regulated by specific legislation either in Norway or in the EEA territory. However, investment advice is regarded as a related service under Section 8-1, first paragraph, point (b) of the Securities Trading Act. 5th@item: inlistbox It implies that an investment firm providing investment advice shall notify the credit supervision thereof. Such a related service is not subject to concession obligations under the Securities Trading Act and therefore no concession is required to provide investment advice on financial instruments. In the light of the new Investment Directive, a proposal for a new Securities Trading Act is subject to consultation, with a deadline of 29 May 2006. The bill proposes that financial advice be converted into a concessional investment service. We'll get back to this in case. Only a brief final remark on the subject of insurance brokers. In insurance, and in particular in the business market, there is a long tradition of using insurance brokers to help the customer make decisions. I can come back to that at a later stage. If I can just briefly summarize these measures that are being launched. Firstly, the credit supervision has been asked to come back during June 2006 with an assessment of whether regulations should be drawn up in order to improve information on composite products. We have mandated the Banking Law Commission to investigate legal requirements by 31 October 2006 which impose an absolute ban on insurance brokers from receiving commissions from insurance companies. The third is that we have sent on consultation proposals to make financial advice for a concession-coated investment service under the Securities Trading Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-16.ana.ud534e1261	I am very pleased that the Minister of Finance has given as good and complementary a response as she does, and that she announces that action will be taken in this area. What someone might ask is why it's so important that politicians have to go beyond what we've seen in the last few years. For me, this is about managing the money of others is a serious matter in itself. Anyone who borrows money for others to invest them must be sure that this is happening properly. Point 2. I believe that this market has become very large. There is so much money managed, and this is about as large a sum as some take out in dividends in some of these companies – up to 60-70 million. kr per year – it is obvious that profits are high. Thirdly, as politicians, we are responsible for the optimum functioning of competition in the financial market. Stakeholders must experience that competition is healthy and fair and that there is full transparency about all costs. Only then can the customer inform himself and choose the best offer. In addition, I am afraid that too sloppy a regulatory framework provides room for unprofessional actors. This, in turn, can easily lead to financial scandals, and we should do everything we can to avoid such a situation. I therefore believe that sound regulatory design and effective market surveillance should take place as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-16.ana.ud534e1274	As the representative Aasen Agdestein is in, this is an area where the Government and the Ministry of Finance are committed to following very closely. That's also why we've given this assignment to the Credit Authority. There may be many signs in what has been revealed by the press, for example: in the case of commissions and the type of store for financial institutions to sell these types of products, which indicate that there is insufficient competition, lack of transparency in relation to the conditions, and that it is difficult for customers to orient themselves and compare the different products. There's also something about the way you talk about this: almost as a guaranteed form of savings. At the moment that a customer may suddenly get into trouble and have to take out the savings before the contract period is over, you can be in a very surprising situation if the customer has not fully understood what you were going through. If you have also had the feeling of being confronted by an unhindered consultant, who was actually an effective seller, then you may have further come into a situation where you entered into a contract that you did not understand. Since this is a product that now has an amount of SEK 50 billion, it also provides an additional alertness. Of course, if the financial industry itself is aware of this and sets high ethical requirements and standards for itself, it helps. If there is a need for more up-to-date and better legislation here, we will return to the Stortinget with that. In addition, I believe that the more they write about it, the more the customer becomes aware that others have felt cheated by entering into similar contracts, and the more you are informed about what kind of products exist. The three instruments should be very far from informing customers, and their need for information when such a comprehensive decision is to be taken.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-16.ana.ud534e1285	There's reason to give the representative Marianne Aasen Agdestein credit to address this serious topic in today's interpellation. It is serious, as the interpellant said, to manage the money of others, and it is worth noting that unfortunately we have seen examples of some companies acting far beyond the ethically sound in the way they have handled the money of others and acted towards their customers. I believe it is important to underline three aspects, which were also discussed by the interpellant: Firstly, all costs must be known. There must be full transparency of commissions and costs. It is important that such transparency be imposed, as is the case in other financial market contexts, and, as the Council of State also pointed out, it is important to have both knowledge of the costs and the risks involved, both in relation to the investment risk involved and the risk of withdrawing from the agreement at an earlier date than initially foreseen. The second is distinguishing between advice and sales. I think it is quite right, as both the interpellant and the Council of State have had to say, that a customer is dealing with a consultant in many ways as if it were a neutral party seeking to provide the customer's best. Then it is completely wrong if the so-called advisor has his own sale in favour of himself and/or his institution for the eye. That's why it's important to distinguish between these functions, and I think it's a good idea, as the interpellant has suggested, that there must be a requirement here to use the title of the seller and not the adviser. The third important point is the question of what knowledge the seller has. There will often be large amounts of money to be managed – at least large amounts of money for the individual customer – and this must be done in a reassuring way, by having knowledge of the relationships he gives the customer the impression of having knowledge of. Therefore, there is reason to consider the requirements for the seller’s competence to act in this market. I noticed that the Council of State here has started work to assess concession requirements related to the business. In this I also assume that the relevant competence requirements are assessed for those who act. I would like to ask the Minister of Finance, as the interpellant says, to develop a stricter law and, above all, to develop stricter responses to those who act unethical. I am pleased that the Minister of Finance announces that she is following this up, and that she has started an important work on it. Let me also, as many people have been involved, stress that it is important and positive that the industry itself has taken hold of it, among other things. through the Annual Conference of the Principal Organisation of Finance and the commitment of the head of the FNH, Gunn Wærsted, and the clear signals she has given to the industry. I assume that the Council of State will come back to Stortinget with these questions in an appropriate way, and I feel absolutely sure that the interpellant will have a keen eye on all developments in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-16.ana.ud534e1302	Yes, it is serious to manage other people's money. I therefore hope the Council of State also remembers all the times she limits how to manage the people's money in the State pension fund. As a consumer party, the Progress Party is committed to ensuring that all trade takes place in a genuine competitive market and that all information is available to all at the same time. These are fundamental assumptions in a market-driven economy. The Progress Party also believes that when the above-mentioned premises are satisfied, it is up to each consumer to use his own discretion and discretion, to use his own money in the most appropriate way for himself and his own. In recent times, there have been more stories in the media where more people believe they have led the way in the light of consultants in management companies. If it is that people are being led behind the light due to a lack of information about the product they are buying, this is a breach of one of the premises of a market-driven economy, as I mentioned in the introduction. It is not particularly controversial to claim that it should not be allowed to trick potential customers with insufficient information, we all agree. What we're discussing is how far this information obligation should go, and how much responsibility it has for each individual consumer. The Progress Party considers that there is every reason to oblige bank and insurance company advisers to inform about all aspects of any savings. But when the interpellant is concerned about whether it's called adviser or seller, we should probably look at our own house, whether we should call ourselves sellers and not politicians, because we're all sellers at some level. Everyone who's in active work sells some kind of product. That there should be a special limit for those who work in banks becomes relatively meaningless, and it is certainly naive to believe that bank advisors are there to give unwary advice – they are there to make money for themselves and the bank. It's quite obvious. If you thought it was different when you went into a bank, you should think about it again. Information must be provided on all aspects of a form of savings, i.e.: the information shall relate to establishment costs, operating costs and termination costs. This may be particularly true in the case of cessations, when one has to make savings, many people feel that costs are high — for example. if you go out too early according to what you had agreed and you were not informed about how long you had to spend in a savings form. It must also be made clear. Now it is not necessary to get under the impression that the high returns of recent years have motivated financial advisors to give more and more advanced advice, which has helped to conceal real costs. Furthermore, it should be a prerequisite for the risk of the investment to be communicated so that the customer can draw the necessary conclusions with regard to his own economy. Where the above assumptions are based, it must be clear that the remaining responsibility rests with the customer. Indeed, some customers of financial services may be tempted by potentially high returns and listen a little less enthusiastically to the risk assessment presented. When things go wrong in such cases, neither banks, insurance companies nor the authorities are going to come running to rescue him from an economic crisis. So for the Progress Party, the following principles are underpinned: Open competition, free flow of information – at the same time. All costs and risks must be communicated to the customer. Once these premises have been reached, the customer himself is financially responsible for any losses.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-16.ana.ud534e1319	Let me first give the honor to the interpellant to have addressed this matter. It's important for two reasons. First of all, it's because – as she says initially – all things go a lot better in this country, and each of us and even more get more opportunities to save. But there is also another side to this, and it is that saving also in these so-called structured papers is a financing of Norwegian business. So the reasons here must be on the one hand to take care of us as customers – we should primarily take care of ourselves, but then we should also have a good code that provides security. On the other hand, this must not deter the possibility of financing for business. That's the two things that have to be in place. I'm going to bring up some relationships that the interpellant was in. First of all, the distinction between the seller and the consultant – which has been discussed by many – applies. I'm not so sure it's a very important shade. There's something about people feeling safe in banks and financial institutions. I think we need to have a code that makes people feel safe, whether it's advisors or sellers, when they get to these institutions. As I have understood the industry, we are working well to set minimum standards both for financial advisors and for sellers. It has been incorporated into enterprises, into training; it has been taught ethics. At all, you know that you're in an important and difficult area for many. I also think that actual knowledge is important. These are complicated papers that make big demands on those who are going to handle this. On the other hand, I don't think that's how the interpellant expresses, that sky-high profit for someone needs to be some problem. A healthy and good competition in which the costs and information on commissions are transparent will mean that some will still be able to serve well and more well. But I don't think it matters if customers get the security and a good location, and business gets the funding they need. Now the Finance Minister has said that she has written letters to the Credit Authority and that they will come up with draft regulations. That's good. We'll see what comes out of it. The Securities Markets Regulators Committee, which is probably called something that is so far and so difficult, has presented a draft legislative proposal that is out for consultation. There's one relationship there that I want to focus on. It's the relationship to the world around us. We cannot and must not have rules that are different from those in the EU and in the world with which we should be in contact. For that very reason, I would like to warn you a little bit about a debate that is directed very towards high commissions, large profits, etc. for the institutions. Just give us the security through the legislation, and a healthy and good competition will handle this for both customers and businesses.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-16.ana.ud534e1337	I'm always a little surprised when I hear the representative Christian Tybring-Gjedde's posts. But I thought at least from my side would explain the distance from the concept of "seller" and his approach, that politicians are sellers. I feel like I'm being trusted. It may be that Christian Tybring-Gjedde feels like the seller, but in that case it will have to pay him. The second thing I find to comment on is the market fundamentalism that I have claimed earlier today that the Progress Party stands for. There are some prerequisites for a well-functioning market, some of which are free flow and an equivalent knowledge of information. My point – and what I see as the interpellant’s points and the Minister of Finance’s point – is that there will always be an asymmetry between the information that an adviser or seller is attached to the product that he is selling, and the position that one is in as a human being who wants someone to manage one’s money in the best possible way. That's the asymmetry we somehow have to weigh up to through requirements and clear conditions of information and disclosure and all these other things and a particular caution. So there's one more thing about this market and this belief, which also had the Fleet, that the market should sort of solve all the problems: only we get a well-functioning enough market, will transaction costs also go down. But it has struck me – and I am convinced of it – that it cannot be like that, simply because we have now seen it in stock trading and trading with other securities. I never stop to be amazed at how much fees it is possible to take in courtship and other things from some brokers of this type of product. That we should have a well-functioning market where transaction costs are pushed down to zero shows the market we live in, that that is actually not the case. But then some of the points that I feel are in the actual interpolation, which I think is important. It's about the honesty that is. This is not just about these structured products, it's about the whole relationship of trust between the individual bank and the individual customer, which is usually based on a long-term relationship. I thought I'd just end up with a little example from the reality here from the Storting. It was a co-founder who got a call from his bank – that was when the interest was at the absolute lowest. She had tied her interest rate, and had a fixed rate of three years, which would go out after two years. He recommended her: here you lose some money every month on fixed interest instead of floating interest. You might want to report the transition to floating rate, and then we'll fix it for you. So it was a call from the bank. She said yes, this sounds very entertaining. Then we sat down and calculated this, and then we found out that even the monthly savings she had, would not outweigh the loss she had by paying in the premium she had to pay to redeem the loan. So this was active marketing to sell a kind of consultancy service that, in sum, ended up losing money. We informed him about this, and we asked him, have you actually calculated this? When he did, she said, "No, this wasn't good, so I understand you don't want it." This says something about the fact that this is not the case when brokers sell a standardised product, and would like to offer this to a broad front vis-à-vis different customers, that this necessarily benefits the individual customer and bank customer. Therefore, it is particularly important to be vigilant in relation to complex products that are in many cases referred to here. This is well-worked by the interpellant, and I wish the Minister of Finance luck in the further work on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-16.ana.ud534e1354	I take the freedom to observe with some pleasure that essentially those who have taken the floor have supported the intention of this interpellation, and I am very pleased about that. Even though the Progress Party is putting in its premises, I believe that much of the same is going on in my own opinion. Nevertheless, I would like to comment on exactly this with the sellers and consultants, because I believe calling myself a consultant in this market gives a false security. When the professional title is misleading rather than indicative, I believe it is time to change it. This with large dividends was also commented on. I have no personal objection that companies pay large dividends to their employees or owners. But the combination of hidden fees, hidden costs and great dividends makes me worried, because then the market doesn't work, and you can suspect that you're milking customers, without them really understanding it themselves. Summing up, I see this debate as the Ministry of Finance and the Credit Authority can be sure that they have solid back coverage in Stortinget to do a solid job on this topic.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-16.ana.ud534e1364	I don't think there is any need to extend this debate beyond what has already been said, because the debate shows that there is a broad political consensus about getting better control and transparency of what this is about, and better clarification of what is the real customer relationship. But at the end of the day it will always be the individual customer who is responsible for his own actions. What we can do is, the information you get, and the way it happens, gives you the best overview possible to make decisions. The interpellant has taken hold of a large market, where we have too many examples of profits for those who sell such complex products, which are very large, and where we have too many examples that someone has gone into a customer relationship where they have not had an idea of what was the back of the medal. So that's what we're working on, and if necessary, I'm coming back to Stortinget with proposals for changes to the law. Anyway, this is going to be a sector that we closely follow.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-16.ana.ud534e1371	That being the case, it is no. 5 completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-16.ana.ud534e1377	The size then goes to voting in case No. Two, three, four.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-16.ana.ud534e1385	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Jan Tore Sanner on behalf of the Advancement Party, Right, Christian People's Party and Left Amendment No. 2, from Jan Tore Sanner on behalf of the Party of Advancement, Right and Left Proposal No. 2, from the Progress Party, Right and Left, to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government of the State Budget for 2007 asks for proposals to increase the tax-free discount on employees’ purchases of shares in their own companies. ‘...
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-16.ana.ud534e1436	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Peter Skovholt Gitmark on behalf of the Progress Party, Right and Left Amendment No. 2, from Peter Skovholt Gitmark on behalf of Right and Left
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-16.ana.ud534e1494	During the debate, Mr Gjermund Hagesetter put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose guidelines to reduce the electricity charge during periods of high electricity prices.’ This proposal will be replaced by the Committee's vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-16.ana.ud534e1516	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-16.ana.ud534e1527	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word under Section 37(a) of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
