ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-14.ana.ud669e31	Honourable co-representatives! Former prime minister and councillor Einar Hole Moxnes died on 20 January, 84 years old. Moxnes grew up on Alstahaug in the North and Bjugn in the South-Trøndelag. He took agricultural education and went to the State School of Small Farm Teachers for one year, before he began as a master sagronomist in Åfjord and Stoksund in 1951. Here also began his political career. He was elected rapporteur in 1955 and had this until 1966. From 1958 to 1966 he was also a member of the County Committee of the Southern Trøndelag. For the first five years, he was president. Moxnes met for the first time at Stortinget as an alternate in 1959. From 1965 to 1968 he met firmly for Per Borten. In 1968 he took over as Minister for Fisheries. He was permanently elected to the Stortinget in 1969, but because of the State Council, he did not meet as a representative until 1971. Following the vote on Norwegian membership of the EC in 1972, Moxne became Minister of Agriculture of the Government of Korvald. Moxnes was appointed to the South Tribute County in 1974 and served for 12 years. In eight of those years he was also a member of the board of Statoil. He has also had a number of public functions and trusts in different organisations. The Moxnes were still and restrained by nature. He was the calm, mindful politician to whom it was listened in party, magnificence and government, and who gained confidence and esteem in the many meetings with the voters around the country. When Moxnes took over as Minister of Fisheries, there was a great deal of unrest in the fishing industry, not least because of the failure in prices of most fishery products. Fishermen in the north and south of the country can measure initially scepticism for the appointment of an agronomist as Minister of Fisheries. However, this scepticism quickly took place when Moxnes met the fishermen at home. He quickly established good and constructive cooperation with the organisations of the fishing industry. It turned out that he was able to put in place exceptional measures to solve acute problems, while being able to implement measures of a more long-term nature. As Minister of Fisheries, Moxnes presented proposals for strengthening and reorganising fisheries research, the establishment of higher fisheries education and guidance services for the fishing industry. Moxnes will be remembered as a very skilled and respected fisheries minister. The Moxnes had artistic skills, which came to terms in painting and wood carving, which he got good time to when he left as a countyman 65 years old. He liked the bench very well. Everyone who got to know Moxnes was filled with respect for the safe, good man – a lukewarm, friendly person that everyone had to be happy about and trust in. We are grateful for the considerable social effort that Einar Hole Moxnes has made – and we are at peace with his memory. The representatives heard the President's commemorative speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-14.ana.ud669e57	The President will propose the election of two presidents for the Stortinges meetings this week – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Sigvald Uppøen Hansen and Gunn Olsen. – Other proposals are not available, and Sigvald Oppebøen Hansen and Gunn Olsen are unanimously elected as presidents of the current week’s meetings.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-14.ana.ud669e77	Effective competition is a key prerequisite for the functioning and benefits of the market for consumers, businesses and society. Competition contributes to increased quality, increased diversity and lower prices both for consumers and for enterprises when they make their purchases. Good competition policy is undoubtedly good consumer policy because it gives customers greater choice and greater power in the market. Competition is also an important tool in the field of nutrition policy. Good competition in Norway strengthens businesses in the face of foreign competitors. Competition ensures good framework conditions for enterprises purchasing goods in Norway. Competition stimulates innovation, product improvement and improvement of production processes. Competition is an important means of achieving a forward-looking, competitive business. In a market economy, it will always be the case that businesses seek maximum profits. The margins increase when competition is weak and businesses will have a clear motivation to restrict competition in their products. If competition is sufficiently restricted, there will be a private monopoly. The dominant position in a market generates large profits for the company, with similar costs and losses for consumers and other purchasers. The right has great faith in a market-based economy and sees the social benefits of the functioning of the market. However, when the market is released freely, it is also necessary to provide a framework for competition so that consumers, the public sector and other enterprises do not suffer injury because individual enterprises secure dominant positions or engage in price cooperation. Relaxation or naive competition policy will in reality mean taking away from the weak party in a market. Competition policy will be under constant pressure. Large enterprises will always argue for exemptions to competition, whether in the interests of business, of employees, of subcontractors of enterprises, of national ownership, of security, or for any other reason to be drawn up in such a discussion. Large enterprises have the resources to promote their views towards politicians and society with a great deal of weight. This is the background to the fact that the Right in the previous magnification period stood in the front line for the adoption of one of Europe’s most stringent competition laws. This is why our state councils went heavily into some individual markets and facilitated active competition for the benefit of consumers and the rest of society. The best example of the functioning of competition policy is the restoration of competition in aviation. There were all elements in place in the form of strong lobbying to avoid competition, justifications in the form of customer, employee, security, national state ownership, etc. However, the fact that the Co-operation Administration was pushed through competition became a major victory for Norwegian aviation and Norwegian air passengers. Prices have fallen, the offer has increased, the dependence on a single company has been reduced. Now both SAS Braathens and Norwegian go with great profits in Norway. The number of passengers travelling on scheduled flights abroad has increased by 25 pst. in the last two years – much more than the general developments in aviation would otherwise indicate. For industry and the non-capital population, competition in aviation is crucial. I don't think anyone in this room wants the monopoly in aviation back, but I know about several parties that spent a long time accepting the measures that were necessary to secure competition. This shows that business and consumers need contextual policy-makers who show action when possible and who are not naive in relation to strong interest groups. In the previous change of words in this Chamber, the government has expressed its commitment to the Competition Act. It is reassuring since the government parties voted against the law when it was adopted in Stortinget in the previous period. Nevertheless, there is reason to question what is the new competition policy of the Government. The issue is hardly mentioned in the Government Declaration and the government parties voted against the Competition Act in the previous period. I have also noticed that the government parties in their comments on this area in the 2006 budget setting use the term ‘active enterprise and competition policy’. It can be understood in several ways. The government has in four months run over four cases from the Competition Authority. The government allowed Statkraft to buy up Trondheim Energie, despite the fact that there was no disagreement with the Competition Authority that the purchase would give Statkraft a dominant position in a market that was temporarily limited by network capacity problems. This is a clear anti-consumer policy in this area. The Government allowed further merger between National Oilwell and Varco, justified by disagreement with the professional judgements of the Competition Authority. The government has recently authorised Prior's purchase of Norgården, which gives Prior 75 pst. market share of eggs in the consumer market, against a crystal clear decision of the Competition Authority based on consumer considerations. In addition, the government has postponed the implementation of free-of-charge charges on trade books, which were a central part of the liberalisation of the industrial agreement. In reality, the book-keeping contract is price cooperation protected by the authorities. The postponement came after lobbying from publishers and to great despair for the student organisations, who have also not received free school books as promised. This, too, is a decision that goes beyond the recommendations of the Competition Authority, while the first three cases I mentioned were a decision reversing decisions taken by the Competition Authority. In the meat and poultry markets, Gilde and Prior have now notified a merger to be considered by the Competition Authority very carefully. It may be a new tone if the supervision takes a negative decision and the Government gets it on its table. We have also registered with some wonder that the Government dropped the public procurement obligation below the tender threshold of NOK 500000 and that it announced in its government statement that it would like to increase the tender threshold. The consequence of this is a reduction in competition for public procurement. About the first government in this area when it joined was to wind up a five-year joint Nordic research project with a framework of 25 million. kr. It might say something about the professional interest in the field of competition. I also think that the government has shown a passive attitude in relation to a framework agreement concluded between twelve municipalities and Microsoft, and that the government gives a passive signal when it is said that this is something that is not possible to enter into as a public authority. I also think that the Government has shown relatively little interest in improving competition in aviation in terms of reliability in relation to cancellation figures, which has been a discussion recently. It is not necessarily a problem that, in individual cases, the Government has a different professional judgement from the Competition Authority. It is also possible to review the Competition Surveillance Decision in individual cases of ‘prince or major societal importance’. But the pattern we have seen after 100 days of new government signals a change in competition policy – a new policy, how large companies easily convince the Government and get special treatment in terms of limited competition on their own market. There is no doubt that consumers will receive a higher price of electricity, a higher price for trade books and a higher price for eggs in accordance with the decisions taken by the Government. I have taken the initiative in this interpellation to get a picture of what will be the competition policy of the new government. I would like to have a debate on what the Government puts in the exceptions contained in the Competition Act, which refers to ‘prince or major societal importance’. I am also interested to hear how the Government will follow up the plans and activities mentioned in the budget proposal in relation to important consumer markets such as electricity supply, the market for dairy products, the grocery market, aviation, the financial industry, the book industry, telecommunications and smaller and local markets. These are markets of great importance to consumers and where the intensity of competition from time to time is limited. I hope the Council of State can give some new signals as to which course to follow in competition policy. I'm afraid that there are now a lot of companies looking at purchase plans, looking at their local markets, and seeing new opportunities to increase their earnings through measures that prevent competition. There will be a thought that we haven't seen in any years, and I think it's important that the government give signals that ensure that companies respect the Competition Act and the Competition Authority. I think it would be a great accident for consumers if we now get a series of purchases that restrict competition in many important consumer fields, and where the government is convinced by lobbyists who ensure the companies special advantage. That's why it's important for this area in the years to come that we get an explanation of whether what we've seen in the first 100 days is a new course, or whether the Government will continue the competition policy that we had in the last period.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-14.ana.ud669e126	I thank the interpellant for this opportunity to say something about the Government's competition policy. When he asks if there will be a new policy, the answer is that of course it will be. The country has been given a new government, and then there will be a new policy in the field of competition as well. So I can already answer this on the interpellant's last question: No, this government is not going to go on with the previous government's competition policy in all areas. In some areas, we want to do it, but in other areas, we don't want to do it, and I'm going to get closer to it. The government, like the interpellant, wants competition to be an important tool in our mixed economy. Abuse of market power that goes beyond the interests of consumers and society shall not be accepted. The correct use and use of resources within the right areas provides competition with effective use of resources. Effective resource usage is required to get a maximum of cake to distribute. This approach enhances competition policy on economic policy and provides a good starting point for the further development of the welfare state. So far I believe that I and the representative Hansen are a few. But unlike the previous government, this government does not have a religious relationship with competition. For us, competition is an instrument and not an end in itself. It is important for the Government that competition should operate within the framework of other policy objectives, such as: environmental considerations and distribution. Furthermore, competition shall not be used in markets where competition does not work well, e.g.: in the fields of health, care and education. I'll come back to some of the specific areas that the interpellant has picked up, but I want to say something more about the government's general attitude to competition. This government attaches great importance to Community solutions. The public sector must then play an important role and make effective use of resources. At the same time, it requires high value creation and efficiency in a competitive private sector. Competition policy shall contribute to increasing the competitiveness of industry in addition to long-term ownership, research and development, innovation, learning and development of competences and beyond economies of scale which are also real factors behind technological and therefore economic development. Private sector enterprises must be prohibited from competing internationally and with foreign actors established here in the country. It is then a premise that one is used to competing also on the national market. Another important point is that a large number of companies that are currently screened for international competition act as subcontractors for competitive activities. Sub-contractors may engage in weak or lacking domestic competition with a view to reducing their national competitiveness due to the excessive level of costs. Competition policy is thus one of several tools to ensure an efficient private sector. Competition is not just about lower prices. It's also about creating a dynamic that gives the companies an incentive to drive innovation. The government believes that competition can be an important factor in developing technology and knowledge, as well as having a well-filled toolbox both in business policy and not least in education and research policy. This development benefits consumers in terms of new and better products and helps them to come up with solutions that improve our international competitiveness. In markets where operators follow up their business interests within general framework conditions, we want a tough follow-up of competition. It was e.g. the reason why SV entered for a ban on aviation bonus programmes in the previous period. It is necessary to have effective and strong competition surveillance to enforce the prohibition of anti-competitive cooperation and abuse of market power. The strong instruments provided by competition law to the Competition Authority must be fully exploited to counter activities that are contrary to the law. In the same way that the Government is fully aware that competition is to be used as an instrument in competitive markets, the Government is equally aware that there are areas where competition does not provide the best result for society. The government has stopped the work on postponing competition for railway works maintenance services. The reason for this is that the Government believes that extensive competition in the transport sector does not take sufficient care of decisive security and preparedness functions. The government also does not want to follow up on the additional postponement of rail passenger transport. The planning and allocation of additional routes on offer are thus halted by the Minister of Transport. We don't want to experiment with competition for basic services such as health, care and education. These services are not suitable for purchase and sale in a market. Real care is difficult to obtain into the consultants’ detailed schedule of time use and resource use. We humans have good and bad days. One day you'll be able to do most of it yourself. The next day you'll need a lot of help. A person like in the past e.g. only visits to home medical care for the distribution of medicinal products may become a type-of-kind frame or have pneumonia. That means that the next day must have a significantly stronger resource effort in the world. In such a context, it is clear that the person responsible for managing the change in care provision has a holistic responsibility for the person’s health. There can never be a private company. It's the public, often municipal health service, that has. Therefore, it is not wise to post the care tasks in a competitive manner. In the health sector, the situation is that private actors, both those based on ideals and those based on commercial purposes, have contributed constructively to the important work of reducing unworthy waiting times and long waiting lists in recent years. Contracts and cooperation between regional health care providers and private service providers shall, of course, be handled in a clean and good manner. But this government has chosen to have a differentiated approach to private operators. The Soria Moria Declaration suggests that the scope of the agreement between regional health care agencies and private commercial hospitals should be defined in the future. We want primarily to make better use of the capacity of public hospitals than is the case today. The Minister of Health has used meetings with regional health professionals to provide the Government’s platform with regard to the relationship with private actors. The majority of the Industry Committee, and that was the subject of the interpellant, has underlined that competition and outsourcing can lead to increased bureaucracy, increased costs and less long-termity – that is, the opposite of what is interpellant’s starting point for the interpellant. The Committee believes that public procurement legislation is rigid and difficult to obtain and is characterised by different practices between different entities. The majority have therefore asked that ‘the Government carry out a new and evidence-based review of the competitive policy regime’. I will follow that up by starting work to review the arrangements for competition policy and regulations in the areas of health and care, including: in order to draw up dividing lines between competitive and non-competitive parts of the health area, as I have just mentioned. The regulatory framework for public procurement is another important element of competition policy. The government has just determined that the thresholds in the national legislation should be on the increase fixed by the previous government in the fall. I'm going to evaluate the thresholds over a period of a couple of years and figure out whether to go further into the Soria Moria statement. In this context, I have also said that I am going to take a new round on the obligation to publish, which we did not include in this round. The government, on which the interpellant was involved, has received some notice of several decisions in appeals against the merger rules of the Competition Act. I'll briefly comment on these issues, because they show some of the issues that are just going on today's debate. Statkraft-saka underlines the Government's desire to establish good industrial solutions in the power sector. State power's alliances with regional actors, e.g. Trondheim Energy Works are involved in disseminating skills and innovation. At the same time, it is crucial – and it is stated in the Soria Moria Declaration, so there can be no bomb, neither one nor the other – that this government is occupied by public ownership of the important common resource that the force of water is for our country. On the other hand, state power does not mean that a non-busy competition and prices in the power market are on the contrary. When we made the decision, a decision was also taken to hire and sell more powerfully than that underpinned by the Competition Authority’s decision. But when the rent cannot be assimilated to the sal, the effect was not completely zero. The second thing I want to underline is the effect that Statnet invests in the transmission system according to socio-economic criteria. Statnet's task includes: reducing the problems of bottlenecks in the transmission system. Fewer bottlenecks will obviously reduce the competition problems associated with the maintenance of the Trondheim Energy Plant by Statkraft. So I would also say that the Right's dividend policy just linked to Statnet in the last few years has not exactly contributed to the fact that we've got transmission lines that allow us to do something about the competitive situation when it comes to power. One adopted a dividend policy of 50 pst. The Bondevik government took out 90 pst. by Statnett in the last three years and 70 pst. the fourth year. Then there is not much money left for Statnett to drive the development of new transmission systems and lines. The conversion of supervision of its decision to close the merger between two US suppliers to the oil industry was linked to the competitive assessment of the market. Competition supervision had defined the market to be the North Sea. All suppliers, all customers, all those who were going to buy these products, were quite a few that the only sensible definition of the market was the global market. We agreed on that, and so we made our decision about the Competition Authority.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-14.ana.ud669e170	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. Initially, I would like to say that I have no problem agreeing with much of what was said at the beginning about the general conditions of competition policy and consumer considerations. Governments also stressed that competition provides efficient resource use and that taking into account societal developments in general is an important concern. She was concerned about having a religious relationship with competition. I can immediately say that we don't have that. We are also of the opinion that competition is an important tool and not an objective in itself. We also very much agree with what the Council of State said, that competition is important to ensure innovation and technology development, and that it is an important tool in industrial policy. With regard to the calls for tender which the Council of State had in relation to the Railway Agency, passenger transport, health and care, there is no doubt that these areas are within the scope of public responsibility. But I think we also have a lot of examples that even though public authorities are responsible for something, competition spent in a sensible way will be able to give more money back for the money that the public spends. It could also increase freedom of choice for consumers and customers, even if it is within public responsibility. But what I see as a new course is the decisions in which the Government has converted the decisions of the Competition Authority. I believe that when the Council of State in its conversion decisions clearly states that the assessment of the Competition Authority is shared, both in the Statkraft case and in the Prior-Norgård case, there is a much greater tendency to consider matters other than consumer concerns. After all, the Competition Authority has justified its decisions on the basis of consumer considerations both in the case of State power and in the case of Prior-Norgården. That means we have a more consumer hostile policy. This means that large companies will easily be able to argue for reasons other than what is good for consumers. It was stated in the Statkraft case that there were good industrial solutions. There will always be an argument in a buying-in and merging situation. There are no companies that merge without an industrially good solution. I also believe that when it comes to public procurement, it will be exciting to see how this matter is dealt with in the Business Committee. It's a hearing on that matter tomorrow. The fact that the municipalities have a very poor practice of the legislation that the Council of State referred to in relation to the obligation to tender, I believe is a very bad reason to accept that there is no competition in public procurement. It's going on with camaraderie and corruption risk. Exempting so many purchases from the public and competition also increases the risk of having unfortunate conditions linked to these purchases. So when we get into the concrete things, I don't feel like the Council of State has calmed us down in relation to course changes, as presented.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-14.ana.ud669e181	I would like to remind you that the challenge of the current competition law, with the changes made in the previous period, is that it is at the Council of State first – unless I disagree with the competitive assessments in Section 16 – that I have to assess the competitive arguments against social consequences, and that is when I use Section 21, and the King of the Council of State makes a decision. In some of these cases, there has been no doubt – for example. Prior left a dominant position of 60 pst. for a position of 75 pst. It is not possible to disagree that they strengthened their position as a dominant player in the egg market. But then we have to discuss that issue against the societal consequences. And then we used the agricultural background and said that with the WTO agreement that we can understand the outlines of, regardless of who is in the government offices, we see that there are changes in agricultural policy. It challenges our agricultural policy, it challenges our operators on the agricultural market, and we think that we had to take care of it when we did that. But then I would say that competition and consumer interests are much more than price. And that's what I thought, the representative Hansen and the right-wing guy are forgetting. So the view of competition in the market depends on where you look at it from. Let me take the Post as an example and tell you a story from the election campaign. Vik Right did not receive this year's advertising material from his own municipality, because the rationalisation and efficiency of the Post, which was to be further liberalised by the previous government's decisions, led to the fact that one does not have all the services available in all municipalities, because the Post is supposed to be prepared for competition from outside and what is coming in the EU. As a result, Vik Right had to travel to neighbouring municipalities to send out his campaign material. After a post-sorting in Sunnfjord, one of the municipalities in Sogn and Fjordne must take a blood test before 12 o'clock for the blood samples to be produced in a sustainable state, for the post is no longer sorted in Sogn and Fjordane, but in Hordaland. It is clear that it is also a consumer issue. If you have ordered an hour at 14 a day, and it turns out that the doctor recommends a blood test, you have to come back the next day, because you can't take a blood test that can't be sent with the Post that day. So, district policy, agricultural policy and, in a lot of ways, within the sphere of society, security and security are factors that we politicians are quite content to assess in terms of competition policy. And then that's not the only answer. Price is part of it, but that supply actually exists around it is an important part of being occupied by consumers' interests. We don't just have to look at the pure fact price. And besides, price developments cannot always be seen purely against a well-functioning or not well-functioning market, it shows, for example, that. exactly what has happened in the egg market in the last ten years.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-14.ana.ud669e190	In its speech today, the Council of State has done its utmost to ensure the importance of a good competition policy for industry. And I guess there's no one in this room that's disagreeable in. It is important that we pursue an active competition policy that helps to increase and improve the competitiveness of business. It is also important that the policies that we pursue can help us to make more effective use of society's resources and to ensure good and reasonable goods and services for consumers across the country. Competition is an important tool, but not in all areas. There is a difference between running a store and caring, for example: It is also a fact that competition also does not take care of some other concerns that are important for the Labour Party and for the Government. The question of fair distribution may, for example: are not resolved through competition, nor are questions about equal opportunities for all to e.g.: euthanasia and a good health care system. It was against this background that a majority in the Business Committee during the budget procedure in the autumn said that we did not want to use competition and market solutions for public services in important welfare areas such as challenge, health and care. Here, there is a great difference between the red-green and the inter-pellant and the bourgeois parties' policies. Competition is healthy in many fields. I agree with the interpellant in it. But one thing is quite clear: the Labour Party and the Government say no to general competition and privatisation of our basic welfare services, such as school, health and care for the elderly. We are some of the people that public services should be good and that access to them should be made easier, but at the same time we should be aware that the opposite can actually happen with extensive privatisation and outsourcing of competition. The use of competition and outsourcing may lead to increased red tape, higher costs and less long-termity. These are factors that must be included in a real assessment of the economic benefits of such an instrument. In addition, public procurement legislation is complex and partly square, and it is often characterised by different practices between different units. I am therefore pleased that the Council of State has signalled that it will now carry out a new and evidence-based review of competition policy arrangements. A good and flexible instrumentation is important to enable us to pursue an active industrial policy. I am particularly pleased with the signals coming from the Council of State that the Government, within the framework of the public support legislation, will use them to reduce barriers to establishment and strengthen the industry in the districts. The increasing support from the Government to industrial development through the SIVA, through Innovation Norway and regional development funds, is very important for economic development and innovation across the country. This confirms a business policy that is much more active than we have seen in recent years.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-14.ana.ud669e201	It is a very important question the interpellant raises, and I agree with him that it is important to get a clarification from the Government on the role it wants to play in competition policy. It is a necessary question to ask because, if you want to focus on what the government parties have previously declared on competition, there is a great deal of concern. In addition, the Soria Moria Declaration is extremely thin in terms of competition policy, and the Council of State's statements here today also give rise to further concern. The point of view of the Progress Party is that competition is one of the most fundamental principles we have in our society, in the Western world and as the basic driving force for the vast majority of markets, industries, businesses and individuals in our social system. Therefore, it is essential that we protect competition and ensure that there is good and effective competition in all markets and between the private and public sectors. Competition contributes to more value creation. Competition contributes to greater freedom of choice. Competition contributes to a higher standard of living. Competition contributes to the focus on the proper use of resources. Competition simply contributes to the development of society in a direction that improves the quality of life of its citizens and ensures basic needs. The government must therefore contribute to the promotion of competition in the widest possible areas of society and ensure that in the markets in which Norwegian enterprises and consumers operate, good competition is ensured, and consumer access is ensured, and goods and services of favourable price and good quality are ensured. Competition is also crucial in the public sector. The public sector itself depends on the existence of good competition between the suppliers used by the public sector as subcontractors of goods and services. In this way, the public sector can obtain goods and services that both ensure a good purchase price – and thus a good use of government crowns – and good quality of the products and services it acquires. Of course, assuming that the public sector always had to deal only with one private provider of services or goods would lead to a completely unnecessary use of resources in the public sector. Similarly, users of public services must be guaranteed freedom of choice in the use of such services, such as healthcare, educational services, technical services or other services defined as a public responsibility. In this way, citizens can be guaranteed freedom of choice between several suppliers, and the public will be guaranteed a better use of resources than one would have had if one did not have the freedom to choose among the best. The government must therefore ensure competition in the public service sector. This will strengthen the public sector, it will contribute to better resource use and not least ensure better services. I have said in the past that there is reason to be concerned about what is going to happen in the field of competition under this government and under a minister of competition from the party SV. When the Stortinge addressed the issue of competition policy from the previous government, the current government parties, and in particular SV, showed little understanding of the important position of competition in society. In order to have good and effective competition, it is essential that we have strong and effective competition supervision that has both authority and professional weight. Independence is also important. Where supervision of competition is ensured as necessary for supervision, it is essential that supervision should be subject to assessment without the intervention of political authorities. When the Government reverses the decisions taken by the Competition Authority, as the State Council has done in a short time, the position, reputation and authority of the Competition Authority is weakened. It is clear that if the Council of State constantly changes the decisions of the Competition Authority, yes, then we will risk gradually being able to make a political difference. If, from a political point of view, one disagrees with the assessments made by the Competition Authority, legislative changes must be made instead of changing the decisions on a political basis. Where appropriate, it is necessary to establish an independent review body which may decide on complaints concerning the decisions of the Competition Surveillance Authority.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-14.ana.ud669e218	One of the areas where competition has really boosted production and improved consumer supply is in the field of transport. The previous government made a lot of efforts to give passengers a better and cheaper offer. The Council of State mentioned in its introductory statement The Railway Agency as an example of where a conscious halts competition. Why? Yes, for the sake of safety. In this there is an understatement that the previous government did not take security seriously. I will strongly reject that. On the contrary, the Bondevik II government made the roles clear. The former was the same establishment as the planning, construction, maintenance and supervision of the rail network in Norway. Now we've got the Railway Authority, we've got the Air Traffic Authority, we've got a major accident commission in the area of transportation. There are examples and evidence that the Bondevik II government put security in the high seat. Where is the Council of State from the fact that monopoly operations ensure security? The last report from the Railway Authority showed that there were thousands of errors on the rail network in Norway, thousands of errors that the Monopolist Railways said they should remedy, but that it does not show that without competition, driving ensures safety in full. The government of Stoltenberg concludes that this is still giving monopoly to the monopolist. No, I think competition works. One example of this is the Old State Road Service. When the reform where the production unit Most was now separated is fully implemented, we get 850 million. kr every year for better roads. Already this year, we're saving $300 million. kr. We also save between 10 and 15 pst. on road maintenance. One does not have to drive a lot of cars in Norway to understand that competition means something. Aviation is another example. Anyone who has traveled a bit by plane in Norway, and especially recently, has had the pleasure of having an alternative to SAS on both price and reliability. It has been a formidable growth for little brother in Norwegian aviation. Experience shows that it is good that SAS Braathens has won the competition. But competition did not come of itself. The assumption that Norwegian has succeeded is that we had a government that arranged. The abolition of the air passenger charge, the ban on domestic bonus generation, new competition law and the changes in the state’s purchase of air travel were necessary. Almost all of this was the current government parties – at least most of them – against. This story tells us that effective competition requires the authorities to facilitate it. It applies in aviation and in other areas, such as: mail, rail, bus and telecom. Norwegian didn't just do something with price. They made a new offer, which SAS thus also had to launch: cheap and easily accessible one-way tickets. In addition to making it possible to buy tickets in kiosks, Norwegian came with a user-friendly website, where you did not have to make great effort to find the good prices. So when monopoly breaks down, there's a lot more to it than changes in price. That the price goes down is positive and important, but one of the most important things is maybe how we as users are treated. The user will focus and quality will be put on the agenda. Unfortunately, the new government will have stopped to tender. A recent report by the Transport Economic Institute makes an irrevocable determination of the significance of competition and tenders for buses. The bus offer in the country is better than ever: lower prices and better offers around the counties either in the form of more to school, which one can then take out instead of providing bus fees, or more bus departures. Either way, the number is clear: over 10 pst. saving most of the places, money that can be used for even better services for the inhabitants. The previous government put Gjøvikbanen at risk. The Minister of Transport and now the Minister of Competition says no to more of this. What does one then say no to? What's going to happen on Gjøvikbanen after NSB offers, otherwise a principal company, now take over? Yes, tender on Gjøvikbanen has given more than 30 pst. better offer for over 15 pst. lower price, more departures and better offers to all, including: to disabled persons and persons with reduced mobility. You will continue to receive route information and tickets in the same system. So these benefits will not continue with the new government by putting out other sections of tenders where there might be a need for it, on Bergensbanen, Sørlandsbanen or other train sections. It is important to stress that the previous government had a high focus on the exercise of supervisory functions. Security has to come first. Why does the new government then say no to more train competition? Why does the Government of the Post refuse an experience of competition that the Post itself wants? The Committee has just been at the Post Office, where they say that the best guarantee that the Post is to further develop a good, nationwide postal service is not protection against competition, but that the Post is competitive. I fear that the answer is the same as when building docks in Bergen: increasing trade union deductions and reversal of the Working Environment Act – ‘it’s payback hour’. It is sad that narrow - minded ideology and powerful trade union interests now prevent us from getting the best possible offer for everyone throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-14.ana.ud669e241	We are in the paradoxical situation today that a Right Representative wants more regulation, and that of an SV State Council. The red-green government has shown through practical policies that there is a central difference between the new government and the outgoing one, including in competition policy. I'm happy with this line break. While the interpellant focuses on a short-term consumer perspective, I would like to commend the Minister of Renewal for her ability to act in order to safeguard fundamental national interests when she suspended the order that Statkraft sell Trondheim Energieverk. In this context, it might be interesting to hear whether the interpellant sees that national interests could be given priority in terms of competition. Competition policy is an area where you have to be careful about playing with ease, which I expect the opposition to see the importance of. For example, there is a number of experience in reducing the use of resources by regulated competition. In the Authority’s investigation, researcher Didrik Seip concluded that ‘most of the Norwegian competition experiments have failed’. Here, Seip shows that the prices of rail, electricity, telephony, taxis, roads and pharmacies have actually gone up rather than down after political action was taken for increased competition. A similar report was submitted by the Swedish Government in the autumn of 2004. The result was that in five out of six industries it became more expensive for customers after the monopolies had fallen. After the opening up of the railway in 1988, ticket prices had increased by 125 pst, while prices otherwise increased by 57 pst. Studies have found, among others: that the price of electricity and postal services had almost doubled. Another example is dentistry. Until 1995, dental prices were fixed through negotiations with the State. Then the prices were released. After release, dentistry prices increased three times as much as other prices. From 1990 to 2005, dental prices rose by 116 pst, while the increase in the consumer price index was 35 pst. It is not such that increased competition automatically gives lower prices to the consumer, it shows these examples. This should take the right inwards as soon as possible. There are several reasons why the competition regulations that the representative Torbjørn Hansen’s party has stood for are wrong. The most obvious is that we're just 4 million people here to land, and we live spread. Moreover, strict competition rules have been implemented throughout without sufficient professional knowledge. This means that economies of scale, ability to exploit new technologies and products, research capacity, etc. is infringed. Competition has become a goal in itself. This is, in my opinion, the right economic cardinal error. In addition, the nature of the competitive costs entailed by such a type of competition regulation has rarely been taken into account. A recent example to illustrate this is that increased competition in the taxi industry means that drivers run 12-hour watches, which compromises the safety of both customers, employees and other road users. The fact that increased competition always improves resource use is a falling truth.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-14.ana.ud669e262	In recent years competition policy has gained increasing attention and, as globalisation progresses, common rules for trade have become increasingly important. Norway, as you know, has a very open economy, with large trade with other countries, and a core of the EEA Agreement is just a common competition policy. During the Bondevik II regime, we were given a modernisation of our competition policy, we were given a new competition law, and in spring 2005 the Stortinget addressed a communication on competition policy. In 2001, the government also created an action plan, which has been far-reachingly implemented. We have strengthened the control of competition by giving the Competition Authority a more central role, and we expect that supervision will also have an active and independent role in future with a new base in Bergen. The interpellant Hansen from Right is currently engaged in effective competition in central consumer areas. For the Christian People's Party, an open competition is one of the means to make our businesses competitive, and to strengthen our consumers' position. We therefore need a political will from the Government to prevent anti-competitive behaviour. At the same time, the Christian People's Party does not want market forces to take over the governance of our society. We need to stimulate competition on price and on quality, but a one-sided focus on price can also strengthen the use and throw society, and we do not want such a development in the Christian People's Party. In some areas, free competition must be balanced against other important societal considerations. That is why the Christian People's Party has supported fisheries and agriculture as legitimate areas for emphasis other than competition. We have an important role to play in regulating the markets for disposal and in strengthening the income of our primary industries. Christian People's Party has supported the conversion in the dairy sector. We believe that a clarification of Tine's role as market regulator will provide clear and forward-looking solutions to ensure the security and income of the players in the sector. In a number of areas, active monitoring and political will to promote competition between market players is important. At the same time, Norway is an open market. We must also have a business with international competitiveness in the future, and then we must be open for companies to be large on the domestic market in Norway. This can be a small dilemma in many ways, but internationalisation of enterprises must be a concern for competition policy. A one-sided understanding of market power in Norway can therefore destroy further growth and for more jobs here. In the future, competition will be an important measure to make efficient use of resources, to increase competitiveness and innovation and to give consumers good goods at the right price. However, to make competition policy only a question of increasing the exposure to competition, e.g.: in the case of welfare services, turning the search phrase away from what is actually involved, i.e. the concerns of consumers. Competition is not a goal in itself, but it is an important tool. Therefore, the Christian People's Party believes that it is important to have a good competition policy that takes account of the consumer, he takes seriously, a policy where one also takes action to organize, produce and find solutions for the future. At the same time, there is a balance between the concerns of a good market and the concerns about the design of society. Against this background, we are excited about what the concrete and practical competition policy of the Government will look like.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-14.ana.ud669e283	Interpellation gives us the opportunity for an important debate on competition policy, and not least to nuance the content of competition policy. For me, it is important to first establish that competition in many areas is particularly important for both business, consumers and the public. Active competition can lead to lower prices and increased diversity for consumers, while at the same time enhancing the competitiveness of business through reduced costs and increased pressure for innovation. In a mixed economy, we see the need for strong competition in some markets, but we must be willing to have other competitive requirements in some markets based on strong public interests, such as: ensuring important joint functions, as also underlined by the Council of State in the areas of health, care and education. It has our full support. For the Centre Party, it is important to stress that the State must contribute to the development of an innovative and competitive business life through active and targeted industrial policies, increased research and development efforts, not least increased investment in infrastructure and technology, and ownership. It is important here to stress that not all developments can be left to the market or market forces. The development of the knowledge society has a major impact on industrial policy and competition conditions. The development of infrastructure also has a major impact on business policy and competition there, and of course also the competitive conditions facing industry. We must therefore have an active and targeted competition and industrial policy in which the State is involved in many areas, in research and development, in location, in marketing, in partnership with industry and which facilitates access to capital and ownership. In other words, the public must have the same conscious competition and industrial policy as the countries with which we compete, and that is an important element in the debate on competition policy. We must not be more naive in Norway and promote a competition policy that unilaterally weakens our business life and the competitiveness of our industry internationally and – I would like to emphasise – in a future perspective, among other things. with regard to the challenges we face with a WTO agreement that we are working to achieve the most favourable. It will present challenges for Norwegian business. It will pose challenges for the Norwegian food industry, and it will not least pose challenges for the Norwegian food industry. Then it is important, as has also been pointed out here, that we take strategic and business considerations when, for example, we take into account. assesses a merger as proposed between Prior and Norgården, and in my view for that matter also in the case of Gilde and Prior. Competition policy is therefore not just consumer policy. Competition is not a goal in itself. That's what we have to take with us when we're working on competition policy. I also want to stress in the end that new technology is an important prerequisite for creating a level playing field. Broadband and network speed can largely eliminate the distance disadvantages that exist for large parts of districts’ businesses — i.e. competitive distance disadvantages. Technology offers great opportunities for business start-ups and innovation, while public and private services can be provided equally easily across the country. That is why I expect the Government, in line with the Soria Moria Declaration, to facilitate the follow-up of the assumption of broadband access for all households and public and private businesses, and to have access to forward-looking high-speed networks by the end of 2007. This is important for industrial policy. It is important to create a level playing field across the country. It's important to put the whole country into use. And then competition policy also becomes good district policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-14.ana.ud669e299	The representative Torbjørn Hansen takes on an important theme in his interview, a theme that really shows the difference between today's government and the previous one. While the previous government had a very active and offensive policy that promotes efficiency both in public and in business, and which allowed business to compete on the world market, today's government really has no policy. What we see of a so-called new course in this area is actually an old course. Things should be reversed, re-evaluated and rejected – if not from partner organisations close to the Government. It was a bit touching to see the so-called family image with the party leaders from the government party and some trade union leaders on Dagsrevyen last night, but for the consumers in the country, who are busy with the interpellant, it was perhaps a sad sight. There is no doubt that there is «payback time». Consumer interests are less important than friends and sponsors of the Government. We see it in practical politics almost at every crossroad. Where the Competition Authority intervenes in order to prevent excessive concentration of its shareholders and ensure competition, intervene with the State Council and disregard the decisions of the Competition Authority. Renewal and competition policy for the Government is, in reality, a policy back to the past. It's just to look at what the Government has created from modernisation and renewal and increased competition. They have stopped the sale of Trondheim Energie, which the Competition Authority had imposed on Statkraft so that the company would not get too much market share. I see that the Minister of Renewal is now defending this, but it's not about the local public ownership, which might give consumers more proximity and better services. Together with Prior's purchase of Norgården. It has been approved and approved at the same time. That is to say, the Council of State supports, as we understand it, the decision of the Competition Authority, but after a few rounds of previous members of the Board of Governors of the League of Bonds has come to the conclusion that the operation of the agricultural cooperative will nevertheless have an approximate monopoly. It's a little consistent. There is no to competition for the Railway Agency, no to the provision of train sections and the reversal of county competition for bus routes, although a report by the Transport Economic Institute shows good experience. Nor is it said that there has been poorer security or poorer preparedness. The new Minister of Transport thus goes backwards into the future, as the Left sees it. It's kind of an ideological no to putting up competition. For the Left, postponement is not a "religious" principle, but we are also willing to let go of some "religious" relationships that the Government does not seem to want to escape. We want strong public service, but it has to be effective, with regard to consumers. What are the realities of the Left's policy pursued in the previous government? On the roadside there are saved 850 million. kr in the year due to the postponement of competition. There is money that has benefited from other good measures, such as the Government now needs to grant additional permission to the state budget in competition with other measures, such as research, education and health. Looking at the competitive launch of the Gjövik Railway, the result is a better route offer for passengers and a better material at a reasonable price. And on top of that, it was the NSB that got the assignment. But here it has to be a new course from a new government. It is much easier for trade unions to dictate the course than to think about passengers and consumers. In addition, the Minister of Culture will present his brief review of the book industry agreement and the Minister of Education's dubious action to all private schools. And to be on the safe side, the government also announces that one might want to create its own market for industrial power. If so, it is the sole purpose of abolishing competition, subsidising individual enterprises and pursuing a completely flawed environmental policy. What the government does in the field is to reverse a policy that stimulates competition, enhances quality and improves supply, even in areas other than price. Left thinks the public must be strong in its core tasks. It's solid. State's primary tasks are to provide citizens with security and equal opportunities. The State shall not be a foreshadow or engage in extreme advertising where it is not necessary according to national interests. What we see of the Government's policy is far in the opposite direction. Political solutions from the 1960s cannot be used today. We're part of the world, and it requires clear and new boundaries between the state and civil society.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-14.ana.ud669e320	In the reply from the Council of State, she referred to the decisions taken in the Ministry of Appeals concerning the merger rules of the Competition Act. The government's attitude to competition in the agricultural and cooperative sectors and the so-called Prior-saka have been widely noted in the media. The fact that the government decided on Friday that prior Norway had to buy the competitor Norgården, I do think that the concern for the consumer is important in matters like this. The reason why Prior buys up in Norgården is that one wants to create a strong and innovative Norwegian food business. This, I think, is necessary to ensure strong national ownership, in response to increased international competition. I also agree that it is important to keep up both a Norwegian production of eggs and the income of egg producers when the import competition is expected to increase gradually, as a result of WTO negotiations. As the previous speaker said, we are part of the world. In order to limit the adverse effects on competition, the Government stressed that prior had to ensure that Norgården's axles were sold in the Eggproducts company, and that prior had to promise to supply this business with raw materials. In this way, competition has been balanced against the concerns of the community, the concerns of agriculture and the concerns of the individual consumer. It is important that Norway also in future have a large Norwegian eight agro-food industry, based on Norwegian raw materials. This I think will be the best for both the consumer, for industry and for the workplace, and it will also contribute to a viable agriculture throughout the country. Those of us who are followers of Soria Moria are for, as has been said, a viable agriculture throughout the country. For us in the Labour Party, cooperation is also important, especially for the implementation of Norwegian agricultural policy through the agricultural agreement. The cooperation is eight and controlled by the members. It is a central characteristic of the cooperative that there is active economic trade between the members and the cooperative. Competition is opening up to the Ministry in matters of principle or importance for society to oversee the Competition Authority, and the majority of the Industry Committee have been concerned that it is important that the Department should keep up and actively evaluate this possibility. I'm actually very happy that we've got a government council that dares to take advantage of the possibility of taking social considerations that also benefit consumers.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-14.ana.ud669e335	There is little doubt that we are getting some ideological differences and approaches to how to deal with competition policy in the future. In the course of the debate, it is quite clear that there is a desire here to have a hand over some poor people who are allegedly in need of national protection because we need to control some sectors under the “national interests” grid. But I think what one gallant forgets is that there are really some colosses in Norwegian society that have now received the probably relatively happy news that they can lean back more than they could have done if the previous government had continued its competition policy. That is how, as the representative Lars Peder Breck suggests, we should have a competition policy that is similar to other countries. He's right about that. He had a reasonable approach in his post in many ways. However, Norway is now different from other countries in dealing with its own competition policy. Where we see that other countries are setting up their own competition policies, and we see that the EU wants to establish traffic rules, a law that takes account of the need to have competition, for diversity reasons, in order to strengthen the interests of the consumer – and there are many, many other obvious reasons – we see that Norwegian competition policy has been put into a kind of stable side lease in many ways. In fact, when we talk in Norway about the companies, the institutions, which are now given the opportunity to borrow more protection back, it's basically a company that has a turnover of 100 billion plus. It is obvious that these are the largest lobbying forces in the country, which are now giving a greater opportunity to get loose, and of course the argument that we are doing this under the vignette: we have national interests to be protected, in Norway. From among others: The power sector is used as an example by the Council of State. When you even go to Trondheim Energieverk – otherwise a company that accounts for a profit of 413 million in 2005. kr, and which swims over not only by force but by money – under the Vignette of ‘national interests’, the Competition Authority’s mandate to Statkraft, which reached a market share of more than 50 p.p., has stopped to take over Trondheim Energiverk. Now, Statkraft has been allowed to take over Trondheim Energy Works, in the area of the country that is least of all marked by competition, and where crisis is actually what is going to appear in the cold water, when we see a few years ahead. It is not, as the Council of State was in it, because the previous government had a dividend policy against State Power and against Statnet that made it difficult for them to expand lines. In parentheses, the Council of State, I didn't see that today's government parties removed a single penny in their alternative budgets when it came to dividend policy, so here you have to take the break with finding other arguments. The power crisis in Central Norway is simply due to a lack of political decisions, decisions that need to be taken today if we are to avoid another future crisis. In fact, the most serious thing in this debate is to remove the authority of the Competition Authority. Politically, it has been chosen to oversee the institution that other countries want to build up and build up as a strong monitor/controller, an institution that in other countries appears to be the most important of all to monitor and control competition, so that inefficiency does not occur or values end up in bad pockets. The activity that has now been highlighted, in overcoming competition supervision in two or three important cases, I think has given rise to irreparable adverse effects in many ways. The independence and authority of the Competition Authority are permanently weakened. This comes on top of the fact that you want to weaken the Competition Act. You have to ask the question: what in the world's kingdom is the Competition Authority going to do if they can't take the big, strong capital forces in the country in their ears? What else are they going to spend time with? Or do you really want to give the Competition Authority the exact opposite, i.e. a coercion that makes them run with weather and wind nowhere with today's political direction?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-14.ana.ud669e346	Let me first say the very basic thing here, which is that any market economy will destroy itself without competition regulation. Any player in a competition will try to get rid of competitors to be alone, in order to be able to take higher prices and become richer. So competition policy is about regulating competition, and it's absolutely fundamental for a country to have to operate. I feel that this debate shows – I think it shows in practice at least – that there is quite a broad consensus on the need for competition in what is the traditional private production areas we know, with goods and services traditionally produced by private operators. The debate shows that there is a little fire in the agricultural sector. I'll come back to that. However, the previous government was no more ‘religious’ than that the previous Minister of Competition turned a decision and gave the Joint Purchase the opportunity to buy the Norwegian mills — which have many parallels to what is here. So I don't think the word «religious» should be used about it. I believe it is a reality that competition policy has said that fisheries and agricultural policy must be ahead of competition policy, when there are serious arguments for it. I'll come back to that side a little bit. But what is clearly disagreeable about, the debate, is whether we should have increasing competition in what are the traditional public production areas and service areas. There I disagree with the Council of State -- let me say it -- because it's so important, both in the private and in the public sectors, that we use every day to get a little neater, a little better, and do things a little smarter. How do you do that? Yes, there are many things that contribute to it, but competition is an important contribution. OL in the ideal time is awfully boring and gives bad participants. The fact that a public part of the mixed economy or the social economy will run in an ideal time means that it will become a weaker sector and thus a less efficient sector. One of my important socio-economic reasoning is that in a situation where we are going to have high costs and efficiency gains in the private sector over time, the public sector will not receive it. This means that we get an imbalance and an increase in transmission needs, and it helps us in some years to experience increased public poverty as a result of not being willing to make the public sector better by means of the instrument competition today. I fear that in 10-15 years' time we will be running a new election campaign for increasing public poverty and what we are doing with it. We will remember when a socialist was put in the competition minister's chair and made some dangerous choices for Norway in the future. But I'm going to give two good advice in the private sector that I think it should be easy for the Council of State to get hold of, and that could give rise to increased competition. One concerns only importers, monopolist importers, in Norway. We have good competition at many retail stages in Norway, but then it is very often a tight wedge called the importer stage, which takes out huge importer gains. The reason for parallel imports, to go around these, which have started to grow, is still too bad. It's an area that can be solved in many ways. And there are many examples of the importer becoming rich. We can just look at the equation lists. There are often large importers, almost sole importers, who become search engines. The second is to look at local markets, how small competition disappears — for example. where there have been two good plumbers who have competed with each of their shops but have experienced that competition has driven them down on the equation lists. Then they merge, make one store that is a member of a national chain, and the prices go in the weather. It's an important area to follow, because it plagues people in their everyday lives. So to agriculture. It has always been the case with all the merger arguments in Norway that most have seen in the glass ball and said that there is a terrible international competition, so we have to get together now, get some good years alone in Norway to be strong enough to meet international competition. That's what the banks and many others have tried to do. I would say that what is now happening in the agricultural area in the light of the WTO negotiations is a slightly different situation, because there are not just threats. As was said by Lars Peder Breck, there are major challenges in the WTO. Yes, it must be safe. And more than that, the government has gone out and changed the framework conditions by accepting that there will now be significant reductions. For example, 40 pst means 40 pst. reduction in internal support, in effect, that the Government has committed itself to abolishing large parts of the target price system, the administered price system, the agricultural policy, and thus market regulation. I understand the Government's decision to release Prior with such a high market share for a very short time, when the Government has said that there will be a significant increase in competition in that area. Then it can be accepted. But it should also be a clear prerequisite for the Government to be able to agree to that type of merger, because it is going to come. And I think that egg production will just be an area that quickly gets both 40 and 50 pst. import contest.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-14.ana.ud669e363	The representative of Sponheim was at an ideal time. It ended in exactly 5 minutes. The President has never been away in a more precise speaking time in his presidential term. Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-14.ana.ud669e366	The interpellant is intelligibly concerned with the blessings of competition. However, like Sponheim, I must also remind you that the final objective of competition is, of course, the monopoly, and that we are therefore dependent on a regulatory framework that controls and sets a framework for competition, among other things. to prevent excessive concentrations of ownership in industry. It is quite right, as the inter-pellant suggests, and as confirmed by the Council of State, that the Government will change its competition policy in order to take care of important societal concerns. We do not want to compete for the elderly in society, or for the younger ones, for that matter. We do not want tendering systems that could threaten aviation safety. I should also like the Council of State, together with its colleague in the Ministry of Transport, to provide a proper review of the experience gained in the transport sector, that is, the sector most affected by the competition policy of the previous government. I am quite sure that such a review will give a different picture of this policy than the bourgeois parties would like to refer to. For example, I was. The representative of Greece, I would be careful to use the so-called efficiency gains as evidence of a successful outsourcing of competition in the road sector. Indeed, there is another side to the competitive outsourcing, in the form of a lower standard of operation and maintenance, and a sharp increase in the cost of management and supervision. It should be possible for those who cultivate the blessings of competition to have no apparent increase in money on the road, as intended by the competitive environment. Let me also use bus traffic as an example of an unimpeded competition that has led to strong ownership concentrations and that has made employees' wage and working conditions a competitive element – indeed the most important element of competition. Here one has to do with a group of employees who actually risk having to change their employer every four or five years. I don't hesitate to call what's happening in the bus industry, purely social dumping. I therefore hope that more attention will be paid to the growth of competition, i.e. the form of unimpeded competition that excludes suppliers of goods from the retail trade and that leads to a struggle for the place in the shelves. Therefore, it is important that we have a competitive oversight that shows a greater interest in the abuse of market power. We've probably seen examples of competition actually inhibiting competition.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-14.ana.ud669e379	I would like to thank both the Council of State and those who have made contributions to the debate today. I record that representatives from the current government parties, perhaps with the exception of the representative Vaggen Malvik, have moderated their rhetoric in the field of competition. And I also record that there is a broad consensus that competition is a sensible tool for completely standard consumer areas. I noticed what the Council of State said, that competition provides innovation and technology development. I fully agree with that. But then it becomes very strange when the Government and government parties have such a dogmatic relationship with some areas of public service production, because if you want innovation and technology development in these important areas, it is quite obvious that competition could be an instrument to achieve it. And then, of course, that's how the representative Upbeøen Hansen stressed, that fair distribution and equal opportunities for all are important. But it is a matter of course, and it is a political decision taken by the municipality, the magnificence and the state. However, it is fully possible to use competition to ensure increased innovation and innovation in public sector service production. I think that's pretty obvious. And I think we have a lot of single examples from the previous period that show that here are the possibilities that now the ruling parties for ideological reasons dissociate themselves. That, I think, gives a significant loss of well-being over time. Then I record that the representative Vaggen Malvik came up with the scepticism of competition and consumer concerns that we know from the Socialist Left Party back in time. I think there's political disagreement in that area, and it's going to be very exciting to see if this is a policy and a line that the Council of State and the Government will follow further. I'm afraid we're now seeing the outline of a new competition policy. This is not directly apparent from the government statement, and it is not directly apparent from what we have seen in the propositions. But I think we see the outline of a new practice in relation to merger protection, and I think we'll see that competition supervision is overrun with many different reasons in the merger cases. For example, I'm registering. the representative, Mr Eldegard, considered that the merger between Prior and Norgården was good for consumers, despite the fact that consumer considerations are the main basis for the anti-merger proceedings. It is clear that when merging and obtaining dominant positions in the market, with many different reasons, it is a signal to those companies that are now looking at the possibility and picking up the buying-in opportunities in the market that can be justified on the basis of increased profitability through a dominant position. I think Norwegian consumers will lose a lot of money on that. Today’s debate has been positive in relation to the main lines of competition policy, which were intended to clarify. And then we'll see from the practice of this for months to come, how the policy actually becomes.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-14.ana.ud669e394	I agree with the interpellant that this has been a good – and I would like to say funny – debate. I think Sponheim summed it up quite nicely: the debate clearly shows what we are some about, and then he also clearly shows what we are disagreeing about. It's kind of about what area and what markets we're going to have to compete, and where we're not going to have competition at all. We disagree on that, and so are we after this debate. I think it is important to reject some of the attacks that have occurred on the use of Section 21 of the Act by the Council of State. I would say, especially to the representatives of the Progress Party, that a law has been created that gives the person who has received a decision from the Competition Authority the right to complain, thereby giving the Ministry an obligation to deal with the complaint. I believe that the Progress Party has voted in favour of that law and the two paragraphs just because there should be a real opportunity to complain and a real treatment of the complaint in the department. Then, as stated in Section 21, the King of the Council of State is going to include the societal objectives in his assessment. This cannot be done by the Competition Authority, for the Competition Authority shall be confined to looking at the purely professional aspects of competition. So the department uses Section 21 is as it must be when we have a law. We usually promise actively, and it's not about taking away from the Competition Authority that it has and is supposed to have to make sure that we have a real competition, but the ministry is going to exercise the expanded political judgement that the Competition Authority obviously cannot exercise. And then we'll see what this review of the laws will give us in terms of changes. We'll get back to Stortinget with that. Just to comment on a couple of things: it's funny enough that the representative Ivar Kristiansen from the Right was concerned about Statkraft and Trondheim Energieverk. I thought there was reason to remember that it was actually Trondheim Right who in its time voluntarily sold Trondheim Energy Works to Statkraft. So the turbulence that he has today is somewhat strange. And let me take this with consumers' interests. Yeah, what's that? I would say, as Gullvåg pointed out, that consumers in the road sector have at least not seen anything in the roadways released from the State Road Administration. Eight hundred and fifty million. kr is released, yes, but at least they are not used in the road sector. The structure that the previous regime wanted from private schools would have led to a solid closure of further schools in this country. The entire net of ongoing schooling that prevents 16-year-olds from travelling on a hive – they can live at home and commute to the nearest secondary school – is clearly important in the consumer context. And that with health: we use the capacity of the public hospitals and don't build parallel systems with private clinics that take the easiest and easiest operations. The public hospitals have to take the patient as he is. A public hospital cannot send a patient with an extensive diagnosis away, cannot send dying people away because it costs too much to treat them. There is no equal competition between private and public hospitals, and it must be included in the assessments when creating competition – something that this government does not want as much as the previous government, devoted to health, education and care.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-14.ana.ud669e405	As a result, the interpellation debate in case No. 1 over.
