ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-04-lower.ana.ud1653e54	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 65 minutes, and that speaking time be allocated as follows: the Labour Party 20 minutes, the Advance Party 15 minutes, the Right 10 minutes, the Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, the Christian People's Party 5 minutes, the Central Party 5 minutes and the Left 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers of each group and up to five lines with replies after the contributions of members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-04-lower.ana.ud1653e63	To be discussed, we have proposals for a new disclosure law, which, in my opinion, is one of the foundations of our democracy. It's one of the most important laws that we have, which may not be given evenly over enough attention, but which at the same time are absolutely essential and completely fundamental, among other things. because it sets some boundaries for which transparency is required in relation to what the public is doing. When I sat and prepared myself, I came to an address I heard from the then Minister of Labour and Administration Jørgen Kosmo – I think it was in 1999, and I believe it was in Tromsø – who had a plan to renew the public sector. He said at the time that in Norway we had a bureaucracy that was so big that it could have a cop about. 40 million people. The challenge was, he said, that we were only 4.5 million. It tells you something about the dimensions that lie here, and it tells you how important it is to have a good public law. Obviously, transparency here is important to see if democracy works. There is a check on whether democracy works according to intention, and of course it is also a tool to see that bureaucracy does not take power at the expense of political decisions, not least to make sure that the funds are used properly and in a good way. Publicity is likely to be one of the best means of combating corruption. In this way, this is a particularly important law. Furthermore, I sat and thought about another thing, and I found a quote that I thought I would share with those who have taken the time to be in the Chamber during this debate. It's a quote for consensus. An English philosopher, Bertrand Russell, said: My sad belief is that people can only agree on things that don’t interest them. I would argue that in this case the Committee on Legal Affairs has shown the opposite. In particular, the Committee agrees. It's a quality and a strength in itself, because by standing together, the Storting clearly shows that you have many common values. Although there are nuances in relation to some things, there is a constant consensus, and that is a quality. So that statement is rebutted. If you're going to take the background of this case, there's been a good recording and follow-up from Bondevik II, and it's also been from the new Stoltenberg government, which follows up previous debates and demands from the Storting. In this way, there is a dynamic between what Stortinget is asking for and what governments are delivering back. On that occasion, I would like to pay tribute to those who have contributed. Not least the members of the committee think I have done an excellent job in this process. We've probably been a little bit unsure at times about whether we'd be able to get there, but we've come up, and the committee has jointly delivered. We've also had recordings from others. There may not be so many, but they are nevertheless important actors in relation to the topic of transparency and publicity. The press has been there, the civil ombudsman has been there, we got good input from former National Auditor Bjarne Dark Eidem, the Data Protection Agency has been here, the Municipalities' Central Ban and others have also been here. Everyone is a participant in the topic of publicity and transparency. Everyone is involved and points out the values that are important to consider in this way. As far as the investigation is concerned, the challenge has been to find the balance between the possibility of transparency in general government and the need for protection. The main objective, of course, is to have confidence in political systems and bureaucracy and to ensure that taxpayers’ money is spent in a sensible and good way. There is no doubt in the committee that rules are needed to exempt things, but as far as possible we should have transparency, because that is the way to create trust. Nevertheless, it will of course be necessary to have exceptions in relation to progress in matters, in relation to processes, not least in order to seek to avoid creating unnecessary concerns and concerns, because it serves no one at all. Openness is, as I said, a key here. It is also the case that transparency and transparency are fundamental to law, and it says something about the ideology of Norwegian society is rooted in, it preserves democracy, control and legal certainty. The Committee on Legal Affairs believes that what we have presented today is the point of balance that makes sense now. Later, you will come back and carry out an evaluation of this law, and then you will see whether there will be a need for changes or adjustments to the law we are about to adopt. And that's probably also the way, as it's usually in odelsting and in bulk, that someone will be satisfied, and others won't be fully satisfied. But the result we've been presenting today is what we've been getting so far. So I'll say a little bit about the sub-themes of the law, and the scope might be the most important thing. This law shall apply to all bodies which are an organisational part of a State or municipality, as well as to private legal entities in matters where they make individual decisions or make regulations. So the law does not apply to private companies. The same applies to public enterprises where they compete directly with the private sector. As regards the subject of more publicity, the Committee has shared its views. Here there is a majority, consisting of the Workers' Party, SV and Right, who argue that more publicity should lead in relation to the use of the law. There must be a consequence of damage in order to be able to refuse transparency, and the threshold for doing so, according to the majority, must be very high. For the Progress Party, we agree with the principle of damages. But we have seen the need to propose a change to this law. Paragraph 11, second sentence, states: ‘The Agency should provide transparency: [[...]] The Progress Party believes that ‘should’ in this context becomes too weak, and we want the word ‘should’ to be replaced by the word ‘should’. If you want more publicity, we think it is a better and clearer signal to replace the word ‘should’ with the word ‘should’. Of course, the considerations that make it possible to exempt it should nevertheless be considered. But as a signal, we think it should be there. Of course, this should also be possible. Exemptions must be granted, based on the principle of damages. So in a document, parts of the document can be excluded, and the rest of it has to be transparent. Nevertheless, there is an exception in this context again, and it is that if you take out an exception, you get a totally wrong picture of the document by what you have left, you can exempt the entire document. Of course, this is not to end with the fact that transparency gives a totally wrong conclusion to what was actually the starting point. It is also the case that access for exceptions to internal documents has been continued, and that is, of course, also absolutely necessary in order to prepare matters in a good and sound manner. Once again, there is a majority of the Workers' Party, SV and Right who support the proposed legislation and have the right to further regulate it in a regulatory home. For the Progress Party, we support the intention, but not the regulatory home. We want a change to Section 14 to ensure that what we think best respects the law. The aim of the Progress Party is to reduce access to exemption from internal documents due to the fact that the internal document itself is not sufficient. So it's only for the sake of a good process to grant access to exceptions, at our discretion. Another important element is public procurement and acquisition. That's a point that I think the committee was concerned about during the discussion. The reason is that there have been quite a number of complaints about public acquisitions. Public procurement takes place for approx. 200 billion a year. That's a lot of money -- that's a lot of money. Then, of course, it should be that you have as much insight as possible into what is happening, in order to ensure that this is done fairly and neatly, in the interests of everyone involved. Increased transparency will, of course, strengthen control, and also reduce the risk of corruption. This is not an anti-corruption law, but it is a law to promote transparency, which will also be a counter-factor in relation to corruption. The complaint subject of public acquisitions, which was established on 1 January 2003, has received approx. 850 complaints from the time it was created until now. That's a very large number. If you go into these matters, you can see that complaints in three out of four cases have been supported. In my opinion, it says something about the practice of exempting public acquisitions. In this way, this law will deal with it, and you will get changes and clarifications. It would probably be that when it comes to using taxpayers' money, we should make sure that they can also see how this money is used. Another theme is the transparency of candidate lists. The Committee has been divided, not with regard to the legal paragraph, but with regard to the indications to be made on its use and interpretation. The majority, consisting of the Workers' Party and SV, promote a change in Section 25, which the Progress Party has perceived that the Right will also support legally. What the Advancement Party and the Right have been concerned about is that it could be negative in relation to the recruitment of people to publish their name when applying. We are also concerned that this can have negative consequences in a work environment, where it is noticed that a person will turn away. That's the vulnerability we're worried about. But we're going to support the bill anyway. What we've pointed out is that access to exemption should be very, very strict, and that should only be an exceptional occasion. Of course, our main concern is that the public sector is more vulnerable and does not have the same competitive conditions as some private individuals. Thus, we are concerned that this paragraph of the law can actually work against its purpose, but we have nevertheless chosen to support it today. Complaint handling is also an interesting topic, including: after consulting the Committee. There is no doubt that the new law will increase transparency, and the handling of complaints is, of course, also absolutely necessary. What we gained insight into when we worked on this was that there are poor routines, lack of knowledge, and it has, among other things, has been such that there has been a refusal of access to matters, perhaps for reasons of convenience, or at least for reasons that have not been good enough. It could even be that you had as a practice to do it. A lady from Fafo was here talking to us. She told me that they had gone to the depths of this and asked for the reasons for the exceptions, and then they turned around in most cases. Where it was first denied transparency, one turned around and gave insight when one had to go deep. It must be that the law is to be observed in relation to the intentions of the legislator with it. Then, of course, it will be important to ensure that the law is applied according to what is desired. It's probably also that there's a lot of inequality in public agencies. Some are nice, but others have undoubtedly a way to go. The goal must be that we should get equal treatment, regardless of the state and where in the country we live. The committee is divided again here. The working party, SV and Right support the proposal. The progress party has a different model. We want a central Board of Appeal, so that we ensure that we get equal redress. We believe that this will give greater similarity to complaints, and it will provide better statistics when evaluating the law. Public funding organisations are also a theme. Once again, the committee is divided – although I initially said that the committee was very much in agreement, we are actually also divided into some things, but think about all the things I don't mention. We are divided with respect to those who receive public funds. The working party and the SV will not require private organisations to provide the amount they receive from public funds. They think it is bureaucratic and unnecessary. The Progress Party and the Right want to see how much each gets, and from whom. We believe that taxpayers need and should have a right to know who gets, and what goes on. So I'm going to approach the end of this and say something about the exception. Of course, it is also the case in the new law that confidentiality-related information is still to be excluded. The protection of privacy shall also be taken into account. For the purpose section – which someone might have expected me to say something about first – I should say, a collective committee has strengthened it. This has been done by including a supplement in the purpose section, where you take in the passport on trust in the public. It reinforces, in my opinion, the intention of the law and emphasizes one of the main purposes, and is, at least as I see it, an improvement in the law. Another thing that the Committee has looked at is the use of pardon. Here a joint committee asked the government to investigate different models for possible transparency in the pardon regime. It is true that in court proceedings you have a right to know what is going on. The European Commission for Human Rights has regulated it in such a way that a judgment is to be given to the public. We believe that transparency in concession cases will help strengthen the entire pardon institute, and in this way it will be a quality boost. Evaluation is also an important theme. The Committee is divided. I've perceived it to be nuances. But one of the most important things that now happens is that you get a good and broad evaluation to see if the law works according to your intentions. Here, the Council of State will have a responsibility to ensure that the means are available to do the job, and to ensure that training takes place outside of those who will manage and use this law. Finally, I would like to point out that on page 18 there has been an incursion in a comment from the Progress Party. We will show you, among other things: to ‘Norwegian Journalists Act’. It shall read ‘Norwegian Press Association’. I ask that it be corrected. I will therefore present the Committee's position. I take up the proposals of the Progress Party and the Right and the proposals of the Progress Party. I also take the opportunity to say that the Progress Party will support proposal No. 9, from the Left, even though it has not yet been promoted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-04-lower.ana.ud1653e125	The representative Jan Arild Ellingsen has taken up the suggestions he made. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-04-lower.ana.ud1653e130	First of all, I would like to thank you for a good and good briefing of the case spokesperson – it seemed to me that I was very good. The majority will continue today's practice when it comes to search lists, and we have chosen to clarify how the practice should actually be. In order to prevent misinterpretation, we have also chosen to include this in the form of law. But I have a little problem getting to know what the Progress Party actually means when it comes to search lists, because it seems to me that they're a little too and a little bit against. If they should have an exception, how, if so, should it be practised? Can the Progress Party clarify what they actually mean in this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-04-lower.ana.ud1653e137	As I said in my main post, it is that the Progress Party – and I assume the Right – will support the proposal for Section 25 that the majority has submitted. What we've been worried about is the access to demand that it be published. We're worried that it's going to work against its purpose, and that you're going to experience that it's actually going to work negative in terms of recruitment. That's our main concern in this. The practice shall not be conducted by Stortinget or Odelstinget – it shall be done by those who are required to administer the law. That is why we have also highlighted the importance of a good and broad evaluation. In addition, it's going to be the majority's comments that lead, so I'm assuming that the representative might be more concerned with his comments than with mine.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-04-lower.ana.ud1653e142	The rapporteur has given a clear explanation of the disclosure law itself and the principles of the disclosure law. What we have now seen through the media, especially this last week, is a focus on ourselves as representatives and the publication of the accounts of, for example, large-scale groups. In relation to the principle of disclosure, how does the Progress Party assess that there is also a greater degree of transparency in the accounts and arrangements of the representatives, so that they will be known, for example: If the press asks for it?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-04-lower.ana.ud1653e149	I thank the representative, Mr Ballo, for the question. I cannot record that the representative, Mr Ballo, has proposed that the Public Relations Act should cover the Stortinget. If it was the case that he was worried about that part, he should have done it. I record that he does not, and thus the representatives Ballo and Ellingsen are in the same place.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-04-lower.ana.ud1653e156	Can I replicate that?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-04-lower.ana.ud1653e161	The line has ended. It's another replicator who has asked for the word, and it's Gunnar Kvassheim. But it's an exercise to answer cards, and to ask the question cards as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-04-lower.ana.ud1653e166	Let me start by saying that it is positive that the Progress Party supports the announced proposal from the Left to look at increased transparency where private operators carry out public tasks on public account. With regard to the candidate list, I am a little surprised that the transparency profile that the Progress Party is trying to build and actually follow up on good proposals is not being followed up on this important area. Instead of helping to improve today’s legislation, as the majority do, one goes in the wrong direction by allowing for a greater degree of exceptions. The practice has shown is that one should go even further. One should have had full transparency, because today we are facing a situation with very random results, depending on how it is done locally, and to the extent that it is appeal procedure, it is not completed until the reality of the matter is settled. How can the Progress Party explain this lack of logic in relation to the position you have in some other areas?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-04-lower.ana.ud1653e174	Now, the representative asking the question is the one who has to explain any shortcomings in the context. I mean, we got it. I believe the most important thing in what the representative addresses is knowledge and training in understanding the law. I have seen that a joint committee is concerned about, not least through the knowledge we gained along the way in the process here. We have suggested that there should be an opportunity to exclude names from the candidate list, but it should be practised very quickly. In addition, as I said in my main post, so we're going to go in and support the law paragraph, so in that way we've presented what we think is the reasonable way to deal with it. That others disagree with it, I have to live with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-04-lower.ana.ud1653e183	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-04-lower.ana.ud1653e186	The principle of publicity is one of the most important pillars of our democracy. The matter we are dealing with here today is many who have been waiting for, and there are many who have worked with it. Work started under a State Secretary’s Committee set up by the last Brundtland Government in 1995. The process has subsequently been led by two other State Secretary Committees and ended in a hearing before Christmas in 2003. Work and consultation opinions have been marked by some disagreements and disagreements. With this background, it is nice to be able to stand here today with a certain degree of consensus in the Committee in the most significant way. I will give tribute to the proposal that Mr. Bondevik-II made, and that the sitting government put itself behind. I would like to point out that the Committee has been able to find broad support for the most important part of the proposal. The Soria Moria Declaration states: ‘The government will strengthen the influence of individuals on their own lives and the development of society in all parts of society. All must have access to knowledge and insight enabling participation in democratic processes.’.» And on the other hand, ‘The right to be informed is essential for people’s ability to participate in the societal debate.’ What we're going to adopt today is taking this into account. The result will be that people will have a greater chance of understanding and thus a better opportunity to participate in processes involving the individual. The proposal for a new public law that we are now considering will substantially strengthen the public's right to transparency in administrative documents in relation to the current law of 1970. I'd like to say a little bit about the most important suggestions in the proposition. The first thing I want to draw out is that we are now expanding the scope of the law. Among other things, this would have consequences for legal entities in which the public has a holding that gives more than half of the voting rights in the supreme body of the legal entity. This will be done, for example. account for most waterworks as well as municipal and inter-municipal waste companies. The next thing I want to say a little bit about, is that transparency will be significantly enhanced. This right is a fundamental democratic principle, which is enshrined in several places, both nationally and internationally. This principle was also enshrined in the Basic Law § 100 as late as 2004. Concretely, we are now strengthening, among other things, the possibility of seeing the case-preparation correspondence within municipal and county administration. I would also like to mention something that I know the press is particularly concerned about, and that is the conditions for exemption. This is an area where the Committee is divided. The majority of the Committee will now do so by tightening the conditions for exemption in the various provisions of the Act. The background for this is that we see some cases where the discretionary mercurity rule is practiced at random or with a lack of knowledge. We therefore believe that it is more accurate whether we intensify the terms of the waiver while continuing with today's more general rule. What is important in this context is to highlight the need for training related to the use of the law. We know that there is a problem with this also with the current law. To illustrate this, I would like to point out that of the approx. 850 complaints that have entered the Public Acquisitions Complaint Board have been supported by 75 p.m. of the cases. It brings me to the last point that I would mention of proposals to amend the law: we will now have a significantly better chance of accessing documents in connection with tendering procedures and other types of public procurement. The general rule now is that once the choice of supplier or tenderer has been made, it is not possible to exempt protocols and offers from transparency. This will greatly contribute to reducing the risk of corruption. I would also like to mention that in the comments we require an evaluation of the law during the next major period. We have also pointed out that this evaluation should focus in particular on organ-internal documents, and that must be seen in the context of our considering amending the archive regulation, so that the administration is obliged to record these types of documents. The point of this is that we want to see if the law is practiced after what we require here today, or whether we need to make further legal provisions in order to achieve more publicity. Many could probably think and go even further with this law, but once you have seen how random and deficient the current law is being practiced, I believe that you now have to focus on achieving the intentions of the proposal before considering, if necessary, further extending the law. This is why we also need an evaluation after this new law has worked for a while. The legislative proposal extends the right of access to documents in the public sector. It will also apply to more types of establishments than the applicable law. The proposal also provides for an extension of what kind of information may be required to be transparent, while at the same time narrowing the scope for exceptions. This, together with adding up to a process where administration is to be trained in the use of the law, will lead to more publicity. Today, therefore, we want to strengthen one of the pillars of our democracy.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-04-lower.ana.ud1653e222	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-04-lower.ana.ud1653e227	It is such that I perceive that the Workers' Party is a party that is reasonably consistent in what it does. It has substance, and it has pervasive attitudes about how things should be done. Therefore, it is a little surprising that you are not involved in a number of things that the Progress Party has addressed in this matter. What I'm most surprised about is that you don't realize that this is going to be a punishment, which we, on our side, are in favour of. What is the reason why you don't want to have such a passus in this law to show the severity of doing acts that are in violation of this law, and don't the representative Breen think it would be pedagogical and had it there to show that there was actually a penalty option here?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-04-lower.ana.ud1653e234	What we have said is that we are pleased that the proposal allows for the enforcement of the decisions of the Board of Appeal in such cases. The reason for this is that, in the circumstances, one can be punished under the penal laws §§ 324 and 325. That's one example. Another example is that, if documents are discarded, they can be punished by Section 22 of the Archive Act. In addition to that, we have service and disciplinary sanctions provided for in Section 14 of the Civil Service Act. So we think it's sufficient in the cases the representative Ellingen now mentions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-04-lower.ana.ud1653e239	An overall committee has strengthened the purpose paragraph and emphasised the importance of strengthening trust in management. In the suspension, the Workers' Party has opposed the proposal to extend the scope of the law to legal entities providing health, care and education services for which the public has a statutory responsibility to provide. Then my question is to the representative Thomas Breen: why does the Workers' Party not want transparency in areas that manage large public funds and provide very important services to the population?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-04-lower.ana.ud1653e248	One of the reasons for this is that many of the private enterprises that carry out public tasks have a statutory responsibility for providing services have so little administration that complying with the law would lead to an unreasonable burden. That's the one. At the same time, we've also said that when we're going to evaluate the law in the next magnification period, this is one of the themes we'll focus on to see how it works.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-04-lower.ana.ud1653e255	It's right, as it's said, that this brings public opinion to the administration a lot of progress. It is very positive that the Workers' Party ends up on the main lines of what the Bondevik II government offered. The size has previously determined that, in the case of the Riksrevision, it shall be exempt from publicity in the case of recordings and replies relating to the control of the administration. This means that Stortinget has said that there should be no transparency around the control activities. Does the Labour Party not consider that there is a lack of logic between what is now included in the law, namely increased publicity, and that, as far as the activities of the National Audit Office are concerned, it facilitates – as the majority have done – for limited transparency? My question is whether the Labour Party is willing, as the Left has mentioned before, to reconsider this with a view to gaining transparency in the control activities of the National Audit Office in relation to the administration.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-04-lower.ana.ud1653e264	No, we don't intend to assess it now.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-04-lower.ana.ud1653e269	That was probably the shortest line so far today! The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-04-lower.ana.ud1653e275	The new Public Relations Act and the principle of the right to require transparency of administrative documents are based on three main considerations: the consideration of democracy, control and legal certainty. Furthermore, the information function that management can actually have is emphasised. Every day, the public takes decisions that interfere with very many private businesses and the lives of individuals. It is essential for the Community to have effective tools to assess whether this is done in accordance with the intentions of the legislator and with the basic principles of fair dealing. The right of access to public proceedings is therefore one of the most important guarantees of individual legal certainty against any abuse of authority. The administration is, on behalf of the Community, entrusted with translating the laws of the Grand Duchy into practical policies. The right is satisfied that we now have a public law that gives an extended right of access in several important areas. A good deal of work has been done to secure yours and my legal certainty, but what becomes the reality of this remains to be seen. In practice, we are all dependent on the individual case handler being conscious of his responsibility, and loyally ensures transparency about his reasons and does not move the real decisions into enclosed spaces. I am very pleased that it was the Bondevik II government that provided a guide to greater transparency in government. The scope of the law is substantially extended and allows for increased democratic control. The fact that the municipal sector is also covered by the law means that local government has to look at the cards differently from before. This should not be seen as a threat, but rather as an opportunity for increased legitimacy. Equally important is that the law paves the way for greater transparency in establishments where the public has more than half the votes or elects more than half the members with voting rights in the Supreme Body of the legal entity. Except in this case, enterprises that compete with and under the same conditions as private enterprises are. The right, together with the Progress Party, has proposed that the law should also include legal entities performing health, social or educational services for which the public has a legal responsibility to offer, except that this should not apply to individuals having such tasks. These parties believe that it is important that such activities also be included, as they manage significant public resources and because it is important to be transparent and to be able to ensure the transparency and good democratic control of society where public funds are used in the production of services required by law. The Minister of Justice was early out in the media and promised that the treatment of new disclosure laws would be more than a party speaker, and declared that the Government wanted to give more transparency than the bill put forward by the Bondevik II government. Now the time of the celebrations is over, and I am surprised to note that the government parties are not as open to increased transparency when it comes to the play, and have opposed the proposal that health, social and educational services should be covered by the law. It is very important that we ensure transparency in the management of public funds even when the public hires private people to do the job separately. We need to have sufficient opportunities to verify that this is done in line with the legislator's guidelines and in a proper way for service users. For the Right, this is a completely necessary prerequisite when we first put ourselves in a positive position that individuals can take over and participate in important problem solutions in society. That being said, it is of course central to stress in this context that this does not apply to enterprises carrying out similar tasks in competition with, and not on behalf of, the public. I note, however, that the Workers' Party and SV do not see the need for such transparency, despite the fact that it is a fundamental principle that users, among other things, should do so. shall be treated in a non-discriminatory manner when public funds are allocated and the possibility of controlling this may be of great importance in ensuring that most people actually receive the offer they will have. On the other hand, it is very positive that there is an overall committee calling for greater transparency in the treatment of pardon cases. While there is full transparency about judgments, there is zero transparency about concessions and reasons for such. The recent debate on pardon practices because undesirable practices were revealed, updated the issue of why pardon cases are dealt with in closed rooms while court cases with convictions are open. The right considers greater transparency around pardons to be essential in order for the pardon institution not to be discredited by the population. I am therefore very pleased that there is an overall committee that asks the Government to review today's legislation on pardons and come to the Stortinget with proposals on how we can achieve greater transparency by pardon. It is also with satisfaction that I now record that with the new tendering rules we will provide a better system to counteract corruption and camaraderie in general government. The Public Health Act can therefore also be seen as a new tool in the fight against corruption. I am thinking in particular of the standard being to ensure transparency in the first place and thus not to have to do anything extraordinary, such as to complain and so on, in order to verify that everything has gone right. When it comes to the use of public money, this makes sense because it provides a basis for increased trust in government's dispositions in public procurement matters. In my view, this is an important consideration in the practice of the provisions. In the past, a bit of random justification has been given to the providers that they did not, but someone else was preferred and chosen. I assume that, according to the new law, you will now, as a general rule, be given access to the protocols and offers when the choice of supplier is made. This will give the participants in the tender an extended stand to verify that no outside considerations have been taken into account in the choice of supplier. Too many unfortunate incidents have been discovered in which municipalities have failed to comply with the rules on tendering and procurement. On the right, we believe that it must be a strength that the new disclosure law is so clear on this point and can thus help to prevent scandals such as this. the waterworks at Akershus. I have also noticed that the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs has called for greater transparency in this area in order to prevent corruption. In the past, government has been criticised by several teams for its practice of the rule of more publicity. The new obligation to assess transparency will be an important test to see whether governance in the future is able to practice the law in the pact for its purposes. In the evaluation round, the right will pay particular attention to the practical nature of the management's discretion in this area and will be prepared to change the course if necessary. In this context, I cannot be given strong enough emphasis on the need for law administrators to receive adequate training on how to deal with the new legislation. In the past, it has been a major problem that each public official has kept the cards tight to the chest in fear of error in the law. It shows what kind of challenges we now have. Better law-enforcement training is essential in order to meet the objectives of the law and to increase public awareness. Good competence in the law will provide safer practitioners who know where the limit is for which information can be withheld and who are required by the public to be transparent. I therefore expect the Minister of Justice to address this challenge immediately and give training a high priority. This will provide the best basis for a sound and independent assessment of the individual official and ultimately become the key to whether the law works as intended. The new Public Health Act simultaneously implements an EU Directive on the re-use of public information. In the opinion of the Right, it is an important principle when Section 17 of the Act states that information which is publicly available under this or other laws should be freely available if no other law or the right of a third party precludes it. In order to facilitate accessibility and use, the law also requires public information to be available in digital format and to be processed electronically. Finally, I would like to refer to the minority proposals from the Right and the Advance Party. The proposal to extend the scope of the law has been mentioned earlier. The implementation of the Public Health Act is undoubtedly a major challenge. Whether we succeed in achieving the purpose of the law depends on the many who in everyday life will contribute to this. The Committee is committed to monitoring developments in this area and therefore wants an evaluation of the law. There is some disagreement as to when this should be done for the first time and how detailed the evaluation should be. The Right Party and the Advance Party have proposed an evaluation within five years because we believe this is sufficient time to gain experience in law enforcement, and then because we believe it would be important to be able to correct the course early if the evaluation reveals weaknesses.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-04-lower.ana.ud1653e313	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-04-lower.ana.ud1653e316	I record that the Right is concerned about why the Workers' Party does not support the proposal of the Advance Party and the Right for a new Section 2(e) on health, social and education services. It kind of surprises me, because then Ot.prp. No 102 was submitted last year, the Right said the same thing as the Workers' Party. On what basis has the Right now turned all the way around during the last year? I wonder about that a little bit.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-04-lower.ana.ud1653e321	There has been a process while the law existed. There has also been a process during the processing of the law. We have placed great emphasis on the fact that the purpose paragraph which the Committee has also contributed to further clarifying is actually to be complied with in practice. We have come to the conclusion that with the important tasks carried out in this area and with the significant public funds involved, it would be right that the Public Service Act should also cover these activities.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-04-lower.ana.ud1653e326	I think that the representative Aspaker argues well for more publicity, insofar as also in activities other than purely public activities. However, the majority of counter-conceptions are that many enterprises are enterprises with some limited resources. You can take the scheme as an example. You might have an office with a doctor and a secretary and have to do a job with full lists every day. And then you might be asked for evidence, which, by the way, makes it extremely bureaucratic and resource-intensive. Our approach has been to allow the public to bear that responsibility, just to protect private business, so that for purely resource reasons, it does not go wrong. Right, which is a party that often defends private activities, should well be able to see that point and see the dilemma that arises if you're going to use a lot of energy on it, and not let the public take that responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-04-lower.ana.ud1653e333	It is quite right that the representative, Mr Ballo, refers to situations where it is thought that this could be a disproportionate burden. But we're going to choose the second approach: the important thing now is to ensure transparency, and then we'll get back in the evaluation of the law if this should take a form and become so extensive that it's not appropriate. But we have therefore chosen that the emphasis should be on the consideration of large funds and important statutory services.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-04-lower.ana.ud1653e338	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-04-lower.ana.ud1653e341	This is in many ways a joyous day, for it is a long work that has been completed, and which the Storting is going to vouch for today. We have a public law that became applicable in 1970. The work we are now completing was already started in the spring of 1995. It does say something about the complexity of publication and transparency of documents that the work has taken so long. It is generally very positive that the opposition is also so active in pointing out the need for public transparency. At the same time, it may be a little surprising that what you didn't want to do in position, you're now promoting suggestions on in opposition. But the fact that you then admit that you should go further than the Bondevik government initially suggested, I also see as positive. However, what there is reason to warn against is to produce this disclosure law almost as a step backwards. It's not. The law that is now passed is a much better law than the law that we have today. What we can point out is that the scope of the law is extended, transparency will apply to more types of information than under current law, access to exemptions from transparency will be substantially restricted, the rules of procedure will be strengthened, and the proposal will facilitate the re-use of public information. I think it is important to stress that what we have said in the committee is that the law should work for a while, and then you will get a thorough evaluation of it in the next major period. It is important, because some of the objections you may get from different teams – it may also be from the government apparatus and from the government – may be such that you have to take it into account now, but see if you can go any further as time goes on. I notice that especially the Left has a strong commitment to this. I think that's good. We in SV are happy about that, because we have had that for many years. We also note that the Left here today in the Chamber is promoting a proposal: the Storting is asking the Presidency to make proposals that ensure full transparency in the accounts of the large-scale groups. So you're having problems with the debate that's been over the last few days. What I think it is right to point out is that the presidency of a seminar has already taken the initiative to have a review of the procedures, and there will be a case this spring. I have again contacted the administration today and received an assurance that the matter will come in the spring. But in order for there to be no doubt, SV has also contacted the administration and said that we want this to appear on the case map next week, so you get a discussion, get views from the different parties. So you could say that the proposal from the left kicks in open doors. So it's completely unnecessary because it's already a matter for the presidency. Then I would also say that we are concerned about the public, and we are also concerned about the public in SV attached to us as representatives. But what I record as a substantial objection – not only here, but elsewhere in society also in relation to full disclosure, which is used as a concept here, and full transparency – is privacy considerations, and I don't think that's what you're going to get. To the extent that documents contain personal data that may harm individuals if they are published – not because they have committed stupid acts, but perhaps because they have had a disease, just as a medical journal is exempt from publication – you need to find a balance sheet, for example. also linked to the accounts of the different size groups. We've been concerned that we're going to have a neat relationship with. We believe that such a review is now OK, because you can get the same practice in all the parties, and that you don't almost create a competition in the public space about who is willing to go the longest in publication, because that's what we think is a competition that isn't particularly healthy over time. Otherwise, I will finally give tribute to the Council of State because I feel that there has been a very good dialogue with the Ministry of Justice to achieve more than what was initially in the proposal. In a good part of the field, not least when it comes to the actual review of the law we adopt today, it will be possible to get further into the future by re-examining the Storting in the next period.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-04-lower.ana.ud1653e358	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-04-lower.ana.ud1653e361	First, about transparency around the accounts of the aggregates. When the Left launched its proposal, all other parties said it was unnecessary. In the letter, such as: Inge Ryan of SV signed, it says that this is the best we can do for ourselves. Now it is said that with our proposal we kick open doors. What has happened this past week is that the public debate has reoriented SV on this issue, and that is good. So a little bit to the argument that SV uses around openness. I agree with Ballo that this is a long step further, and anyone who has contributed to it deserves honor. But Ballo uses a practical reason when he doesn't want to bring with private actors: it leads to a lot of work, etc. The same has been true of Inge Ryan in terms of transparency in the accounts of aggregates. This concern is greatly exaggerated. My question is: does Ballo see that this situation-based practical approach to the principle of transparency has a negative impact on the community sector, how exactly is this type of objection most often used when trying to undermine the principle of publicity in practice?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-04-lower.ana.ud1653e372	I think Kvassheim argues well for more publicity. I think that the Storting is in a completely different situation than the private actors I talked about instead, in the sense that we should stimulate to absolutely as much openness as possible. And I can see that it is well established what SV believes about it. We believe that where there are no factual reasons to hold back information – and what we are talking about then is privacy considerations – we should present everything openly. But we must therefore ensure that privacy is taken into account. And I think we're going to get it right. In the case of private actors, I'm open to the reflections that Kvassheim brings, but at first it makes sense to gain experience with the new law, and then we'll see if you can go further. And that is how the public will have a responsibility for the necessary information coming out on behalf of the actors with whom they have agreed. So the disclosure law is going to take care of those considerations here as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-04-lower.ana.ud1653e380	In his reply to me some time ago, Olav Gunnar Ballo objected to the size of the business in order to possibly integrate into the law health, care and education services that carry out statutory tasks. Then my question becomes to the representative Ballo now: is it the size of the business that is the problem, or is it the principle that is important here? And if that is the size, why was it not possible to meet the proposals from the Right and the Advance Party and to participate in the possible rewording of the proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-04-lower.ana.ud1653e385	You can find answers to this in the Bondevik government's own proposal. So it's basically the government that Elisabeth Aspaker himself has supported, which has come up with the proposals she herself has made that you should go further. So I think we have succeeded in the review of the Justice Committee in going further in some fields. So the question is, should you, as you say, take it all out? So we've chosen not to do that because we're going to have experience with it first. There may well be arguments for looking at private activities and their requirements. But at first we think it's the public that's going to take care of that, and then we'll see what the experience is after a few years.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-04-lower.ana.ud1653e390	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-04-lower.ana.ud1653e393	Today, Odelstinget adopts a law that significantly strengthens the right to transparency in public activities. We welcome that on the part of the Christian People's Party. I think it is gratifying that the new government followed up the previous government in this way, and that, despite some dissensions, the proceedings of the Judicial Committee largely express an agreement in such an important area. I'm glad. With that, there is also a basis for believing that we are strengthening what we can call the rule of law Norway, and that this law will also provide greater legal certainty for the population. The new disclosure law will apply to more establishments than the applicable law. Now included as a general rule is a limited liability company and foundations which are essentially owned by the public. What does that mean in practice? That means, for example,. increasing the transparency of the use of money and the practice of the rules on the stability of inter-municipal electricity companies, waste management companies and waterworks. I have no doubt that it can have a preventative effect and contribute to an even better management of values that are basically owned by the population. It may well be that if we leave this debate next to the debate we had on the Annual Report of the Data Protection Authority, we will find some nuances in the debate, a little after what focus you have. In this respect, I would like to comment on the proposal from the Right and the Progress Party to further extend the scope of the law to private legal entities in the field of health and social services, or the education service for that part, which provides such services as the public initially has a statutory responsibility to provide. It is not difficult to sympathise with the argument that public opinion should follow public money, but at the same time we are concerned that the proposal will lead to some unnecessary red tape in many small institutions which, on behalf of the public, provide services to the public as reasonably and effectively as possible. So we find arguments both for and against, and then we are pleased with the proposal from the Left, which also addresses this issue. That is proposal No. 9 and looks at an investigation of these questions in the future. We are going to support this proposal. We agree that as much transparency as possible around the management's use of funds is important. We therefore support proposal No. 3 from the minority. Here the government is asked to investigate and come back to the Stortinget with proposals on how best to ensure the transparency of what organisations and foundations receive from public funds and from whom the money comes. It is important to stress that the new disclosure law will apply to more types of information than the existing law. For example, it is added. up to a substantial narrowing of the exceptions for documents for the internal preparation of the case obtained from the outside. In the case of foreign policy interests, too, there is a restriction on access to exemption from public access. The same thing, which has been the subject of the debate, applies to tendering. And a substantial extension of the right of access to the municipal sector follows from the decisions taken later. We are pleased by the Christian People's Party that access to make exceptions to transparency is being reduced. whereas it must now be possible to derogate from transparency only where transparency may have harmful effects and, as a general rule, only those parts of the document containing potentially harmful information must be exempted from public access; In addition, the rules of procedure are strengthened. We agree with the Committee when it points out that there is a need to review the legislation on pardons, and I hope the Minister of Justice can assure the Storting that this work will be prioritised. We also support the minority's proposals for law evaluation. So finally, in the case of the second proposal from the Left, on the accounts, I refer to what Mr Ballo said, that this will be dealt with in a good way, and in this way we refer to what has already been prepared for debate in the Presidency.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-04-lower.ana.ud1653e412	This is a great day for the Left. The history behind the new Public Relations Act has been taken up earlier, but the background to the involvement of the Left is among others. In 1997, the Jagland Government’s revision of the Public Public Health Act was in the process of being finalized. This led the Left to create its own ‘gift message zero’, where we addressed the need for greater transparency and transparency in the administration. We followed this up in the Bondevik I government. A public hearing was then set up, led by the Harald Hove of the Left, and on the basis of their work, Bondevik II’s proposal for a new Public Prosecutor’s Act came in spring 2005. That's why I repeat: this is a great day for the Left. I note that the Committee's position is largely based on the proposition put forward by Minister of Justice Odd Einar Dørum. In other words, access to exemption from transparency has been narrowed, while the scope of the law has been extended to include forms of organisation such as: State and limited liability companies. The new constitutional provision on freedom of expression now establishes the principle of disclosure. The general principle of transparency is now governed by the Constitution, and what we are dealing with today is based on the exceptions from public opinion. By the way, the basic law establishing the principle of disclosure was also one of the instruments proposed by the Left in our «burden notification zero» in 1997. The rapporteur of the case and the representatives of the other parties have made a good introduction into what changes the new law represents. The left is particularly satisfied with and will emphasise that access to exemption from public disclosure is now much more closely linked to actual information or to parts of a document and not to the whole document. In combination with the intensification of the principle of more openness, this is very, very important. However, the rule of extra-publicity would be significantly better if proposal No. 4, from the Progress Party, was adopted. The left will therefore vote in favour of this proposal. Other important proposals include: much greater transparency in documents relating to public procurement, which is important – as I mentioned earlier – in order to combat corruption. Secondly, increased publicity in municipalities around the country and in the foreign service is also important. The new law distorts access to the so-called internal documents of the administration. At this point, the Left believes that the law should nevertheless give a narrower exemption. We will therefore vote in favour of proposal No. 5, from the Progress Party. This with the internal administrative documents may be one of the main areas for the further development of the legal framework in view of minor exceptions and thus greater transparency. Therefore, it is important that the Government uses the regulatory home in Section 14, so that internal documents become public. This is not least the case in health enterprises, at universities and colleges, in county offices and in other large government agencies. The extension of the scope of the law is important. In this respect, the Left considers that questions of further extension should be addressed in relation to the situations in which private individuals carry out public tasks. This was one of the issues that the minority in the Hove Committee would have included in the Public Health Act. In the consultation round, this gained some support, while it is easy to understand that there is a need for a larger distribution than has been achieved so far. The proposal from the Right and the Party of President, proposal No. 2, which is supported by the Left, only takes a part of this issue when private people solve public tasks. That is why the Left hopes that proposal No will be accepted. 9, which I'm going to present with this. Otherwise, we support the setting of new law, with the clarifications that have been made, and we also support minority proposals No. 1 to 5. This with publicity is often an adult political task, but at least I want to, because this has been an important honor for the Left, promise that the new, young generation Left people will also raise public awareness as an important political task in the future. And as liberals, you're always on the go, you never finish, you can always do things better. It must also apply to the law on the right of transparency.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-04-lower.ana.ud1653e435	The representative Lars-Henrik Michelsen has taken up the proposal he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-04-lower.ana.ud1653e440	First of all, I have to say that the Labour Party is in order for the Presidency to look at a regulatory framework that can give the most transparency about the use of the funds of the large-scale groups, but at the same time balancing the interests of privacy. What I am asking about proposal No. 8 from the Left, what the Left means by ‘full transparency’. This applies, for example: all attachments? And if that, how does Left think that it should be balanced against privacy?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-04-lower.ana.ud1653e445	Publicity, we have said in this debate, is one of the pillars of democracy. It is, I think, a truth today that this with politicians' wages and funds going to the parties is often very much more critical. In order to avoid suspicion, I think it is important for the parties to open up their accounts. As far as the left is concerned, it has been fully transparent what we have been doing, and that is what we also believe should be the general rule for the big groups.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-04-lower.ana.ud1653e450	I have a question about the same thing that Thomas Breen asked about. I also register through media postings that Left, affordable enough, is for more publicity. But it can almost now seem as if you have made it a competition to have so much publicity that you have forgotten that there is also privacy to take. Sees the Left that there may be a need for a type of procedure against the accounts of the Stortinget that ensures privacy protection, for example: by clearing the annexes – not to withhold information from the public with which the public should be aware, but simply, e.g.: in order to avoid next-round media coverage of health-related representatives who go to a psychiatrist? Is there not also a reason for the Left to be concerned?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-04-lower.ana.ud1653e455	The left is very concerned about privacy. I believe, however, that when this has become a debate on how the party groups spend their money, it is precisely because one has had a culture that this has been kept secret. It creates a suspicion, which also creates a greater debate than if it had been open. Even though the left opened up its accounts and you got some major media queries, it turned out afterwards that it was a logical explanation of the way you spent the money. Media also has a moral responsibility, and I think that once they get transparency, they will also assess whether there are strong human interests, privacy considerations, to care for when they're going to look up how the party groups spend their money.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-04-lower.ana.ud1653e460	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-04-lower.ana.ud1653e464	Today's Odel Sting debate sets a preliminary finish line for a reform process that has been in progress for more than ten years, with the main objective of strengthening public access to public information. The proposal in the proposal will significantly enhance public access to the law in force. It is therefore very gratifying that we have a broad opening around the principle of publicity here in our society, and that the proposal promoted by the government of Bondevik II, which the government of Stoltenberg II has put forward, has essentially received the support of an overall committee, and that no fractions have objected to any of the proposals that will strengthen transparency. This reflects the importance of the principle of disclosure as one of the cornerstones of our democracy. I can't go into all the proposals in the proposition, but I want to draw out three points that I consider to be particularly important, and to which it is particularly gratifying that an overall committee has joined. The first point: the extension of the scope, to which several of the representatives have been subject, so that maritime legal entities over which the public has a dominant influence will be subject will be governed by the law. It is at the heart of the proposal and ensures that the reorganisation of public activities does not result in a reduction of transparency. Secondly, the proposal provides for a significant strengthening of the right of access in the counties and municipalities by the fact that, as a general rule, preliminary correspondence within the county or municipality could no longer be exempted under the exceptions for internal documents. This may be the most important single point of the proposal towards increased transparency, because the right to information about the activities of municipalities and municipalities is an important prerequisite for a well-functioning democracy at local level. Thirdly, the proposal also provides for a significant increase in the transparency of public acquisition processes, which have also been discussed by a number of stakeholders, among others. by means of protocols and offers in tendering procedures, as a general rule, cannot be exempted after the choice of supplier has been made. This point is important, because a high degree of transparency here can help to counteract corruption and other illegitimate public acquisitions. I would otherwise like to express my agreement with the change in the purpose paragraph proposed by an overall committee, in which the promotion of trust in the public is highlighted as a fundamental purpose of the law. I also agree with the clarification proposed in the section on the use of public information. I also agree with the amendments proposed by the Committee members of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left in relation to the rules on disclosure concerning lists of candidates for public positions and the exemption for documents exchanged as part of consultations with Sametinget etc. The majority of the Committee shall support two requests in addition to the legislative proposal. To the proposals for request decisions on the evaluation of the law, I would like to point out that I am positive about this, because it is important to ensure that the new law is practised in accordance with the intentions of increasing transparency. However, for the evaluation to give a correct picture, it is central that the law must have worked for a period before it is evaluated. I therefore agree that an evaluation should not take place until the next majority period, as proposed by the members of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left. I have also noticed that the same members assume that the exemption for internal documents is given particular attention during this evaluation. Such an indication of time, I must be angry to say, does not mean that we stop thinking about the development of the disclosure law in this magnificence period, we should be open and have a critical look at how it works, perhaps especially against the practice of the legal rules. Secondly, with regard to the proposal for a request decision by the members of the Workers’ Party and the Socialist Left to consider whether the archive regulation should be amended to require the administration to record internal documents, this will be followed up in the regulatory work that has to be implemented before the new law can come into force. I have also noticed that the members of the Committee from the Right and the Progressive Party are also asking for an assessment of these rules. The Committee also has a recommendation on admissibility cases which are not formalised as a request decision. To the Committee's request for the Government to review today's legislation on pardons, and in so far as it is also practice, and to come back to the Stortinget with proposals on how greater transparency can be implemented, I would point out that I agree that there should be more transparency on such matters than what has been practised so far, where all documents and information in such cases have been excluded from the public domain. As well as the case rapporteur, and several others, were involved, it can help to strengthen the legitimacy of the pardon system, increase the understanding of the pardon as the institute and perhaps also improve the management of the pardon as a tool. I am prepared to follow up the recommendation and come back to the matter before the end of this large-scale period. For information, I mention that the Ministry of Justice's law department has recently assessed the issue of information on the outcome of a pardon case subject to legal confidentiality, and answered this denunciation. The background to this case was that the Civil Ombudsman had come to the same conclusion in a complaint case, and on this basis the Ministry of Justice will change its practice and will not then refuse transparency in the outcome of the appeal, i.e. information concerning a named person is pardoned or not. In this way, we are told that the new debate on the disclosure law has already had an impact in addition to the bill.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-04-lower.ana.ud1653e492	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-04-lower.ana.ud1653e495	A wise man once told me that this law is probably so much about policy against bureaucracy as politics against politics. I think the treatment has actually shown that. I must be allowed to say that I think it makes sense for the Council of States that he agrees with what the majority has pointed out. Something else might have been a little weird, but OK. What I want to ask the Council of State is what I experienced most during the treatment, namely the lack of coordination and understanding in the application of the law we have had to date. In this way, I would like to hear what kind of thoughts the Council of State has with regard to ensuring that the law is now to be administered, understood and used in the most uniform way possible, so that the practice in the whole country becomes as good as we want, and as good as possible is the ambition of the Storting. In this respect, I expect that he has some thoughts, perhaps both about resource use and about possibly creating a training programme or equivalent.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-04-lower.ana.ud1653e502	I believe that the replicator here is concerned with perhaps the most important thing to ensure that people actually get insight. One thing is to pass the law, and then it depends on two factors, that people use the law – it is important, that people out there get information about the law – and that those who receive the requests for transparency know how to treat it, and that it is treated quickly. I must admit that we see that there are differences in how individual departments deal with the rules, how many requests for transparency are passed on, etc. , and we see differences in relation to municipality, county, etc. I believe that when we are about to design an entry into force proposition regarding this new law, it is central that we get the question of training in place, and it is also central to putting in place arrangements that ensure good information, not only to the public, but also to the users of the law.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-04-lower.ana.ud1653e507	In an interview with NTB in December, Storberget stated that it was not appropriate ‘to withdraw the bill from Stortinget even though there is a clear need to improve it’. In what areas does the Council of State consider that the red-green parties have contributed to improving the law and increasing transparency? My impression is rather the opposite, that where other parties have suggested going further, among other things. in the field of health, social and educational services, red-green batches have actually been opposed.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-04-lower.ana.ud1653e514	I have not heard of one area where this law has become worse by the treatment in Stortinget or during this time, so the bill is there. The amendments for which the majority is now being implemented, whether it is in a clear legal text, can be read by the representative himself, either in the case of candidate lists or in the case of the purpose paragraph, or through the request decisions that lie there, with very clear indications as to what kind, for example, is. The type of evaluation to be carried out is in the direction of more transparency. So here I believe that the majority, and the Workers' Party and the SV, through their comments and their proposals have just contributed to the improvement of the law.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-04-lower.ana.ud1653e519	It's a phenomenon that I want to focus on. It's the phenomenon that the government of Bondevik is making a proposition, and the Left is sitting with the Council of State. So the government goes by, and the three parties that have made the proposition suddenly come to completely different conclusions than what their own government initially did. In one field, Dørum reached exactly the same conclusion as the current Minister of Justice, namely that in the case of private activities for which the public is responsible, it is necessary to be careful to make the same demands. Could the Storberget elaborate on Dørum's considerations, and does he share the views that Dørum had when he presented the proposition?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-04-lower.ana.ud1653e524	I think I'm going to be careful to elaborate on my predecessor's views. At the same time, I would like to say that with regard to this bill that Odelstinget is considering today, it is a groundbreaking work, which the Bondevik II government got out, and which is now being joined by other parties. I am most concerned about cultivating the consensus you now have on such an important principle, rather than drawing up large party-political dividing lines. At the same time, I have to worry about saying that the process that the majority now points to in relation to evaluation, the moments that lie there, both in terms of internal documents and other matters, point in a clear direction. Moreover, the majority have made these new legislative changes which, in my view, involve more transparency.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-04-lower.ana.ud1653e529	It could be tempting to continue where Ballo left off. He has probably noticed that one of the previous government parties follows the proposals in the proposition to a large extent. I am more concerned about asking the Minister of Justice about what he was talking about in his speech, namely the practice of the rules of law, which was also the first representative. The big mountain talked about the departments. I'm just as concerned about how this law is being practiced, and should be practiced in Municipality-Norway. It often has to do with the ability of individual citizens to safeguard their interests and the legitimacy of the treatment of individuals by municipalities. How does the Minister of Justice see that the law we are now adopting can help to strengthen the practice of Kommune-Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-04-lower.ana.ud1653e536	I mentioned the departments, and I also mentioned the municipalities, not in my concerns, but the description that there are differences, and that shows that practices can be changed towards more transparency completely regardless of what kind of legal text we have. There are three elements that I believe are important for the municipalities. It is to provide citizens, citizens, good information about the new law currently in force, and resources should be used. I hope to come back to that in connection with the proposal for entry into force. The same applies to the issue of out-of-town procedures and competences, which may need to be upgraded under these provisions, not only in terms of transparency but also in relation to the barriers to transparency. There's a lot of information that shouldn't be out there, and it's probably so important to focus on, for example: the rules of professional secrecy, for faulty disclosure can hurt many. The last thing is that I think we also need to look at the question of legal aid on this issue, where people are standing and standing to gain insight, whether it is local or central, and whether it is possible to assist in providing more legal aid in such cases. But we have to get back to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-04-lower.ana.ud1653e542	I record that the representative Ballo is shocked that some people are influenced by hearings and public debate. On the other hand, the Council of State, when he was in the Public Committee of the Norwegian Press Association, was open for recording to change. Expectations were made about it in many areas, including: with regard to the actors carrying out missions in the social and health sectors. Now that was not the result of the Stortinge reading, but my question to the Council of State is: does he see that the Left's proposal to consider this in a broader context and not linked to a particular sector is a good reason that there can be good arguments for going further, and that it is therefore important that the proposal that the Left is promoting today in this area is endorsed?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-04-lower.ana.ud1653e547	I've stated that you'll be able to evaluate extensions of the law, and I think the majority are doing it here today. I'd like to repeat that. With regard to the issue that the representative is now raising, it is my opinion that the Left's proposal is currently relatively limited in relation to the type of activity involved. I would like to call on the Left to convert the proposal for a transmission proposal, because I believe that the Government should be open to the evaluation process that is coming, to look at all possibleities in relation to more transparency also for that type of institution. But what is in proposal No. 9 a.m. The requirement to be a monopolistic would, of course, limit it quite a bit. So my call is really to turn it into a transmission proposal so that we don't get it down, so that we take this well into the evaluation process we're going into.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-04-lower.ana.ud1653e554	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-04-lower.ana.ud1653e557	With its decision today, Odelsting will make decisions that will give us better and more effective tools to ensure more publicity and in the fight against corruption and economic crime. In the Soria Moria Declaration, the Workers' Party, the SV and the Centre stated that we should intensify efforts to combat economic crime and strengthen the investigation and management work to expose the black economy, including money laundering. Priority shall be given to the competence of the local police authorities and cooperation with tax authorities, social security funds and social authorities. We know that there is corruption also in the public domain. In this area there is probably great darkness, but according to the Municipal Report has 6 pst. by the municipalities they reported having experienced corruption or attempted corruption. The majority of the Committee, consisting of the Workers’ Party, the SV and the Right, therefore propose a substantial strengthening of the right to transparency in public procurement matters under the Public Acquisitions Code. Today, it is possible to exempt both the protocols drawn up in connection with competitive tendering under this legislation and the tenders received without a time limit. Following the proposal, it will only be possible to exempt the protocols and offers until the choice of suppliers is made, unless the documents have an offer to enable them to or to be exempted under other exceptional rules. Today, there is too much room for legislation to exempt documents relating to public acquisitions. That is why I am pleased that the Stortinge today adopts a significant extension of the right of access. Mr Ellingsen himself pointed out that public acquisitions in today’s Norway amount to more than DKK 200 billion a year, and increased transparency can help to ensure that these funds are effectively used. The complaint subject of public proceedings, which deals with complaints of breach of the tender law itself, has been received approximately. 850 complaints since it came into operation on 1 January 2003, and complaints have been supported by three out of four cases. This indicates that there are many breaches of the legislation and that, as a result, there is a need for the increased control that supplementary supervision will entail. We have also had experience in recent times, such as this. in the case of the waterworks at Akershus, which shows that there will be a need for the increased transparency control. Increased publicity, together with intensified efforts by police, tax authorities, social security and social security authorities, will give us far more effective tools in the fight against corruption and other economic crime, and that is what we are ensuring with the decisions today. Finally, I would like to say that I also support the fact that the presidency is now going to have a review of the accounting reporting by the large-scale groups, and I agree that we will make the accounts more accessible to the public. But I have to admit that I have left suspicion, when you come up with this now, to be more concerned with media lookups than the principle of more publicity for the Stortinget. So the left had the opportunity to talk about these issues when the Left's own Justice Council Dørum presented the matter. I also record that the representative Michelsen from the Left is leaving privacy concerns to the media. I am sorry to say that I do not find particularly reassuring.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-04-lower.ana.ud1653e578	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-04-lower.ana.ud1653e581	This is an important day for all those who are concerned with transparency in administration, and it is important for us in the Left to have the legislative decisions that are being taken today, after we have been leading the work of increasing public awareness for nine years. As several have pointed out, the result is a significant strengthening of the principle of disclosure. The law we are adopting today has a clearly extended scope, the exemption is considerably undermined, and there will be important changes in the transparency of organ-in-house documents. What is also important to record is that the treatment of this matter, over nine years, has increased the exposure in several lots in this area. I am glad that in 2006 a Labour Party Council is helping to complete this work, and not the one who was sitting ten years ago. The result of the treatment we have today is almost full support for the proposal of the Bondevik II Government. Through the consultation round you have had and the debate you have had, it has been shown that there has been a need for adjustments and improvements. I had hoped that there would be even greater results, but I see that this kind of process in openness, with input from various actors, has a less significant role now, with majority rule, than it has had before. A lot has been done in this area, but there is a need to do more, and there I refer to the Left's proposal, as among others. The Council of State was now making a positive point. With regard to candidate lists, I believe that today's practice suggests that there is an increase in the transparency of candidate lists. This has been proposed by the Left before, but the proposal has been voted down in the Stortinget. There is also a need for a change in the transparency of the Riksrevision, as I mentioned in a previous article. The process that you have carried out now, over many years, has also led to a positive impact in other areas, among others. as regards the fundamental law fixing of the principle of disclosure, and that the disclosure law is now applied de facto to the Storting. I would like to promote the distributed proposal on transparency in the accounts of the large-scale groups. This is not regulated by the Public Health Act, and therefore there was no alternative to promoting it with the law. The size itself and the party groups decide how to organize it. I assume that the proposal will be sent to Stortinget and come up for consideration. Transparency of batch accounts is important in order to legitimise the aid scheme that finances the work of the groups. It would have a bad signal effect if we turned the thumb down for this proposal while arguing for increased transparency in a number of other areas. The objections that arise are classic objections which undermine the public policy, for example: in the municipalities. Privacy concerns are being addressed in the municipalities today and can of course also be addressed in this area. And finally, openness is not a press issue. It's about respect for citizens and voters. Transparency provides a basis for debate and participation. Knowing is simply important in order to be able to participate in democracy.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-04-lower.ana.ud1653e602	The representative of Gunnar Kvassheim has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-04-lower.ana.ud1653e605	If I understood the representative of the Left Michelsen correctly, he would like the Left to receive the credit that we are dealing with this law today. I have to disappoint him a little. Eleven years ago, a letter was forwarded from the Prime Minister's office – the letter originally came from the Secretary of the Workers' Party and myself – to the Government and the Councils, asking for an overview of what matters the Councils had in the drawers, and which they had intended to promote to the elections, so that they had a little overview of it. It was not public, and it was not supposed to be. There was a lot of standing here in the hall and outside and led to a state secretarial committee being set up. It continued to work under the Bondevik I government. Then a big message was submitted with various suggestions, but Stortinget was not satisfied and asked a person to look for better solutions. Then a public law committee was set up, where I was delighted to be present, not as a representative of the Workers' Party, but as a representative of myself, and that is a quite pleasant situation. We worked for four years. I can assure my colleagues that there were not many rocks that we did not turn both once and twice to find the intersections to get more transparency, which was the aim, and which the debate here shows that we have succeeded. Much of what was proposed was followed up in the proposal of the Bondevik government and retained by the new government. I am pleased that they have said that this should be delivered in the next period. I think it makes sense to let it go for a while to see if the practice is also in line with what is intended, before you start looking for new intersections. It's demanding. Then I would like to comment briefly on the proposal of the Party of Advances and the Right, and of which the Left has a variant, to extend the scope to include private enterprises in public areas, to put it that way. I supported it in the investigation, the NOU, and I still have a sense of that proposal. But we're not going to exaggerate the difference, that's how much more transparency it gives, because many of the businesses that this will apply, for example. private nursing homes will be subject to public supervision. Those supervisory reports will be available. Accounts will be available. The agreement with the municipality will be available. What you're left with can be important enough, but it's a little bit more trivial. So the difference is not dramatic between the two proposals. But I think, as the Council of State suggested to the Left, that the Left should follow the request and make its proposal for a transmission proposal. It would then be clearer as part of the order in terms of what is to be considered in the follow-up. I want to say that this law gets better than the old one. It will give more transparency in several areas. It will provide clearer and narrower derogations. The most important thing, in my view, is that it will give much greater openness in the field of foreign affairs, where it was previously quite closed in terms of international regulatory development. It is the few who have commented. In fact, I believe that with the situation we have with EEA membership, it will prove to be one of the most important things.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-04-lower.ana.ud1653e616	I would like to thank the Council of State for so positively grasping the recommendation of an overall committee on greater transparency around the pardon. However, I think the Council of State might have been a little vague when it could happen that the Storting could have presented a case, and he suggested during the pouring period. I do think that the debate that has taken place around the pardon institute is such a good thing about the legitimacy of this system that it is quite important that we get clarity and come up with new driving rules for this. I would essentially challenge the Minister of Justice whether he does not also see that this is a significant problem, that it is important to restore or ensure legitimacy, and ask him if he can be a little more precise when the Storting can get a case on this. I wish you could work as quickly as possible to ensure that this could happen at least next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-04-lower.ana.ud1653e623	I asked for the word just to bring a depression to Kvassheim and what he took up. I see it as unmistakably positive that the Left has such a strong commitment as they also make clear here today, both in relation to the content of the disclosure law and in order to ensure general transparency. That's exactly what I agree with. But what we're registering is that when you're going to design a legal text, it's a demanding piece of work. It requires assessments, it requires professionals to get together. I find Svein Roald Hansen well illustrated how demanding this work can be. Then we have respect for the fact that when two different state councils come to the same conclusion, on the basis that this has been carefully assessed, it is wise to gain experience before proceeding. What I said was not, of course, what you could get the impression from Kvassheim, that the Left in shock and disbelief should have come to other conclusions at the moment they evacuated the government premises and sat down elsewhere in order to devise new policies. What I said was that once it's done such a good job by its own government, you don't take inwards to argue materially, as you've done until now. That's where you might suspect that getting back into the opposition role gives you a certain need to pursue over-the-counter policies in this area as well. But that's how the opposition role can be, and we just have to respect that.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-04-lower.ana.ud1653e630	I just want to respond to the Aspaker challenge. After all, we are fully in line with the need to strengthen the legitimacy of the pardon institution. The round I got caught a few weeks after I joined, is something we don't want, because the pardon is an institute that is useful in many ways. People's lives can change, which can make them the basis for making a correction. That is why the Ministry of Justice will already change its practice in terms of transparency as regards the outcome of pardons. We don't want to wait too long. But in the case of a further review of the whole procedure against pardon, and of the other case documents, I repeat what I said in my post, that we aim to present this during this accumulation period. The same considerations that apply in relation to improving the transparency and understanding of the recognition system also apply to the work we should do as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-04-lower.ana.ud1653e638	The representative Svein Roald Hansen recalls that the working party government at the time worked on this matter in the mid-1990s. That's right. And when Prime Minister Jagland in 1997 was asked by the Business of the Day about a revision of the Public Service Act in order to increase the transparency of the administration, he replied that we are at least working on the law. It was this non-exposure that left put down a sample that made the ‘no-clearance message’. So even if the work was in progress, the «burden message zero» has been crucial for the speed of work and for the direction of work. As far as party accounts are concerned, the debate we have had around it is an example of transparency and debate in transparency. When we ordered that there should be full transparency around these accounts and even provided for it, we were met with a unisoned no from all the other parties. Now they have come to the conclusion that this is an idea which, in essence, is already a basis for what is going on in this area and that our proposal is unnecessary. We'll get back to that next week. Finally, as regards our proposal, which was promoted by the representative of Michelsen, we want to have it transmitted without a proper examination, in the light of the positive comments made by the Council of State, which I saw as a starting point for assessing the issues we are dealing with, in a broader context.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-04-lower.ana.ud1653e647	I understand that my introductory comment could be seen as an attempt to desavure the Left's commitment to more publicity. Let me assure Kvassheim that it wasn't meant to, because the Left has had and has a commitment to transparency. But it's a little illustrative of how demanding it is to find the intersections when the Left of the Bondevik I government had the ability to move the markers. Then there was a big message with some assessments. However, it was not possible to conclude, and Stortinget said: Work on. We got a long story, and it also took a long time for the government to make its proposition after the sample had finished its work. I don't think it's because of what happened in the Bondevik I government, or the fact that it took some time now, so we have to deal with this in this period instead of before the election. I don't think it's because not the Left and not least the former Dørum government council have had a burning commitment to get more. I think it's because the old disclosure law also gave a lot of transparency, and it's been hard to really find the balances and balance points. I've been sitting for four years with not only an engaged Left-Man, Harald Hove, who led the selection, but also other Left-people who were almost more concerned with the public, and who belong to the press environment. So it hasn't lacked constructive ideas, but it's been really hard. That's why I think it makes sense that you now let that law work, and I think it's also important – let me say, since I didn't get it in my previous post – that, as many people have been involved in their posts, you focus on the practice. I think it is that much of the transparency that we now achieve through a clearer and clearer law, hopefully, could also have been achieved by the old law with a different practice. So it's important that the Council of State also follow it up with training and information, and that it's followed up, because there's probably a lot of examples of wanting to exempt things because you want to lie on the edge of the law. But I also think very many of the exceptions that are made, do a little too much on autopilot and are completely unnecessary. That's where the new law is hopefully clearer and clearer.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-04-lower.ana.ud1653e656	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Footage, see page 207]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-04-lower.ana.ud1653e672	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines after the intervention of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-04-lower.ana.ud1653e681	The Committee believes that it is important to identify and detect more crime, and would point out that there should be work to raise the level of punishment for electoral selection, killing, brutality and moral crimes. The percentage of information for moral matters is low, 57.6 pst. according to STRASAK figures, and there is reason to believe that the darkness valleys are large. A majority in the Committee have noted that the level of penalties for selection and sexual abuse against children has increased monthly over the past ten years. This has happened through a combination of law change and change in practice, and it is a step in the right direction. The majority nevertheless believe that there is still a need for tightening up, and will come back to this by handling a new special part of criminal law. I would say that it is sad if, in the debate on justice, we were to end up just discussing stricter penalties and not raising a broader debate on criminal law. We should include: Consider whether, for some types of crime, we should punish more smartly and more effectively. For example, for children and young people who commit criminal acts, a quick and correct response would be more important than a long sentence. That's how we can prevent the beginning of a criminal racetrack. Another example is the many addicts of addiction. Treatment and rehabilitation sentences are more important than long prison sentences. In fact, it is most important to punish the backers and drug crime organisers. The majority will therefore not support the discussion by taking a piece of the law change now, but will take a holistic review of the entire criminal code. The red-green government has already shown in practice that it wants to see the healing. In the budget, extra funds were spent on the entire criminal justice chain. When it comes to discovering and discovering more, I would like to point out that extra funds came to the police. I also want to say that access to increased use of DNA will be a good tool to solve more fractures. Political leadership has given clear signals that, among other things, We know that the government is working on a new criminal paragraph against child abuse. This sentence paragraph takes hold of these criminals before the assault is carried out, that is, he punishes planned assaults. In the budget, we also had the improvement of the auxiliaries in place. I can name Barna's House. Prevention, the content of the soning so that we avoid all the swinging door criminals, and help with a new start after the settlement is all something that needs to be debated. The majority have said that we want more severe punishments for election sentences, killings, gross acts of violence and moral crimes. But we need to see health and have a wide-ranging criminal law debate, not pursue a tabloid criminal and jus policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-04-lower.ana.ud1653e700	The debate we have today is not a taboo debate. We are still seeing examples of rape sentences that lie around today's minimum punishment for rape. And in cases where there is emphasis on aggravating circumstances, the penalty is often no more than one to two years above today's minimum penalty. You can also record cases where you have gone under the prescribed minimum penalty for this type of offence. This is even done in cases where minors have been subjected to such abuse. In dealing with the criminal law, the Progress Party and the Labour Party had a common note, which wanted to increase the minimum penalty for gross rape. This has not happened, rather on the contrary. The Progress Party believes that the developments that have been in recent years cannot go unnoticed. That is why we have promoted this document. The 8th proposal under consideration today. Unfortunately, we have recorded that child abuse has been and is a growing problem. Recent figures from the Central Statistical Office show that only in 2005 it was about. 800 reported rapes and approx. 700 reported issues related to sexual intercourse with children. And here the darkness numbers are not included. I'm going to quote a sentence I found in the committee's attitude to the penal code last time, Innst. O. No 72 for 2004-2005: ‘Punishment is society’s strongest means of governing behaviour’. It is a majority to raise the level of punishment for rape, murder, gross violence and moral crimes, but it is not a political will to do so today. The majority in the committee say there is a need for a tightening up, but that one should come back to it when dealing with a new special part of the penal code. The majority don't take this inward here, they don't raise the penalty level immediately. This is what the Progress Party believes is bad political craftsmanship. If you think this is a big, growing problem, as both the rapporteur and the vote say, then why wait? Do you think the problems will disappear in the next few months? No, this is casualty, and it's keeping the victims of such cases a fool. There is a surprising discrepancy between the words of the Workers' Party and the deeds of the Workers' Party. Therefore, the party that is progressing wants not to wait for a new treatment, but to act now. I would therefore like to refer to the proposal of the Advance Party in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-04-lower.ana.ud1653e715	The representative Solvency Horne has taken up the suggestion she referred to. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 218]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-04-lower.ana.ud1653e733	No one has asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 218]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-04-lower.ana.ud1653e741	The odelsting shall then vote in case No. 1 to 3.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-04-lower.ana.ud1653e749	In the course of the debate, all nine proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1-3, by Jan Arild Ellingsen, on behalf of the Group of the European Progressive Democrats and the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party (Christian Democrats). 4-7, by Jan Arild Ellingsen, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-04-lower.ana.ud1653e839	The President will now deal with proposal No. 2 from the Progress Party and the Right. The proposal concerns paragraph 2, first sentence, point (e) and the third sentence of the first paragraph of Section 2, and reads as follows: ‘Article 2, first sentence, point (e) of the first subparagraph, shall be replaced by the following: legal entity performing health, social or educational services which the public has a statutory responsibility to provide. Laws apply only if the legal entity performs such services. The law shall not apply to individuals entrusted with the performance of such services.§ 2, first paragraph, third sentence, shall be replaced by the following:For enterprises which, after public purchase or the like, come under the letters c, d or e, the laws shall apply from the fourth month following the month in which the conditions were fulfilled.» The left has announced that they will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-04-lower.ana.ud1653e866	Since proposal No 2, from the Progress Party and the Right, was voted down, does the President assume that the Progress Party, the Right and the Left subsidiary will support the third sentence of Section 2 of the suspension? - It's nodding.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-04-lower.ana.ud1653e880	The party of progress has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-04-lower.ana.ud1653e1030	There is an alternative proposal, No. 4th from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The second sentence of the first paragraph of Article 11 shall be replaced by the following:The Agency shall provide transparency if public access concerns outweigh the need for exemption.’; The left has announced that they will support the proposals of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-04-lower.ana.ud1653e1116	There is an alternative proposal, No. 5, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Section 14 shall be replaced by the following:Where necessary to ensure defence internal decision-making procedures, the body may grant exemptions from the transparency of documents drawn up by the body for its own internal case-law. (a) documents or parts of documents containing the final decision of the body in a case; (b) general guidelines for the proceedings of the body; (c) references to matters decided by the King of the Council of State; (d) precedent cards and the like, but not if the card reproduces internal assessments; (e) information drawn by the body under the Act of Administration § 11 d; (f) information obtained by the officials of the body by sight or by examination of external relations; and (g) final report of a formally reduced working group as well as final repeat reports of the activities or management branches.» The left has announced that they will support the proposals of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-04-lower.ana.ud1653e1232	The party of progress has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-04-lower.ana.ud1653e1399	There is an alternative proposal, No. 6 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Section 32 is replaced by the following:Decisions under this Act may be appealed to the Complaints Board for Documentary Publicity. Appeals against decisions in a department shall be handled by the King of the State Council after the complainant has given an opinion on the matter. A decision to grant transparency cannot be appealed against. If the person who has requested transparency has not received a reply within five working days of receipt of the request, this shall be considered as an appeal against the first subparagraph. The rule in the first sentence does not apply in cases falling under the third paragraph of Section 13 and when questions of downgrading have to be submitted to another body. Otherwise, the rules of Chapter VI of the Administrative Act apply as far as they fit.The decision of the Board of Appeal is a special ground of coercion under Chapter 13 of the Enforcement Act to municipalities and county councils and legal entities covered by the first paragraph of Section 2 (b) to (d).
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-04-lower.ana.ud1653e1424	There will then be a vote on proposal No. 7 from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-04-lower.ana.ud1653e2048	B and C will be sent to Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure. It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-04-lower.ana.ud1653e2061	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-04-lower.ana.ud1653e2069	During the debate, the representative Solvency Horne, on behalf of the Progress Party, put forward the following proposals: ‘Decision to the Act amending the Law of 22 May 1902 No 10 Ordinary Citizenship II Law 22 May 1902 No. 10 General Civilian Penalty is amended as follows: the second paragraph of Section 192 is replaced by the following:The sentence is unconditional imprisonment for at least 3 years if: [[Penalties]] [[Penalties]] (a) sexual intercourse was intercourse, or (b) the culprit has developed a condition referred to in point (b) of the first subparagraph in order to achieve sexual intercourse. The first paragraph of Section 195 is replaced by the following:The person who has sexual relations with children under 14 years of age is punished by imprisonment up to 10 years of age. If sexual intercourse was sexual intercourse, the sentence is imprisonment for at least 3 years. IIThe law shall enter into force immediately.’ This proposal will be replaced by the Committee's vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-04-lower.ana.ud1653e2165	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-04-lower.ana.ud1653e2175	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-04-lower.ana.ud1653e2218	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word under Section 37(a) of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
