ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-15-lower.ana.ud1937e38	The representative, Carl I. Hagen, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-15-lower.ana.ud1937e41	On behalf of the representative Siv Jensen and myself, I would like to make proposals to repeal Section 142 of the penal code.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-15-lower.ana.ud1937e46	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-15-lower.ana.ud1937e60	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 261]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-15-lower.ana.ud1937e76	At the request of the Family and Culture Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that there be a succession of up to three lines with replies from the Council of State post. In addition, it is proposed that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the time allocated, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-15-lower.ana.ud1937e85	The changes we are now going to make in the law on film and videograms are being made to bring the law into line with the new section 100 of the Constitution. In addition to making use of the Basic Law § 100, the proposition is that age limits on cinemas are consistent in all Nordic countries. All parties agree that common Nordic age limits are a clear advantage. There is also broad agreement to maintain the rule of the film and videogram law, which means that children up to three years of age below the prescribed age can watch the film as a result of an adult. However, there is some disagreement about the application of the amended Constitutional Paragraph. The majority, the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre, believe that it should continue to be prohibited to show films or videos as ‘incrimination’, as it is called. I guess these parties will explain their vision. I just notice, with a certain sense of humor, what the government adds up to. As stated in the remarks of the Government Parties: ‘In the assessment of whether a view will ‘injure nailed’, emphasis must be placed on the proximity of the sexual narrative to, for example, whether it contains strong emphasis on sexual organs. In addition, the presumption, the extent of sexual portrayals and the purpose of the descriptions may have implications for the assessment of the criminality of the demonstration.’ So you have to measure the distance of the film lens from the sexual organs and how many minutes of the total length of the film shows the sexual organs. It could be a very special job for those who work with it. I imagine decisions like: a ban is being imposed on this film, because the objective was probably 28 cm from the gender body, which is 2 cm too short in relation to the department's measurement number, and the body was shown for 7 minutes, which is 1.5 minutes longer than the regulation. There has been too much interesting public proceedings here. The Progress Party, the Right and the Left consider that it is not natural to operate with two different prohibition standards for pornography, respectively for sale and for public viewing. We can't easily see the fundamental difference between what you see at home in the living room and what you can see in a public view. We are therefore in favour of rejecting the proposed new Section 13a. Otherwise, I think it would be very fun to be flying on the wall, as it is called, when the government parties and the ministry with the Council of State, Giske, will discuss the practical application of their proposal. In the case of the Christian People's Party, I suppose they too will deepen their vision, which is in good old Christian Party spirit: everything was better before. And you haven't gotten the growth either of the Internet or of mobile phones, which actually makes us part of an international market. There's really just a lack of notes that color-tv is sin. The Christian People's Party also follows the government parties in that the municipalities should be able to control the content of the cinema offer, as you do under regimes that we don't like to compare with. The strange thing is that the government parties here oppose their own government. The party of progress and the right has more sense of the government's vision here. We cannot support the majority's proposal to maintain the current fourth paragraph of Section 2, as this would obviously be contrary to the Constitutional Act § 100. I would like to point out something that the department has also pointed out, that during the processing of the Basic Law § 100, Stortinget’s intention was that there should no longer be any possibility of making demands on the content of the offer when viewing films and videograms. It has also been suggested that the Government will continue to work with advertising bans on films for children, while the Christian People's Party and the Left will introduce such a ban without any further assessment – incredible enough! The progress party and the right is here in minority. Of course, children must be protected from aggressive advertising by toy and candy producers, etc., but it is not the advertising shown on children's films. It's advertising that targets us adults. In fact, it is limited how many cars, razors, computers or tampons 7-year-olds buy because they have seen advertising of it in cinema. It is also clear that a ban on advertising films shown to children aged 7 years or younger is difficult to implement, because municipalities and cinemas buy advertising packages for viewing in relation to all films. I am referring here to the proposal from the Party of Advances and the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-15-lower.ana.ud1937e131	The representative Ulf Erik Knudsen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-15-lower.ana.ud1937e134	The background to proposals for amendments to the Film and Video Grammar Act is the need to bring the law into line with new Section 100 of the Constitution. There is also an assessment of a Document No. Eight proposals by May Hansen and Magnar Lund Bergo on advertising bans in relation to children's films. The Workers' Party is associated with the Ministry's proposals and assessments. The Labour Party considers that the display of pornography in Norwegian cinemas should not be opened, and further believes that there should be stricter rules for public film viewing than those applicable in the private sector. We agree with the Ministry's proposal for a new Section 13a, which states that it will be prohibited in the context of nutrition to show films or video programmes that are offensive or that violate the propensity. It's supposed to hit porno films that depict general sexual activity. Such a rule would restrict freedom of expression in terms of what can be shown, but, like the Ministry, we believe that this proposal will not conflict with Section 100 of the Constitution. It is important that municipalities have the opportunity to ensure a wide range of cinema services for their citizens. However, the market may make it difficult for municipalities to maintain a cinema offer of the desired width and quality. The Workers' Party therefore believes that the municipalities should still be able to impose conditions on the programme content, and believes that this does not conflict with Section 100. In this context, the majority of the Committee is involved in maintaining the law in force in this field. Like most hearing bodies, the Labour Party is also involved in maintaining the age limits of today. The same applies to the general rule, which means that children up to three years of age below the prescribed age can watch the film with an adult. The Film and Video Grammar Act does not contain any specific rules on advertising in cinema. The Labour Party believes, like the Ministry, that a ban on advertising before the screening of children's films at cinemas can help to dampen the commercial pressure against children. However, the Ministry does not propose the imposition of a ban on advertising and indicates that a majority of the hearing bodies have warned against this. The Ministry considers that there is reason to believe that the economic impact will be greater than that envisaged by the Ministry in its consultation note. The Ministry is afraid that such a ban on advertising will affect the small local cinemas that are largely based on children's and family films. The Workers' Party is pleased that, according to a letter to the Committee, the Ministry will continue to work on the issue of limiting advertising to children's performances. This letter shows that the Ministry, together with the Media and Children’s Ombudsman, will monitor developments in advertising pressures against children and young people in general and for children under the age of seven in particular. The Ministry will also, in consultation with Film & Kino, examine more closely the economic consequences of any ban on advertising on children's shows for the cinemas. The working party is satisfied with this.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-15-lower.ana.ud1937e151	After the review carried out by the Control Committee and the Stortingen of the freedom of expression paragraph of the previous period, it is necessary to make some changes to our other legislation. This proposition is just such an adjustment, both in relation to it and in relation to a reality that maybe not all have come with it. We have recently seen that the principle of freedom of expression is under pressure in a disturbing way. Opinions – even those a little less wise, or those that we don't like, in a subjective, moral perspective – shall not be subject to pre-sensorship. Within the principle of freedom of expression, opinions are not inherently harmful. That they seem offensive is also not good enough reason to prohibit them. As far as film and videograms are concerned, it is important to focus on artistic freedom and expansion. Although in some parts of the business one might not exactly find the greatest artistic expression – to put it mildly – that is definitely not the point. The changes in the law relate to previews of films and videograms shown in industry. With the new framework for freedom of expression, the possibility of pre-sensuring films with a age limit higher than 15 years lapses. I note that the government fears that such a loss of preliminary censorship will result in more pornography in Norwegian cinemas. But the loss of censorship in any case does not give free play so that anything can be shown. The provisions of the Criminal Code continue to regulate what can be demonstrated by pornography in Norwegian cinemas. Nor is it a law of serious entertainment violence, under Section 382 of the Criminal Code. The government finds that the norm in the evaluation of pornography is too liberal under the criminal law. I am also pleased to see how we intend to deal with this in practice in the future, but there will be a debate we will have to take when the new penal code comes. According to the Government, there is a need for self-regulation in the film and videogram law. In this case, it is contrary to the Media Authority’s opinion that the unfortunate consequences of the existence of two different prohibition standards for what should be regarded as acceptable pornography presented in cinemas are shown. Media surveillance claims in its opinion that the standard used in relation to film and videogram law does not differ from the definition of criminal pornography in the penal code § 204. A separate provision of the Film and Video Grammar Act could contribute to the pressure on distributors to provide films for so-called voluntary prior checking at the Media Authority. In the opinion of the Right, this cannot be in line with the prohibition of advance censorship in the Basic Law § 100. Finally, in relation to the ban on advertising aimed at adults on films shown for children seven years of age or younger, we would point out, like the Progress Party, that the consequence of this would be a limited opportunity for the cinema to receive the necessary advertising revenue. It is important to ensure income for the cinema at a time when diversity and quality should also be offered to Norwegian cinema users. Because, in fact, the cinemas are struggling, and advertising revenue may be necessary for some local cinemas to actually be able to hold up. It would probably also be of interest to the red-green government to secure some of these advertising revenues, so that you do not get an increase in the degree of privatisation of the local cinema market as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-15-lower.ana.ud1937e164	We are discussing today amendments to Law 15 May 1987 No. 21 on film and videogram, this to bring the law into line with the new Section 100 of the Constitution. The Ministry has also assessed Document No. 8:31 for 2002-2003 on age limits and advertising bans in relation to children's films, promoted by the representative Magnar Lund Bergo and signed. SV is pleased that the Government does not open up the display of pornography in Norwegian cinemas. whereas there should be stricter limits for such displays in the public space than those in the private sector; It is therefore necessary to maintain a separate pornographic standard in the film and videogram law that is stricter than Section 204 of the Penal Code. It shall be a criminal offence to present in an industry film or videogram that violates, and the majority proposes that this be stated in a new Section 13a of the Film and Video Grammar Act. I want to talk in the rest of my article about the ban on advertising films that are shown to children who are seven years of age or younger. SV is pleased that there is now a majority in Stortinget that suggests that a ban on advertising on children’s films can help reduce the commercial pressure on children. There is now a majority who agree with SV in this. It hasn't been before. Furthermore, the majority say that cinema is a powerful medium that can have a major impact on children. It was this argument that led us in SV, at the representative Magnar Lund Bergo and signed, to promote our proposal in the previous period, and it is now confirmed by a majority in this Chamber. This case has been in the department for many years. Former State Council Valgerd Svarstad Haugland was early out there and supported our proposal, but did nothing about it. And in yesterday's Our Land, which says that there is no one who wants this amendment, she clearly expresses that she was against the law change. This matter she could have dealt with in the previous period and flag position, but it was probably too difficult to go against both the Children's Ombudsman and the Children's Watch. The Christian People's Party and the Left are now promoting exactly the same proposal that SV made in the previous period. I wish they had pushed their own state council and got this through. It is quite special that a case is being trained for so many years. But I now understand that the previous Council of State was against the proposal without flagging its position. There has not been, and is still not, majority in favour of this proposal in the Storting, but the majority are now aware that cinema is a strong medium of advertising that can increase the commercial pressure on children. The majority further point to the Minister of Culture saying that the Government will keep up with developments in the advertising of children's films, and that the economic impact on cinemas should also be assessed in the event of a ban. It is used as an argument that the economic consequences are so great that smaller children's films will be shown. We in SV believe that this has not been documented well enough, and that we need to assess this against the consequences it has for children. We are getting more and more signals about the seriousness and scale of the commercial pressure on children, and what some serious consequences it has. We have responsibility in our committee both for children and for consumer policy, and the government is occupied by children as consumers. The primary request for SV is still a ban on advertising films shown for children from seven years of age and down. We are pleased that the majority now confirms that advertising on such films can be a problem. The majority also say that the digitisation of cinemas will provide new opportunities to limit and regulate advertising spots, and ask the Government to return to Stortinget in an appropriate form. SV is pleased that we have received an impact on parts of our proposal in this case, and will follow up what the majority says in their position. We've been moving the Storting in our direction at this treatment, and we're really excited about that. So we're going to follow up on what's said in the setting that we're going to look at the future digitization and follow closely when it comes to advertising for children's films. We think that's half a win.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-15-lower.ana.ud1937e181	Let me start by giving praise to the Government for taking a settlement with a tailor-made liberalisation of the boundaries of pornography on film and video. On 7 December 2005, the Supreme Court decided that still pictures in the printed paper could be published without any transmission. This was justified by the great difference between stills and films, and the practices of the Media Authority with regard to film approval meant that the still images in question had to be accepted. After reviewing the judgment, the Media Authority stated that this judgment had no significance for the types of films that could be approved. It is therefore alarming that on 12 March 2006, the complaint subject of film and videogram converted the decision of the Media Authority into three individual cases, on the grounds that the decision of the Supreme Court opened the way for a general liberalisation of porn legislation. Christian People's Party therefore supports the proposition, which clearly states in new Section 13a: ‘It is not allowed to appear in nourishment films or videograms that violate nail, including films or videograms that contain close and comprehensive descriptions of sexual activity.’ Furthermore, the Christian People’s Party believes that the enforcement of the law must be based on the practice that took place before the complainant’s decisions on 12 March 2006. Although the Christian People's Party supports the tightening up of the legal text, in our view there are significant challenges to enforcement. This does not take the Government seriously. As the proposal is designed in the proposition, the Christian People's Party believes that law enforcement is being pushed from the media surveillance to the judiciary. This gives long and demanding processes that clearly favor the high-end porn industry, as opposed to those that will take care of the interests of the audience. The Christian People's Party believes that the Media Authority must be able to intervene on its own initiative and prohibit the viewing of films that are contrary to the film and videogram law § 13a or to the penal law § 204 and § 382. Surveillance must not be dependent on watching a movie at the cinema or having it complained about by others in order to intervene. This will not be a pre-sensorship, but an intervention on its own by the Media Authority to prevent a crime. The Christian People's Party therefore promotes proposals where we ask the Government to ensure that the Media Authority has the authority to intervene and prohibit the viewing of films that are contrary to the film and videogram law § 13a or the penal code § 204 and § 382. The Christian People's Party supports the proposition to maintain the obligation to record all films. The Broadcasting Act protects children from advertising in Norwegian television and radio stations that have broadcasts from Norway. The Christian People's Party believes that there should be advertising-free zones, especially for the youngest children. Furthermore, cinema is a stronger medium than television, and the fact that children and young people are subject to increasing commercial pressure daily suggests that there should be no advertising zones. The representative of the Progress Party said that we would introduce a ban on advertising children's performances without justification. The reason is clear: it's about what values we want to communicate to our children. We don't want to put them under commercial pressure. A ban on advertising children's performances in cinema would have reduced the total commercial pressure to which children and families are subjected. The Christian People's Party is pleased that the Government will follow developments in the advertising of children's films and acknowledges that a ban on advertising children's films could help to reduce the commercial pressure on children. The Christian People's Party has been and is committed to reducing the advertising pressure on children and young people, both in film, in cinema, in school and in teaching material. The Christian People's Party wants to take action to reduce the commercial pressure on children and young people and therefore proposes to introduce a ban on advertising in films for children from seven years of age and down. This is in line with the hearing opinions of the Children’s Ombudsman, Consumer Ombudsman and Family & Media. A large majority of the Committee, all with the exception of the members of the Right and the Advance Party, opposes the Government's proposal to deprive municipalities of the right to impose conditions on the content of the cinemas' programme offerings. It is important that municipalities have the opportunity to ensure a wide range of cinemas, where citizens are given the opportunity to watch films other than American action films and romantic comedies. It will be difficult without Section 2, and we therefore go towards the proposed change at this point. Finally, I will address the proposals of the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-15-lower.ana.ud1937e212	The representative, Bjørg Tørresdal, has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-15-lower.ana.ud1937e215	As others have said, the aim of the legislative amendment is to harmonise film and videogram laws with the new Section 100 of the Constitution, on freedom of expression. The centre party supports the changes that have been submitted here, and I would like to associate some comments with the themes that have been addressed by the Center Party in connection with the law change. The commercial pressure against children and young people is increasing. The marketing of different products is becoming more aggressive, and increasingly the marketing is apparently linked to lifestyle and body ideals. The aim of the centre party is to dampen the advertising press against children and young people and to ensure that for this group there are zones in society where the commercial pressure is less. The debate on marketing to children and young people is also part of a larger debate, namely the debate on the ever-increasing consumption we have added and, as we know, a huge environmental tax. The increasingly aggressive marketing helps to build up under increasing consumption. As a mature human being, we are able to both make up an opinion in the choice between different products and think about the pattern of consumption. Source, on the other hand, does not have the same intention to make these assessments. In addition to the impact of the marketing itself on the children, we have to take into account the fact that a large market pressure is involved in building up under a lifestyle of high consumption. Then there's a lot of advertising revenue for cinemas, and it's a challenge if any loss of these revenues can result in a dramatic reduction in cinema supply or even a complete fall away from some places in the country. Therefore, the Centre Party is pleased that the Government will both follow developments when it comes to advertising in children's views, and examine how dependent the cinemas are on these advertising revenues. The Central Party has the slogan: With the heart of the whole country. And our country is made up of small and large municipalities, towns and spreads. In such a country, the market is quite different, depending on the country. This is not just about the fact that advertising revenue can be decisive as to whether the offer exists at all, but it is also about the fact that many places in the country are only financially defenceable with an offeror within the cinema. It is then right, in the view of the Centre Party, that the municipalities still have the possibility to place leadership that ensures a good width of the cinema offer through the concession scheme. This is not about film censorship, it's about the fact that when an offeror gets to dominate a market, it's right to make sure that the supply that comes comes benefits the most in the community. Furthermore, the centre party is satisfied that the government decides that it should not be opened to view pornography in Norwegian cinemas. We support the pre-control of 18-year-old films. But we want to stress that the control is maintained for films for children and young people, and that it is important that previews are possible for these films if the distributor wants it. So it's like the Progress Party hassles with the plural view in this case, especially when it's about pornography. That must be done by the representative Knudsen of the Progress Party, but the Progress Party rules by itself, is talking about where they think the boundaries should go, because it's not that the Progress Party thinks there should be no limit to what is displayed on the cinema? If there are limits, you must manage these limits. There has to be an assessment, and someone has to review these videos. It is then that the case managers who are going to consider films based on the Progress Party's possible limitations are faced with exactly the same visual challenges as those who work within the Government's system – but the tolerance limit will be slightly different.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-15-lower.ana.ud1937e233	I am pleased that the Committee supports the Government's proposal for amendments to the Film and Video Grammar Act. The proposal is primarily a adaptation of the film and videogram law to the new Section 100, on freedom of expression, of the Constitution. In the opinion of the Government, the proposed liberalisation is, inter alia: the abolition of the so-called adult censorship necessary to bring the law into line with Section 100 of the Constitution. At the same time, it is important that the law provides effective protection for children and young people from reports that may seem daunting or perhaps harmful. I am therefore also pleased that the Committee supports the proposal to maintain a ban on the display of pornography in Norwegian cinemas. Although technological development has probably run from the pure pornoquino, the Government believes that it is important and proper to set a different limit to what can be displayed in the public space than is permitted within the four walls of the home. With regard to the system of municipal concession for cinema, the majority of the Committee considers that the Constitution does not prevent the maintenance of access to conditions regarding the content of cinemas' programme offerings. I record that the number of committees with this interprets the Constitution differently from what we used in our proposal, and of course we take note of that. The Party of Progress, Right and Left notes that it is not natural and impracticable to operate with two different standards of prohibition for pornography, one for screening and one for placing on the market. I would like to remind the parties that this is the system we have had from the film law was adopted in 1987 and until the prohibition code was amended through administrative practices, primarily through the decision to allow the film 'The Kingdom of the Swiss' in 2001. I can therefore not see that the Government's proposal involves no major practical problem. When the same parties write in the setting in a minority comment that they can “difficultly see the fundamental difference between what you see at home in the living room and what you can see in a public view”, I have to say that I disagree with that. What to do within the four walls of the home, we're going to put ourselves in the least possible position, but in the public space, where people are exposed to what others are doing, and where an involuntary encounter with things, we're going to have other thresholds, and, once again, especially against children and young people. The difference must be quite clear also for those who want the most liberalisation possible. Well, for individuals it's great that they have to make their own choices, but we're not going to make the choices on behalf of others. Finally, I would say that the Government shares the majority's concern for the increasing commercial pressure on children and young people. These are issues that we will consider on an ongoing basis, not only in the advertising of children's shows in cinemas, but on a broad political basis.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-15-lower.ana.ud1937e248	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-15-lower.ana.ud1937e251	I initially have very little faith that there will be some market in Norway for the public display of pornography, but if that is the case, it is therefore that the government parties want to impose some restrictions on this by ‘injuring shame’. So, according to the comments, one has to assess the proximity of the sexual description and the extent of the sexual description. It's going to be the state council that's going to put these things into practice. There is a need to introduce legislation, a regulatory system and an assessment option. I could imagine hearing the Council of State's thoughts on how far away from the sex organs he thinks the film camera can be in such a context. And how much part of a movie can be sexual intercourse, without being affected by the law?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-15-lower.ana.ud1937e258	The representative Knudsen uses a completely different system than the actual one. What has been the approach of the Storting and the Government to this is that we have used that type of expression, ‘incriminated’, as a general term, among other things. because what is offensive at all times is changing. We have a different threshold for this today than we had 20 years ago, and we might have a different threshold in 20 years. It is therefore the legal apparatus that interprets it at all times into its time. I'm not here to satisfy the representative Knudsen's need for further, more detailed descriptions, but refers to the system that has actually been operating. I also think the representative should take on board that there is a significant difference between what people are doing at home – I think you should put yourself at the lowest possible level, based on the individual's freedom – and what we are exposed to in public space, where we have a common responsibility for what kind of borders actually exist.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-15-lower.ana.ud1937e265	I think it is a little important to give priority to the most important things, for example. abuse of children wrongly referred to as child pornography. It's not pornography, it's assault. I wish you had a focus on it and not on everything else. But to this with the concern of public space: is it that the Council of State has received a wealth of signals from a selection of cinema directors who are just waiting to show pornography in their premises? And a question related to technological development: in fact, there are a lot of people who put out movie clips of themselves, for example. on the Internet. The Internet is also part of public space. The Council of State will also ensure that the Internet is previewed, so that, for example: children or others do not see sexual activity in public space as when the Internet is?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-15-lower.ana.ud1937e274	Yes, the last thing we do is actually contribute, not through censorship, but through turbulence rules, through filters, through systems that enable parents to help their children both to use the Internet in a good way and at the same time to avoid accessing the sites that may seem offensive and perhaps frightening to children. I don't think there's any reason to make fun of that. I actually think it's an important task for the state and the public to facilitate it. But censorship of the Internet has not been proposed by the Government in this context. And no, we haven't received a lot of enquiries from cinema directors. But it is probably also because the law today does not open up for this, and there have therefore not been any market players who have been interested in it. However, we are also not interested in those market players entering Norway as in any other country that has different rules. We want the public space to be such that those who don't want to and don't want to run into this, will also be allowed to let go of it. That's what's here, and I can assure you that it doesn't take any attention away from the fight against child pornography, the assault on children or the other issues that the government is working on in full.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-15-lower.ana.ud1937e281	I just want to stress that my question was not about children having access to porn, it's about all the others. My question is whether the Council of State will pre-surge large parts of the network that display pornography for adults — for example. some websites. That's what this question is about. This other one is actually so that the Right has been a proponent of, for example. in the Committee on Justice to get the Minister of Justice on the road to combat child abuse. So I just want to repeat the question: will the Council of State ensure that previews are also carried out by the Internet in relation to the adult audience? That's what's my question, not how to protect children, because we all agree on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-15-lower.ana.ud1937e288	I think this debate will be terribly long if we have to explain to the representative Oktay Dahl the difference between going to Karl Johan and sitting at home and surfing the Internet. If you download pages from the Internet, it's not in the public room, it's a very private room where you sit and are on the Internet. It's not that you happen to stumble into a porno movie on the Internet, you just have to be a little more active about it in order to achieve it. But if, on the other hand, you get it in the public room, in shops, kiosks and in the street, I actually think some people in Norway will experience it steadily. Here the threshold is definitely different. The point must be that it has to be voluntary, it has to be your own choice if you want to look for that type of material. People have very different thresholds for this. Those who are liberal must also be able to respect the fact that others have a different threshold and that public space should be free of it. And so the Internet is not the public space where you stumble over things. At least you can get away from it very quickly, if you want to.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-15-lower.ana.ud1937e295	Several have not asked for the word for a line. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 261]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-15-lower.ana.ud1937e313	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group. Furthermore, the President proposes that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-15-lower.ana.ud1937e320	I see this case as a consequence of decisions that we made in connection with the budget, where we had a long, lively and pleasant, I would say, debate, and I'm just going to brief you on the content of the matter today. This applies to the reduction of the fee in respect of outlays by NOK 215 and to the removal of the additional fee by NOK 2236 in cases where expenses are taken. The majority want to screen people with debt problems against a high fee on forced recovery and debt default. Therefore, you have proposed to change the legal fee law.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-15-lower.ana.ud1937e329	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[See page 262]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-15-lower.ana.ud1937e342	The odelsting shall vote in case No. 1 to 3. Before we go to voting: the President thought it was nice that we had representatives for the performance "Alt voor Rognan" at the Gestival Gallery. The assembly was applauded.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-15-lower.ana.ud1937e397	It's going to go above the title of the law and promise at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-15-lower.ana.ud1937e407	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-15-lower.ana.ud1937e415	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Ulf Erik Knudsen on behalf of the Progress Party and Right-wing Proposal No. 2, by Bjørg Tørresdal on behalf of the Christian People's Party and Left Amendment No. 3, from Bjørg Tørresdal on behalf of the Christian People's Party
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-15-lower.ana.ud1937e546	The Progress Party, Right and Left have warned that they will vote against Section 13a.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-15-lower.ana.ud1937e559	It's going to go above the title of the law and promise at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-15-lower.ana.ud1937e569	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-15-lower.ana.ud1937e671	It's going to go above the title of the law and promise at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-15-lower.ana.ud1937e681	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-15-lower.ana.ud1937e692	There is no record available.
