ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-07.ana.ud1769e53	Representatives of Thore A. Nistad, Hans Olav Syversen and Inga Marte Thorkildsen, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. The called alternate of the Mora and Romsdal counties, Oddbjørn Vatne, has taken the seat. Two permit applications are available: from the Socialist Left Party Group on the sick leave of the representative Mr Ingvild Vaggen Malvik from 7 March onwards and until further notice from the Group of the Progressive Party on the sick leave of the representative Mr Henning Skumsvoll from 7 March until further notice These applications are proposed for immediate consideration and approval. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The first alternate for the West-Agder County, Kjell Ivar Larsen, is currently abroad and is therefore prevented from meeting at the Stortinget. The following alternates are proposed to meet during the leave period: For the West-Agder states: Ivar Hognestad. For the South-Trundellag County: Aud Herbjørg Kvalvik. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Ivar Hognestad and Aud Herbjørg Kvalvik are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-07.ana.ud1769e112	The President will propose the election of three presidents for the Storting meeting today – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Solvency Horne, Per Ove Width and Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr. – Other proposals are not available, and Solvency Horne, Per Ove Width and Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr are unanimously elected presidents of the Stortinget meeting today.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-07.ana.ud1769e131	Bird flu is a serious animal disease in wild birds and domesticated birds that have caused recent unrest and media talk. The disease first broke out in Southeast Asia, and it has, among other things, hit Thailand and Vietnam very hard. The disease has also been detected in some African countries, and the situation is currently uncertain. We have witnessed that the disease has spread ever closer, and we have been prepared for a long time that it can also reach us. The notification of infection to French domestic birds has shown that the problems are now a reality in Europe. The findings of infection of wild birds in Northern Germany, Poland and Sweden a few days ago suggest that we are likely to expect to detect the disease of wild birds in Norway. Bird flu is a global challenge. We have therefore actively participated in conferences under the UN umbrella on the joint management of this crisis by the world society. Norway, through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, has provided 50 million. aid and professional competence for those countries that need it. We are working on the desire to provide assistance where it has the most preventive effect. Last Tuesday, I had a meeting with the Commissioner for EU DG SANCO responsible for food safety and animal health, Markos Kyprianou. At this meeting, I raised issues related to cooperation in the control of avian influenza. We agreed on a common approach and on standing together in further work. Kyprianou also thanked Norwegian participation and our contribution by making national experts available in this work. Since this is a disease that spreads easily over a long distance, Norway is now taking great advantage of participating in committees in the food and animal health field in several international forums. Regulatory and contingency plans have been developed in cooperation with other European countries to meet the challenges of this highly contagious animal disease. The main challenge will be to prevent the spread of avian influenza to the commercial poultry population. Norway has a good starting point in preventing the spread of this poultry population. Knowledge of the preparedness of poultry producers is good. Compared to many other countries, we have relatively small and scattered herds. There is little contact between animals and humans and few people handling the animals in the Norwegian poultry population. We also have a well-developed veterinary system with great professional competence. The bird flu has shown great attention and has caused some fear. I would therefore like to underline the importance of distinguishing between the following: 1. avian influenza as a highly contagious disease of wild game and domesticated birds, which in rare cases has infected humans2. common seasonal winter flu in people3. a possible pandemic that could occur if the virus causing avian influenza changes character and begins to infect people; The purely public health assessments and measures I will leave to the Minister of Health to explain. Nevertheless, I must state that public health is also a general consideration when dealing with animal disease of avian influenza. The better we prevent and limit a possible global outbreak, the less likely the avian influenza virus to change character and give rise to a pandemic in people. According to the food reform, it is the Scientific Committee on Food Safety, the Veterinary Institute and the Institute for Public Health that assesses the risk of infection. The Food Safety Authority proposes and implements measures on this basis, and the three food departments, the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, the Ministry of Health and Welfare and the Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs, ensure that supervision has the necessary prerequisites for carrying out risk management. I am kept up to date and am so satisfied with the work that is being done. I have stressed that, in cooperation with the food departments concerned and with the Veterinary Institute as a premiscuous supplier, the Food Authority will be as well prepared as possible to face the demanding work to combat avian influenza. Current surveillance of birds has been significantly increased. The veterinary institute, which has increased its capacity, is now receiving approximately daily. 20 dead birds on average tested for the disease. Since February 16th, 265 birds have been received, and 226 of them have been tested. Fortunately, all the tests have been negative. However, capacity is significantly higher and up to 350 birds can be tested per. day in the case of further reinforcements. In the case of preparations, they have been gradually intensified over the winter. First, I would like to say a little bit about information and professional preparedness. A contingency plan has been prepared that was presented at a press conference on 16 February, and which I will come back to. A wide range of communication and information preparedness has been established for the public. The Food Authority has the primary responsibility for information to the public through its watch telephone and its own website. In the event of an outbreak in Norway, public information will be reinforced by a telephone number where a staff of professionals will respond. In the event of an outbreak, a separate website will also be created. Information for schools and kindergartens has been prepared in cooperation with the Ministry of Knowledge. Information material for the audience has been developed and available in several languages. Furthermore, in the case of legislation and preparation around it, a regulation has been drawn up prohibiting the import of live birds and products such as: meat from third countries that has the disease in domestic birds. The introduction of untreated feathers from all countries has been banned, and we have made demands to keep poultry indoors throughout the country as a precautionary measure to prevent infection from wild birds to domestic birds. In relation to the preparation of other actions, we have established a professional network in which a number of public authorities on the public and animal health side, business organisations and relevant stakeholder organisations are represented. Furthermore, a number of practical and technical preparations have been made and are subject to ongoing review. Preparedness cooperation has been established with the police and the civil defence. Several relevant preparedness exercises in the field of animal health have been carried out. If I am going to go into the emergency plan that was presented just three weeks ago, if there is a possible finding of avian influenza of type H5N1 in wild birds in Norway, we will – as they have done in Sweden – implement the measures set out in the emergency plans. This means, among other things: the food surveillance will provide for the establishment of zones where highly contagious avian influenza has been found and where it has been detected or suspected that the virus is of type H5N1. Around the site, a risk zone with a radius of 3 km and an observation zone with a radius of at least 10 km including the risk zone will be established. The measures in the risk zone will be more stringent than those in the external observation zone. In the zones, a number of restrictions will be imposed, including: bans on the movement of all poultry and products, increased surveillance, increased protection against infection in poultry establishments, bans on exhibitions, etc. and prohibition of hunting. Regulations on the measures to be taken in the event of infection into wild birds, including the establishment of zones, have been drawn up. We have also prepared for any vaccination of poultry. Here, however, there is reason to say that there are many disadvantages associated with vaccination, but we will be prepared if this should be the case in Norway. There is considerable disagreement at international level as to whether vaccination is the right way to go. So what do we know about pathways and risks? Today, the risk of detection of H5N1 in wild birds in Norway is high. The risk of infection to the commercial poultry population is significantly lower, much in view of the structure of Norwegian poultry holdings. Hobbies and small-scale poultry teams are being monitored in order to reduce the possible risk of infection. In terms of pathways, there are several possibilities, and we are therefore addressing the problems from several angles. Firstly, to infect migratory birds, especially swimmers and wading birds. The increasing prevalence of highly pathogenic H5N1 avian influenza in wild birds in Europe has led to a high likelihood of disease outbreaks in Norway. The coast of South Norway will be the reception area for the largest quantities of migratory birds. Recent developments in the Baltic Sea area also update the introduction of infection into the northern parts of the country. Some birds that have winter stays in or trekking along the Baltic Sea are hedged in North Norway. Among the most relevant species in this way are top ducks, salmon sands, sperm ducks and sprats. In the spring range for duck birds, areas where rest areas are available and where there is a high level of poultry farming are designated as special risk areas. This applies to areas in Rogaland, in the East and in Trøndelag. Secondly, we have the dangers of infection via illegally imported animals and products. There is good cooperation between the Food Authority and the Customs and Charges Directorate, which plays an important role in the prevention of avian influenza. At the request of the Food Safety Authority, the control of the smuggling of live birds and bird products to Norway has intensified. I have paid particular attention to the fact that this is being done because the risk of avian influenza in Norway is particularly high when illegal imports of infected poultry and other birds and untreated products of birds. Although we have detailed contingency plans and regulatory proposals ready, the Food Safety Authority will not lock the scheme in the least detail. What we will actually do will depend on the locality, the wild bird population and the poultry herds and a number of other conditions relevant to the risk of infection in the area concerned. We must be prepared to ensure that the implementation of the measures could lead to civil society disadvantages. Food surveillance is now in close contact with the Swedish animal health authorities and takes advantage of the experience gained by Sweden in this situation. So little about compensation schemes and economic conditions. In the 2006 budget, it was decided by the Government and the Stortinget to strengthen it by 5 million. to enable the Food Safety Authority to meet the demanding situation of avian influenza. The case has already required a lot of resources. However, the detection of avian influenza in wild birds in Norway will lead to a clear increase in the burden on the budget of the Food Authority. This is linked to the establishment and enforcement of measures to identify the infectiveness situation and to prevent further spread of infection. The level of measures and associated costs could increase significantly further if the infection were to enter commercial poultry flocks. It is not possible to predict whether, and in the case of when, additional extraordinary costs will be incurred by the Food Authority and the extent to which they can be incurred. As far as possible, the government will come back with details and proposals related to the matter in the revised national budget. With regard to the impact on the farmers concerned, we have compensation schemes that will be able to remedy the situation. These arrangements are already in current legislation under public directives on the killing of serious transmissible diseases. In addition, the Ministry of Agriculture has been instructed to explain how the industry will be affected in any case of avian influenza in Norway and how possible restrictions will be imposed on the undertakings concerned which are not caught by the current compensation scheme or other insurance schemes. Agricultural organisations have also asked for a meeting to discuss these issues. The government is taking care of these issues with the utmost seriousness and is prepared through a detailed emergency management plan. The Board of Governors’ Crisis Board is being continuously briefed and there is daily contact between stakeholders. It is important that the crisis be managed according to the level it has at all times. Good planning and good preparation provide the best basis for the improvisations we experience in all crises. All in all, I draw the conclusion that Norway is well prepared for a possible outbreak of avian influenza. We have planned for a long time, have competent professionals at all levels and have good cooperation between public health authorities and animal health authorities. But bird flu is a very serious animal disease. It's a fact. I am sure that the Storting share my concern in this area, and that we shall jointly do what we can to meet this threat as well prepared as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-07.ana.ud1769e194	As with public health: extensive international cooperation is underway to deal with the current avian influenza situation, which fortunately has not yet arrived, and a possible future pandemic situation. Norway is very active in this cooperation. Our experts expect the advice we give, and the measures we put in place will be sufficient to ensure that no human being is infected by avian influenza if it comes here. The current avian influenza situation must not be mixed with a situation where we have so-called pandemic influenza. A pandemic influenza is a global epidemic caused by a new human infectious influenza virus. It has been discussed for a long time whether a modified avian influenza virus could cause a possible pandemic. According to our experts today, there is nothing to suggest that the avian influenza virus is changing to increase the ability to infect between birds and humans or between humans. It is very unlikely that such a change in the virus will occur in Norway. When the next pandemic comes, and what might be the contaminant, is still uncertain. But we're also prepared to handle any pandemic. Infection of avian influenza viruses from animals to humans occurs very rarely. Disease has only been observed among people who have had very close contact with domestic birds. Most of the cases have occurred in countries where birds and humans live closely in each other, and where the health situation, nutrition and hygiene are different from ours. While more than 150 million birds have died or been killed as a result of avian influenza, under 100 people in the world have died of avian influenza infection in the last three years — mainly in Asia, as the Minister of Agriculture explained. As far as we know, none of these people are infected by wild birds or other animals that may be carriers of avian influenza viruses, for example. pig, dog or cat. This shows that the avian influenza virus currently has little ability to cause disease in humans. But it's important not to minimize the situation. There is a great need for good and factual information for the whole population, both to spread knowledge and to create security. As you know, the professional bodies – the Food Authority, the Veterinary Institute, the Institute for Public Health and the Directorate for Social and Health – have provided a number of advice to people. These are advice that is also available on the Internet. All agencies are very active in disseminating information, both through the media and through direct contact with the public and professionals. It is, as the Minister of Agriculture also said, a comprehensive information work aimed at the community health service, the permanent staff, the school system and the kindergartens. There is also reason to take reasonable steps to ensure that people are not affected by the avian influenza virus, if or when it comes to the country. In today’s situation, this will be simple, preventive measures that people themselves need to implement in their daily lives. I would like to briefly mention the main advice: Infection by avian influenza virus through food or drinking water is very unlikely and is not a known cause in countries with high levels of infection and poorer hygiene than in Norway. But common hygiene rules, such as washing hands, avoiding unclean drinking water and clean food management, will prevent infectious agents from surviving and infecting humans. Those who feed wanted birds should wash their hands afterwards – even when they have set the birdboard. We also stress that you should not touch dead birds. We know that wild birds are carriers of many pathogens, for example. Salmonella, which means that we should in any case be careful not to touch the birds and avoid contact with the faeces from them. In the case of several dead birds within a defined area, contact the local food surveillance authority. The transmission of viruses from pet animals to humans is very unlikely, although we have seen that cats can become infected with avian influenza viruses and develop disease. Here, too, the general advice is to show good hygiene in the handling of dogs and cats. In European countries where avian influenza has been detected, people living in the observation zone, i.e. 10 km around the site where the avian influenza virus was detected, are advised to keep the cats away from the dead or sick birds. This advice is given to be on the safe side. For the time being, there is no basis for special measures in contact with dogs. As you know, it's also given advice to people who're going out to travel. We have recommended that people avoid visiting poultry herds or bird markets. Normal advice on good hygiene when travelling to warmer countries has, of course, become no less important to follow now. Until now, I have presented advice and measures on the public health side based on the fact that we are dealing today with the animal disease avian influenza, as the Minister of Agriculture has pointed out. Let me also say a few words about the general preparedness we have for a possible pandemic influenza – a virus that has not yet occurred, but where we already have plans and measures in place. On 16 February of this year, the Ministry of Health and Welfare presented the third version of the National Emergency Plan for Pandemic Influenza. Since 2001, we have had such a plan in Norway. Both the EU and the World Health Organisation have recommended that their Member States update their contingency plans and cooperate more closely with the animal and public health authorities. We have done so in Norway. A draft plan was used during the EU exercise Common Ground in November 2005, on which Norway was involved, and its experience is, of course, incorporated into the revised plan. Today, the world, and Norway, is at the lowest level in what we call the pandemic period of vigilance. However, in the planning of preparedness for a virus that has not yet emerged, we have done several preparatory actions: It has been purchased and stored 1.4 million doses of the drug Tamiflu, which can be distributed to the entire population in the first phase of a pandemic in Norway. This emergency storage facility is intended to cover the need for treatment of all those in Norway who may become ill with pandemic influenza, as well as the prevention of key personnel. In addition, another drug intended for prevention is acquired for about 300,000 people for six weeks. This has been done because a new vaccine for humans will not be available before approx. four to six months after the outbreak of a pandemic influenza. We cannot make the vaccine until the virus may have changed and become something else.An agreement has also been reached with a Dutch company on the delivery of a pandemic vaccine to the entire population as soon as such vaccine becomes available.The annual vaccination against the seasonal flu is intensified. The fact that we have a mass vaccination system will in itself help to ensure that vaccination against any pandemic influenza is as simple as possible. The Nordic Council of Ministers has decided to explore the possibility of joint production of influenza vaccines. This is an investigation work going on right now. The government, as explained by the Minister of Agriculture, follows the situation from day to day. I personally talk to many people who naturally are very concerned about these questions, and we see that there is a great – almost unlimited – need for information. I am concerned that people will have access to up-to-date information at all times, both on the current situation and on any future influenza pandemic. All professional bodies update their Internet pages on an ongoing basis. We hold press conferences with the health and animal health authorities, and our employees are constantly very active in the media. The pandemic plan has been sent to all the municipalities, municipal doctors and permanent residents of the country, because the operational response is local. Finally, I would like to commend all those who are active at all levels, so that we are well prepared both in the current situation in the case of a possible avian influenza, and if a new or changed virus should occur that could lead to an influenza pandemic.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-07.ana.ud1769e241	The President will now propose that, by reference to Section 34a of the Rules of Procedure, a brief comment round be opened, limited to one post of up to 5 minutes from each party group and, where appropriate, a final statement from each of the Councils. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-07.ana.ud1769e246	I would like to first of all thank you for the statement we have received here today. It is important to put such matters in the Daymap. The Labour Party takes note of the measures taken by the Government so far. The Labour Party believes that the Government has a good overview of the situation and has a good cooperation with other countries. The Labour Party believes that balanced information is necessary in order not to create undue fear, and asks everyone who provides information, insistently to balance it. But at the same time, we have to take this virus seriously, and that's why I'm happy that our professional community has a lot of food skills. We all have to help each of us – if there is an outbreak of infection – to make it as much possible as possible. I trust that the Food Authority and the Health Authority will take responsibility for us as consumers and residents. And I see my confidence that the Government is providing information, and that other informers are making sure that we get the necessary information if necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-07.ana.ud1769e255	Initially, I will be allowed to thank both the Minister of Agriculture and Food and the Minister of Health and Care for the good and sober presentations relating to the issues we have. I think the first thing we should take inwards is that the debate that goes out in society is probably a little bit influenced by a mix of that we're dealing with a bird disease today, versus what could happen if this virus mutates and it goes over to being able to infect from human to human. I think it's important that we try to keep this separate, and that's what I think both councils managed to do in a good way. But we have to take inward that there is created a fear out there in society, precisely because you've got this mix. I also think we're going to take inward this if the virus mutates, after the horror scenarios we've seen presented in the media. It began on 25 October last year. They talked about up to 30,000 deaths in Norway. Then in January we got a new scenario where the worst case was 13,000 dead. When we create that kind of scenario, it's also important that we get the message of how well prepared we are, how we're going to meet this if it mutates, and that this is a thoughtful scenario. Per. Today we have to deal with a bird disease in this area. Then it's important that we know which channels we use to inform. I think, unfortunately, that it is not enough that we inform through the channels mentioned here, among other things. through a separate Internet page and that it should be an information telephone. I think it's important that we also use the tools that the larger regional newspapers and larger locals are, in order to get our messages in the best possible way, just so that we can reduce the fears that are out there in society. I hope the government will make sure you can also use these channels, because it's not enough just to use the Internet in this situation. Let's take the following scenario: What some people call and ask about now – now some cases related to cats have been seen – is whether this can infect, for example. by livestock? And what about infection through water, by the fact that there's a lot of avian faeces in the water? It's important that we get information out in a good way. I also think it is important that the Minister of Agriculture and Food should go in again and look at the routines that, among other things. The Food Authority has. Now is the time to go through our routines. Once we've got the bird flu within the border, which I think we're going to get, it's too late to start looking at our routines, it should be done in advance. I hope I can do that. As I said, I hope you can get a campaign related to increasing knowledge in this area, and that we now have to deal with a bird's disease and not a pandemic. But if we get the pandemic, and if you get into a situation where this can infect from human to human, we also have to make sure that we are as prepared as possible. A lot is done, but I also think a lot is done, and it's related to information. There are significant gaps, because what comes out are horror scenarios and not how prepared we are. Furthermore, it is mentioned that the Nordic Council of Ministers is trying to establish cooperation or, where appropriate, an investigation related to a common Nordic vaccine production. I think Norway should take a little better care of the steering wheel and consider whether we should use some of the knowledge and economy we have in Norway to run ourselves a project related to the development of a vaccine. It has to do with the use of research funds, and that we can also gain knowledge about general vaccine development, not just related to this bit. It may take three to six months for this virus to mutate and until a vaccine can be put in place. Then it could be good that we could have had a little bit more firmer on the steering wheel, and used a little bit of our wisdom and wealth. I hope you continue the work that is already being done on these things, both in terms of the avian influenza, which is an animal disease, and the worst scenario if this mutates, but that we keep this very clear apart, and that we also look at the possibility of other ways of informing the Norwegian population. It's not everyone we meet just as well through an information phone or a website on the Internet. Other instruments should also be used, and I hope that the Councils will take them along and do something with them.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-07.ana.ud1769e274	I would like to thank both the Councils for the good, the good and the comprehensive information on this difficult problem. It's important and useful that the Storting knows this, and, as the previous speaker said, it's also important that this reaches out in different ways to most people. Today, this is primarily an animal disease. We also know that there are quite considerable financial interests inside this image. Too many people, both in Norway and abroad, can be very economical. That's why there's reason to stress from the Right that food security and public health must have it completely outperforming the focus of that situation, if and when this is going to develop to come here to the country, and that we might get a new virus coming up. There must be no doubt that this is of absolute interest. Although fulgle influenza is an animal disease today, it is important to note that the World Health Organization announces that it is likely that the virus can mutate. This can lead to a pandemic influenza that affects many people. On the basis of this, it is crucial to have good contingency plans that enabled us to meet such a pandemic. The right is therefore satisfied with the fact that the Government is looking to update, as the Council of State stated, the National Emergency Plan for Pandemic Influenza, which was held for the first time in 2001. The Minister of Health and Health said in his orientation that the chances of a pandemic are small. I hope and believe that I'm quite correct, but it's clear that the consequences, if anything like that happens, will be very big. A central element of the contingency plan against pandemic is adequate medical treatment. As early as 2004, the previous government set out proposals to grant the right to purchase a spare stock of antiviral medicines, i.e. anti-virus medicinal products. In addition, funds were granted for an option agreement for the purchase of vaccines. On a proposal from the Minister of Health and Health Ansgar Gabrielsen, the Seventh Cooperation Agency, in the autumn of 2004, to cover the purchase of vaccines for the whole population. In 2005, it was decided to extend the preparedness stock of medicinal products for viral infections in line with the recommendation of the Social and Health Directorate. Right-wing argues that the Government is currently considering the need for additional purchases in line with professional recommendations. If it were to go so crazy that the avian influenza turns into a pandemic influenza that infects humans, it would also be decisive to ensure good information about how the population is going to move forward. The media coverage of the day shows that the authorities are primarily responsible for ensuring correct and balanced information. It is therefore important that contingency plans also include a plan for information work in such a situation. A pandemic could affect many sectors of society, e.g.: transportation, food supply and renovation. Rightly argued that the Government’s preparedness work includes plans for coordination between the different sectors, and within the sectors I mentioned, and other sectors. Finally, a challenge for the Minister of Health and Health: If this is going to develop into an extensive pandemic, we know that the authorities are making sure to buy vaccines and antivirals for those who are waiting to get sick. However, in the event of a change in intentions, it may be necessary to give priority to whom treatment should first be provided. In accordance with the contingency plan for pandemic influenza, the Ministry of Health and Welfare is responsible for setting such a priority. What importance would the Council of State give such a priority if this were to happen?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-07.ana.ud1769e289	The outbreak of avian influenza in our neighbouring countries in the Baltic region only makes it a matter of time before we also have such outbreaks in Norway. When I asked to get a statement to the Storting from responsible state councils, it was just to assure me that the government had the highest readiness to prevent major consequences for people and animals. I would also like to thank you for two very good statements by the Council of State. To date, 93 people worldwide, from 2003 to today, have died of avian influenza — all after close contact with infected birds. The population of all the countries where avian influenza has affected humans has a way of life that involves closer contact between birds and humans than we have tradition of in Norway. We can't in any way talk about a pandemic per. today. There is therefore no reason to overdramatize the situation for us humans. Only if the virus evolves and transmits from human to human, can we have a situation that can be said to be dramatic. The Minister of Health and Welfare has today explained that the Ministry also has a general preparedness for such a situation, and it is reassuring. Avian influenza is primarily, as has been said here today, an animal disease. Therefore, there is reason to believe that the main consequences in Norway will be linked to the fight against this and the possible impact on food business operators with animal husbandry in affected areas. Norwegian poultry farming will face nutritional consequences related to the prevention of wild bird infection, but also the potential for lack of disposal of chicken products must be expected. Although the chicken products are not directly infected, probably many consumers will protect themselves, or believe they protect themselves, by not eating eggs and chicken. In such a situation, it is important not to create panic and misrepresentation, and good information and credible measures must be at the bottom to create confidence between producers and consumers. I have registered that the Food Safety Authority has developed a plan for the prevention and control of avian influenza. It is positive and reassuring. We have heard today that this is a comprehensive plan. This imposes strict restrictions on traders if they are in an infected area and could result in a loss of entrepreneurial income. The Christian People's Party has noted the proposal of the Norwegian League for the compensation of voluntary slaughter of poultry. We expect the Government to take a closer look at this proposal, as this has to be said to be a disease and consumer reactions the business operators actually have little control over. Other industries may also be affected, for example: travel life. We therefore believe it is important for the Government to focus on the economic challenges facing the bird flu. Of course, public health is an important focus, perhaps the most important one, but the analysis and prevention of the negative economic effects in different industries must not be forgotten either. The Minister of Agriculture and Food also touched on this in his statement, and mentioned, as I understood it, that this can be assessed in relation to the RNB if necessary. The ministers responsible have today explained a situation of avian influenza. I believe that some of the most important authorities should now give priority, and as I also hear done, is to create security for the population so that there is a good preparedness. The authorities must be able to communicate that we have an overall approach to a very likely outbreak of avian influenza in Norway, and by that I mean a best possible cross-ministerial preparedness for both poultry and humans, and possibly between people — both in the short term and in the long term. Finally, I thank you for two good statements from the Councils.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-07.ana.ud1769e312	I would also like to thank the Councils for their thorough presentation. As mentioned from several sources, avian influenza is a very serious animal disease, and fortunately it is. Despite that, I am glad that it is so strongly emphasised that people’s health is also a general consideration when dealing with animal disease. It points out both state councils, and it is important when so many people feel fear and uncertainty. The security aspect is important for further work here. The global aspect of avian influenza is important. It is important that legislation and contingency plans are developed in cooperation with other European countries in order to meet the challenges posed by this disease. In the light of the presentations that have been made here, I feel confident that this will be done. The Minister of Agriculture also explains the responsibilities. Here I would like to express great confidence in the Food Authority as an executive body, which must manage the risks that are present at all times. It is important to provide both resources and a good framework for work in this situation, and not least work in a difficult situation to give priority to food safety and public health issues. In the context of preparedness, it is also important to stress, as the Council of State does, the need for thorough information to people most. We think it seems to be well planned and taken care of so far. As regards contingency plans, it is underlined that zones will be established when the avian influenza is detected. This is not about, but when the bird flu is found in Norway. This could have a major impact primarily on those directly affected, but also on other actors and agricultural uses in neighbourhoods where there is no evidence of avian influenza will be subject to restrictions. I am glad that today it is so strongly emphasised that there is a problem that a person wants to be evaluated in more detail. It must not be possible for legislation not to open up compensation schemes for use which are not directly affected but which nevertheless have restrictions and high costs resulting therefrom. The Minister of Agriculture stressed the high risk of avian influenza being detected in wild birds in Norway. However, he also points out that the risk of infection to the commercial poultry population is significantly lower, much in view of the structure of Norwegian poultry holdings. There may be reason to remind some in the political environment that the fact that Norwegian agricultural structure, the varied use structure, is a significant strength in ensuring public health and food safety and not least in combating animal diseases. It must be a crossroads of thought for those who constantly want structural change and economies of scale in Norwegian agriculture. It must be clear to everyone that the very design of Norwegian agricultural policy, i.e. the structure of use and restrictions on trade in food and animals from abroad, is important for food security and is important for public health. In this situation, it is important for us in the Central Party to stress that in Norway we still have the option of choosing a responsible and safe path in agricultural policy to ensure good public health and food security. Then we still need to ensure a varied usage structure. We must ensure it through a scattered settlement, and we must not least have strict restrictions on imports of food and live animals across the border.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-07.ana.ud1769e329	I would first like to thank both government councils for a sober and good information on this topic. It's very important that people don't get scared. But it's a fact that there's a possible threat that the bird flu can be the cause of a pandemic among people. There is such a situation that good preparedness should be tackled. One element of such preparedness is the isolate capacity in Norwegian hospitals. I would therefore like to end by asking the Minister of Health and Care whether this is consistent, or whether there is an overview of the isolation capacity of Norwegian hospitals in relation to this threat of a possible pandemic associated with avian influenza.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-07.ana.ud1769e336	In a situation where many are concerned about what is going to happen, I want to praise the Grandfather for the responsibility that is now being taken here, by contributing jointly to a sober approach to this issue. It has been said very wisely here, and I feel that we have a common entrance in relation to the fact that there is a serious situation. It is a serious matter that we take seriously, and we are prepared to do what is necessary to minimise the consequences of this animal disease coming to Norway. Many representatives have said that communication, information, is an essential part of how this situation is going to turn out. That's right. That means that by taking the entrance that is being taken here today, we are helping to provide a sober information that helps not to create undue fear among people. I think that we have a good starting point now in terms of communicating with the population in a difficult situation, because that's it, it's just to be honest with. I'm going to go into the individual articles a little bit. I realized that what the representative Nesvik said was going to have a good enough information. I agree that it's important, and, as I just said, I think we have a common problem in dealing with it. It is a challenge compared to the fact that there are many strong images being disseminated. It's easy for people to see the situation as frightening as a result of this. But that is a challenge, I fully agree with the representative of Nesvik. The representative, Løvik, was concerned with nuance. I perceive that the statement given here today was also considered to be sober, and I believe that this is important in relation to being able to communicate the questions here. I agree that the overall is food security and public health, as the representative Løvik said. That's what's at the front, that's what this case is primarily about. Other considerations shall be aligned accordingly. That is why I fully support the entrance that the representative of Løvik had to that question. Then the representative Davøy was involved in the fact that some of the situations we have seen related to animal to human infection are in countries that have a completely different animal husbandry from what we have in Norway. Once again, I fully agree. It's obvious that the difference between animal husbandry in some Asian countries, where people and animals live almost together, and where animal husbandry takes place in the backyard of people, to a situation in Norway where we have a controlled animal husbandry in the way we all know here, is great. This means that there are some barriers in Norway that are much more extensive in relation to the infection situation than there are in Norway, for example. in some Asian countries. So it's a good analysis that the representative Davøy does here, and that I fully agree with. I also agree that the main challenge now lies in ensuring that the commercial poultry population can cope with a situation where the infection is in Norway. I hope and believe that what I also explained in my post gave the impression. Then the representative Davøy also raised the question of compensation for voluntary slaughter, and, as I was also in my post, it is a question that is now being worked on, and that we are taking seriously. When it comes to a cross-ministerial approach, I think the Minister of Health can complement me on that question afterwards. The fact that we're here together shows that, of course, there's a common entry point on this issue from the Government, but also the perception that the possibility of success in this matter is based on cross-ministerial work. So here too I agree. The representative Breck was concerned with restrictions on the producers concerned. I commented on this a little now to the representative Davøy. The representative Ludvigsen was about the sober and good information, which of course is also important, and which I have affected a little in relation to other articles. I want to thank you for an interesting and good round. I will promise to continue working actively in relation to a serious situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-07.ana.ud1769e356	I want to join the Minister of Agriculture and Food's praise of the Stortinget. I think there have been a lot of constructive posts and a lot of good recordings for the job we're doing. I can confirm from my point of view that there are many people who are anxious, as others have also said here. I think it's partly about this and partly about that there has been a lot of focus on other aspects of hygiene. Whether it's bread, meat dough or whatever it is, there's now a lot of uncertainty around. That's why, like several representatives, we're going to be working on informing as best we can all the time. Our professional authorities do it very actively, also locally and regionally. It is very important to balance the matter up against not minimizing the situation. I'll try to answer some of the specific questions. The first question came from Harald Tom Nesvik and was about the initiative of the influenza vaccine and the Nordic Council of Ministers. Of course, if Norwegian producers are interested, we have nothing against testing it with us. But so far it has been the Nordic initiative that has come the farthest. In addition, we have the agreement I have described with a Dutch company. But we are open to all constructive input in that area as well. The representative Løvik asked what happens if and if, and what we have. First of all, there is no doubt that there is a vaccine that is the best protection if an influenza epidemic should occur, and it cannot, as I said earlier, be produced until this virus has emerged, changed character and possibly become human infectious. Then, as I said before, we made an agreement with a Dutch company to produce 4 million doses of vaccine of such a vaccine. We bought 1.4 million packages of Tamiflu. 1,2 million of them are intended for the population as protection in the first phase of a possible pandemic, and 200000 packages have been calculated as a two-month prevention treatment for the health care professional who will care for those who may become ill. And that's right now when you order 12 million daily doses of another drug that is also of a preventive nature, for 300,000 people in selected key positions. When it comes to the specific question of what happens if it turns out that we don't have enough, I would say that we follow the recommendations that the World Health Organisation gives us. They assume – and that's what we've been following – that it's this number of people who are going to get sick, if there's a flu pandemic that's infected between people. Of course, if the World Health Organisation will come to a different conclusion at some point, the Norwegian authorities will deal with this. That's the one. The second is that we are constantly following the advice of our professional expert here in Norway. We've got our own pandemic committee that's still on the go -- it's meeting today, and it's on the go. Of course, we will follow the advice from there. There is a lot of uncertainty about what happens if the virus mutates and changes, and about what type of virus it becomes, who it is that gets sick, who needs treatment, etc. What I can say is that we are among the countries of the world that are most rusty in terms of health care, medicines, vaccines, nutrition, hygiene, etc. And as you heard in the presentations, both from the Minister of Agriculture and from me, we follow this from day to day, both what is now the situation in relation to animal health, and what may have to be on the public health side in the future. The representative Ludvigsen was wondering if we have enough preparedness for isolates. Yes, as we know per. Today, we do. But again, we follow this from day to day, and we don't know what might have to come. But I don't think we should in any way exaggerate that fear. We are well rusted in all sorts of ways, both where we are now, and where we might be coming in time, so I don't think it's the Norwegian people who have the most fear. But we need to inform ourselves about the situation in all possible ways as well as we can – and we do that more places than on the Internet, as the representative Nesvik was concerned about. We inform the whole time, every day, and we're going to keep doing that.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-07.ana.ud1769e373	The President will propose that the statements by the Minister for Agriculture and Food and the Minister for Health and Health on measures in relation to avian influenza be annexed to the minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-07.ana.ud1769e387	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 65 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 15 minutes, Progress Party 15 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes and Left 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines within the allocated speaking time of up to five lines with replies from members of the Government and three lines with replies from the main speakers of each group. In this connection, the President will draw the attention of the President of the United Kingdom of Great Britain to the writing of yesterday's President Thorbjørn Jagland on the new use of interlocutors in line changes. When a speaker has finished his main post on the ordinary speaker’s chair and a change of lines begins, the speaker goes down to the pulpit in front of the president’s seat and stands there while he responds to all the lines. The Replicants use the second pulpit and ask their questions to the main speakers from that pulpit. This is a change that is made from the debate that is now beginning. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-07.ana.ud1769e400	In Stortinget's treatment of St.meld. No 30 for 2003-2004, Culture for learning, Stortinget made it clear that it expected the introduction of a mandatory second foreign language. There was an overwhelming majority in the United Kingdom who thought that this was an important premise for the introduction of the Knowledge Promise. In line with this, the new initial training curricula are designed to benefit from each other’s language skills. After last autumn's elections, the Stoltenberg government announced that it would not, however, introduce mandatory foreign languages, despite the Storting Opinion in annotated form at the Innst. S. No 268 for 2003-2004. In a sense, the new teacher plans were out of date before they were implemented. The Storting got the proposal that makes us here today, from Erna Solberg, Ine Marie Eriksen and Gunnar Gundersen. As the position shows, the majority do not want to introduce the second language as a compulsory subject, but rather want to introduce a new system in which students can choose between 2nd foreign language or deepening in Norwegian, English or Sami. Characters shall be given and shall be counted on admission to further studies. The Committee has held consultations on the matter and several interesting arguments have been put forward for and against the proposal in the hearing. However, there is a clear distinction between the professional consultation opinions on the one hand and the opinions of the organisations concerned on the other. Norwegian Student Organisation protests against several compulsory subjects as a principle, and the National Association of Schools believes that the proposal will lead to more losers in the Norwegian school. However, neither the Norwegian Student Organisation nor the National Association of Schools have any professional or documentary data to support these opinions. The Education Association, which is the organisation representing most teachers, has taken a significantly more active approach to the issue and strongly recommends the introduction of the second foreign language as mandatory. Usually both the Workers' Party and SV listen to the trade unions, but not in this case. One of the arguments of the Norwegian Student Organisation, the National Association of Schools and the Government Parties is that one will create more school losers if the second foreign language is made mandatory. Then one would believe that there was some sort of empirical data to support this majority view, but according to the researchers, there is no. The researchers claim that there is no research to support the claim that 2nd foreign languages would be too demanding for intellectually weak students. On the contrary, the researchers at the open hearing were quite clear that it would also be an advantage for the theoretically weak students on the second foreign language were made mandatory. Research director at Telemarksforschung at Notodden, Heike Spitz, says that mandatory second foreign language will increase students’ competence in the first foreign language, which is English. She goes on to say that intellectually weak students, like all other students, will benefit from compulsory foreign language. Her conclusion is clear: there are no professional arguments for not making the second language compulsory for all primary school students. Johanne Ostad of the Foreign Language Centre refers to research that concludes that theoreticalally weak students are generally good at learning languages. Research on people with mental retardation shows, among other things: easy acquisition of language skills, despite major learning difficulties in other subjects. Ostad also points out that linguistics strengthens students in their general schoolwork, and refers to a study in Canada where students who have second foreign languages are also stronger in mathematics. It has been difficult to motivate schools to invest in the second foreign language as long as it is not mandatory. As a result, there is almost no provision for continuing training for language teachers in addition to English. Rita Gjørven of the Institute for Teacher Education and School Development at the University of Oslo can tell you that there really did get momentum in the school's continuing education and quality focus in the second foreign language after the Stortinget said the subject would become mandatory. After the government change and the government's clarification that 2nd foreign languages remain optional, enthusiasm has disappeared, and there is a situation where 2nd foreign languages are not given priority. In other words, the optional regime that the Government is now adding will help to prevent an extra bet in the second foreign language, despite the government saying it wants the opposite. The trade unions are disappointed that a completely necessary focus on the second foreign language is lacking with the government's model. When Culture for Learning was dealt with in the Stortinget, as mentioned earlier, it was a clear majority who wanted a mandatory second foreign language. The Labour Party claims to be accustomed to dealing with research data and professional arguments in the formulation of its policy. In this case, the Workers' Party may choose to listen to an almost collective professional environment, or they may not. They now choose, after the choice, to leave it alone. This was perhaps one of the issues that the Workers' Party did not find worthy of a small sea battle during the negotiations at Soria Moria, despite the advice of an overall trade union environment. Why do they choose to turn off the hearing aids in this particular case? It would have been different if the trade unions were divided, so that both positions could be legitimized from a professional point of view. But they're not. In return, the opposition is involved in this issue. The opposition has chosen to listen to the technical advice we have been presented, and they are the basis of the policy design. I guess you shouldn't completely ignore that one about approx. Four years can stand here and have a little rematch on this issue. We live in a beautiful, but little country. We have a special language, and if Norway is to assert itself in the international knowledge and competence competition, it is necessary that we communicate well with people from other countries. Then it doesn't make much sense to sit down and wait for people to learn Norwegian. We are the ones who need to adapt to our own ability to communicate with large parts of the world, something the government is very concerned about in almost every other context, except when discussing language skills in Norwegian school. At the same time, we see a larger flow of service producers from abroad to Norway. This means that language skills can in fact become crucial in order to be able to deal with a number of regular service producers in Norway in the future. When there is a mandatory second foreign language debate, we are still hearing from the government fraction that they will ensure students' freedom of choice. It's with respect to report a slightly special argument from the government fraction. Not only are the government parties known for in any other context to want to reduce freedom of choice to most people, including school students. But if freedom of choice is important, how does it relate to the temporary law of free school that Stortinget has received, which deprives students of the opportunity to choose between non-publicly owned schools? And we will never have such a small test of the importance of freedom of choice for the government parties when the proposals of the Advance Party on free choice of schools are addressed. Then we'll see how deep it is. The party of progress is the party which is above all concerned with freedom of choice. However, it is essential that we have an education system that can compete internationally in content and results. When the available research in this area shows that it will be beneficial for all students to introduce a mandatory second foreign language, yes, we believe it is necessary to modernise the traditional perception of which subjects should be the basic subject for Norwegian students. We have a school that's bad at international level. We have the opportunity to do something about it. But in our opinion, the government is not forward-looking on this issue at all. They choose, in our opinion, to meet the challenges of the future with yesterday's solutions. It's search. It is sad for the students to know the consequences of this policy, and Norway is in the long term looking for it. On behalf of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left, I allow myself to include the minority proposal in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-07.ana.ud1769e439	The representative Anders Anundsen has taken up the proposal he referred to. The President is in doubt as to whether the 'disarmament of hearing aids' is a parliamentary expression, but let the doubt benefit the representative. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-07.ana.ud1769e446	I'm still wondering about the "people most" rhetoric of the Advance Party. In this case and in a number of other fields, the Progress Party appears to be a classic right party, which is definitely not for the most people. I have a few questions that I want to ask the representative Anundsen. Is the methodology of the Progress Party for motivating students who are already perhaps struggling with basic skills in Norwegian and English, to force them to take a second foreign language in addition? And the next question: why does the Progress Party say that they are concerned about the theory of vocational education in high school when the Progress Party will simultaneously force the same student group into a second foreign language in primary school just before they go to high school? Here's something that's not right.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-07.ana.ud1769e453	I'm not so sure it's not right. So it's like a course is not more or less theoretical because it's a subject. A subject can be made more practical than theoretical, depending on how you apply the pedagogical method. The research at this point is quite clear: it is not a problem to create a mandatory second foreign language that is practically targeted at students. It's a little strange to stand here and hear the representative from the Workers' Party say that there should be some kind of methodology to motivate weak students and force them to learn more theory. The research is clear. If the representative had attended the hearing and followed up on what the researchers said, he would have heard that they said that all students – and perhaps especially those students who are intellectually weak – would benefit from a mandatory second foreign language. I think it's strange that the representative seems to be giving students in Norwegian school a lower starting point when they're going into international competition.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-07.ana.ud1769e458	In its contribution, the representative of the Progress Party states that all students will benefit from the second foreign language. In the note, on the other hand, it is underlined that there are some students who should be exempted, and I quote: ‘This applies to pupils with learning difficulties who want little or no benefit from the teaching.’ I think this is sad to hear. It stigmatizes a group that has had enough difficulty already. By applying for freedom of choice, this could have been avoided, but instead the Progress Party wants a red tape. Here, educational-psychological services must be included when applying for exemptions. I'm asking, why is the Progress Party doing this? Why does the Progress Party believe that bureaucrats are better than students and parents to make this decision?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-07.ana.ud1769e468	What I said in the post was a reference to the research. The researchers believe that all students can benefit from this. I totally disagree with the replicator about the question in relation to stigmatizing weak students, rather on the contrary. If stigmatisation becomes mandatory, it is stigmatisation today. 70 pst. by students, 2nd foreign language is chosen today as a starting point. The 30 pst. which does not, then, become a loser because they do not get the knowledge that researchers think is absolutely necessary in order to compete internationally. That's why I want to turn the problem over to the replicator at all in my head, and say that it's a compulsory subject that won't create losers, but helps to raise the professional level of those students who are basically intellectually weak. By doing so voluntarily, these students will continue to opt it out, and they will therefore not be able to compete internationally. Maybe they will also have problems nationally.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-07.ana.ud1769e475	This was an article with lots of loaded concepts. I don't think I've heard from this pulpit so often the term 'weak students'. I wish we could talk about the students in some way other than what the Progress Party is doing here. We have students who have different abilities, different assumptions, different strengths, and then I think it's awfully unfortunate that we hear from this pulpit over and over again about this amount of 'weak students'. Besides, I've rarely heard a post where one refers to research and empirical without one really referring to anything. What made me ask for the word was the use of empiricals that came all the way to the end, where he says that 70 pst. by students choose the second foreign language. It's a positive error. ==References== 2/3 picks it in 8th grade, but if we follow these students up to 10th grade, we see that there's a lot of non-response. I think that is gross, and we all regret that. In the 10th grade, it's well under half that has second foreign language. These are the actual ratios. I think that one in the posts should stick to actual conditions in a slightly different way than what one did in this post.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-07.ana.ud1769e482	If the representative had listened, he would have heard that I said 70 pst. 2nd foreign language chosen. That's right, that's approx. 70 pst. That's what I'm doing. That this page is a disqualification in the subject, as it is also in other subjects that are optional, does not affect the starting point for what I said. So if the representative had related to what I said, instead of interpreting it, he would have heard that I didn't say that 70 pst. passed the examination. With regard to the use of the term ‘weak students’, I basically agree with the replicator that this is a bad concept. If, instead of criticising the use of the term, the replicator could come up with an alternative term that could denote the same thing, I would like to use it. But it is the concept of 'weak pupils' that is left in the answers of the research community, for example. in consultation with the Committee, and there were representatives from the entire Committee who could themselves hear what the researchers presented. Written notes have been made from these hearings, and if the representative is in doubt about the level of what was said from the pulpit, I simply ask him to read them.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-07.ana.ud1769e493	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-07.ana.ud1769e496	The previous time Stortinget dealt with the question of the second foreign language, today's three government parties disagreed. That is probably also why the debate is coming up here today. I think that is right, because then we have the opportunity to re-examine this matter. Open debates are important when making changes in key policy areas. So even if we do not support the Right proposal today, this debate gives us the opportunity to elaborate on our position. Everyone who has been in government knows that some compromises are heavy to swallow. I think this political solution brings the matter a step forward. I believe that the Government's position combines the central party's and SV's fully justified concern about the theory press at the youth stage, with the Workers' Party's wish for more committed language teaching. 2. Foreign languages have long been a subject many students have not taken seriously enough. The field of choice has not been relevant for admission to higher education, and this is likely to have reduced the workload of secondary school students in the subject. They haven't worked hard enough. At the same time, we have seen that many students have skipped school in the course of their studies, because they have had the opportunity to start over when they went to high school. Dropping off and resuming has had no consequences for the students, so unfortunately too many have chosen the path of least resistance. We need to strengthen Norway’s language skills. As a small country, it is important that we know many languages. There is a lot of talk about Norwegian students doing it mediocre in international tests. But in the case of English, we're actually doing it very well. What is strange about the position of the Progress Party in this matter is that in their party program they ignore all the good experience we have in starting with language teaching from the first class. No, the Progress Party wants to postpone English, so that the students will start with English in the third grade. It's weird. But English is not enough. Therefore, we will work to ensure that most people take more foreign languages. I believe that the lack of motivation in childhood is partly due to the fact that some people experience that there are not high enough demands. It's depressing not to get enough challenges. For others, however, the lack of motivation is linked to the fact that they have fallen off in the theoretical disciplines, and that they experience constant school failure. For many of these, a new language course will create new defeats. Many schools only offer German. It is a beautiful and useful language, but that some schools today only offer this subject, gives students little freedom of choice. That is why we are betting on the further training of teachers and the recruitment of new teachers, because alternatives such as French, Spanish, Russian and preferably Arabic will give the student more choice. Several options will increase the interest in the subject that the student chooses. When Kristin Clemet became Minister of Education, she gave the government-appointed Quality Committee, i.e. the Search Committee, three new tasks. One was to investigate a quality assessment system, i.e. national tests, the other was the proposal to cut a school year, and the third was to consider different measures to make the second foreign language more obligatory and prevent students from jumping off and resuming. The quality committee responded by proposing to make the subject compulsory. In addition, the sample proposed that teaching methods be more oral and less theoretical. The possibility of choosing more foreign languages was also underlined. The balance of the Labour Party when the proposal was put forward was, on the one hand, a desire for more committed language teaching, but, on the other hand, the fear that 2nd foreign languages would make the secondary school too theoretical for many. I'm assuming that all of the other parties also had corresponding internal assessments. There were also different opinions in the various hearing bodies, including in the professional environment. The Education Association supported the proposal, although there has been a great deal of disagreement among the teachers, the National Association of Schools went against, the Norwegian Student Organisation went against, the current Education Directorate, which at the time was called the Learning Centre, which must be said to be a professional body, did not support the proposal, and thought that this would make the secondary school too theoretical. The parental committee for primary school supported the proposal, but underlined the need for exemption. The Norwegian engineering organisation and the LO were skeptical, YS and NHO went for, and professional environments that the Institute of Special Education at the University of Oslo went against the introduction of mandatory 2nd foreign language. So the trade unions disagreed on this point. During the previous growing-up period, the majority of the population, as you know, went in with the Workers' Party's support to make the subject compulsory. The proposal of today's government means that students who do not choose 2nd foreign language from the harvest must instead choose depression in Norwegian, English or Sami where this is the case. When we know that 20 pst. Of those leaving high school, they have such poor literacy skills that they are going to face major problems in higher education, we believe that the most important thing is to make these students better in Norwegian or English. At the same time, we are reducing today's ability to choose more sophisticated subjects as an alternative to 2nd foreign languages. Starting in the preparatory study direction — what is now known as the general field of study — students cannot restart with 2nd foreign languages in higher education as they can today. No, they have to take back the lost hours from childhood as well as ordinary education. So those who didn't have the second foreign language in their early life go out with the final character of the subject at the same level as those who had been in high school. It makes the arrangement much more obligatory, and today’s easy practice of drop-off at high school involves a cost for each student. When the rating is to count on the recording, the student will put more effort into the subject. The party of progress has a clock's faith in exemption. The right of exemption must be exercised in cooperation with the educational-psychological service. We have greater confidence in this choice being made in cooperation between teachers, parents and students themselves. We believe that our new proposal will involve responsible elections. We believe that our solution is better than the special positions of the three government parties each had in mind the last time this matter was discussed. Indeed, our solution involves a greater degree of adapted youth training.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-07.ana.ud1769e526	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-07.ana.ud1769e529	The representative Anniken Huitfeldt put in the government-appointed Quality Committee, which in its time proposed to introduce a mandatory second foreign language, a proposal that was followed up by Kristin Klemet in the following big message, but now wanted to be reversed. What changed assumptions have led Huitfeldt and the Workers' Party to change their view? Was it wrong for the Quality Committee to recommend the introduction of a mandatory 2nd foreign language?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-07.ana.ud1769e536	If the representative Gåsvatn had taken the time to read the quality committee's settings, he would have been able to see on page 190 that I had a special comment, along with the sample member Karlsen, who was just concerned about the fear of a peer-to-peer theory press, that we had to see this in a larger context. This has been an important part of the discussion all along. The only annoying thing about this compromise that we've gone into the government now is that we didn't come up with this solution in the past. I sincerely believe that this proposal we are now presenting is much better than what the three parties had separately before we entered the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-07.ana.ud1769e541	I note that the representative Anniken Huitfeldt thus goes back to what the Workers' Party was in the previous period, and believes that this was an unwise position. I have a question for the representative. After all, the working party wholeheartedly supported a mandatory second foreign language when the matter arose in connection with the Knowledge Lift. Two things have happened after that. One is that Anniken Huitfeldt's party, together with the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party, has been sitting on Soria Moria and negotiating between themselves. The second thing that has happened is that in the committee we have had an open consultation with very relevant professional environments and professionals, where the conclusion was unison: there are no professional arguments to say that mandatory second language is difficult for the so-called theoretically weak or theoretically deficient students. The question is: What professional arguments – and I repeat: what professional arguments – are those that have come to the Workers' Party and not us others who were supposed to tell the Workers' Party to turn around in proportion to what it was about to adopt just a short time ago?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-07.ana.ud1769e550	There are no new, professional arguments that have emerged. This has been part of the discussion all along, on the one hand the desire for more obligatory education, and on the other hand the fear that this will be too theoretical for many students. The professional bodies on which we are based include: The Institute for Special Education at the Blind, which was within the various consultation rounds, and also the Learning Centre, when the matter was under consideration. I believe that the new proposal combines the concern for the theory press with increased demands for students. It will have much greater cost to drop the second foreign language and jump off the teaching with the new proposal. In addition, it shall count in the case of admission to secondary education.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-07.ana.ud1769e559	I don't know if the Labour Party at its meetings will always sing the International, but the Workers' Party is known to be a party that has strong international commitment. It has had many important people in international positions, from Trygve Lie, Gro Harlem Brundtland and Thorvald Stoltenberg. Now we also have Gahr Støre as Minister for Foreign Affairs, who also has a very strong international orientation. Isn't it that the Workers' Party is now turning around, that it has let itself be led to a compromise with the Center Party and SV, a break with this thought? I hear you're trying to show it as if you've finally come to the knowledge of the truth and realized what's important. But the fact that you also recognize that the motivational failure in high school is largely due to the fact that there is no requirement for students means that when you take them away from this requirement, a good number of students will fall out again. Is this compatible with the Workers' Party's thinking?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-07.ana.ud1769e566	Yes, it is most compatible with the Workers' Party's thinking. Those who today choose the subject after the new model will be asked much greater requirements than it was before. I believe that we are caring for the desire for more obligatory education for the majority of students who are going to choose the second foreign language, since they cannot skip teaching without consequences, as many have done at present. In comparison with other countries, many countries do not have mandatory 2nd foreign languages. We want more students to choose this subject, but it also depends on us gaining the language skills of the teachers, so that there are more choices.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-07.ana.ud1769e573	The President would like to remind the representative of Mr Huitfeldt that all speeches are to be made through the President. The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-07.ana.ud1769e578	2. Foreign languages have long been a stepchild in Norwegian school. You can probably discuss a lot of different reasons that it's become like this, but in any case, it's a problem that only 45 pst. Among students who left high school in the spring of 2001, they had only one foreign language, namely English. Most agree, however, that the problems of the second foreign language for serious speed when the 1974 Pattern Plan turned the second foreign language into an electoral field, a situation which was continued in the context of reform 97. It was not improved by limiting in 1976 the requirement for foreign languages when admitted to high school to English alone. The quality committee, which was reduced in the autumn of 2001, dealt with foreign language teaching and stressed the importance of focusing on the language disciplines of Norwegian initial training for several reasons. The most important thing is that Norway is a small nation in a globalised world, and that we are becoming increasingly dependent on good communication with the outside world. In other words, good language skills are important for everyone, not just for the part of the student group that chooses a study-specific education programme. The quality committee said that it's not enough to control English, because there are many places in the world where English is not the door opener we believe and expect it to be. The opinions of the Quality Committee were followed up in the ‘Culture for learning’ big message, such as: concludes that the second foreign language of Norwegian initial training has a clearly weaker position than that of the other Scandinavian countries and Europe. There is a great need to increase the status of the subject, to improve teaching, to provide more good language teachers and, above all, to motivate students. Therefore, the government considered that 2nd foreign languages should become mandatory at the youth level and that the assessment in the subject should be included in the post-secondary education. The government also added that it did so in addition to languages such as German, French, Spanish, etc. be offered non-European and non-Western languages. At the same time, it was suggested that foreign language teaching should focus much more on the practical part and the practical use of the language. Not least, it's important in terms of students' mastering. Just think about the mastery feeling students would get from being able to get a little language over no language. Being able to read a menu, or being able to understand yourself at a train station, we don't give students the opportunity to experience now. Language is not either theoretical or practical. Language is language, the question is how to teach. The majority joined the government's foreign language teaching scheme, and it was in fact only the SV and the Central Party who opposed the proposal for mandatory second language, having regard to the following: «Theoretical pressure in school for many students is high enough. For theoretical students, the introduction of mandatory second language will make schooling more important.’ But the large majority, including the Workers' Party, were in favour of a mandatory second foreign language. The majority underlined that: ‘It is essential that the subject is given a practical approach in order to avoid further theoretisation of the secondary school’. During the hearing, we received inter alia: a message from the professionals that there is in particular one thing that has been put into effect and that makes the second foreign language today appear to be a little inspiring to many students. One teacher who teaches both German and English teaches widely different ways in German and English. English has been compulsory for many years, and the teaching methods and development of the subject have then become. German has been voluntary, like other foreign languages, and that has meant that trade development has almost stopped. That means little motivation and little new for the students. Surprisingly, it turned out after the election that the Workers' Party was overruled by its two collaborators on this issue. The Soria Moria statement simply stated that the Government would not make the second foreign language mandatory. It is difficult to understand which professional arguments would change the meaning of the Workers' Party. Unfortunately, the present position is not elucidating in this way, and I do not think so far the debate has been. Regardless of the reasons for the change in attitude of the Workers' Party, the situation for the second foreign language will remain the same as before: a highly non-obligatory subject of modest status. I hope I'm wrong, but there's every reason to believe that what we tried to do in the promise of knowledge, which was also a promise for the second foreign language, is now running into the sand. I am pleased that there is an overall opposition that does not want such a development, and that therefore promotes the proposal that the Storting asks the Government to follow up the assumptions of the treatment of the Knowledge promise. In the early 1950s, teaching in English was reserved for so-called theoretical students. It was the school that decided who was good enough to participate in English education. Today everyone starts with English in the first class, and it's a seaworthy subject for all students, not just for the so-called theoretical ones. I just wanted to see the teacher today who thinks that English should be reserved for the theoretically strong students, or who think that English education for everyone would be a contribution to making Norwegian school theorytung. Nevertheless, in this case we are faced with an argument that is obviously based on the fact that training in foreign languages is too burdensome for many students. For my part, I have to say that the consultations we conducted in the committee showed that this kind of argument has nothing to do with it. On the contrary, the hearings showed that there is no research evidence to claim that the second foreign language is difficult for the so-called theoretically weak students. On the contrary, the researchers insisted that all students, including the so-called theoretically weak, will have the joy and benefit of learning a second foreign language. In other words, the arguments of the Workers' Party, the SV and the Centre should be quite well refuted through the hearings we have had. It is also worth noting that the new curricula have a clear focus on the practicalities of the subjects, and learning a language skills. At the same time, there is every reason to remember that several of those in attendance warned against believing that the subject could be made optional and at the same time get the same benefit and effect out of it as if the subject had been mandatory, precisely because the new curriculums require a compulsory subject and therefore you cannot just change the assumption and believe that new curricula alone will do the happiness. The fact that there is consideration for so-called theoretically weak students who are the main reason for the government's negative attitude to make foreign language education compulsory becomes a bit strange when one sees that the option should be depression in Norwegian, English or Sami. If the word ‘digestion’ is to have any meaning, it must mean moving up to a level and level of difficulty higher than that common to teaching. That's why it's hard to see that this will make life easier for the so-called theoretically weak students. In addition, I think this is probably an example of this government choosing the least resistance path in every possible crossroads and choosing knowledge and choosing requirements. There is also reason to stress that the mandatory second-language scheme could be a very positive instrument in the integration of students with a minority language background, including those with a minority language. by experiencing formal recognition of their native language by minority language students. So they had the opportunity to choose their own native language as a mandatory second foreign language, and that would be a good thing. Think of the opportunity we're going to leave! Think of the competence that foreign - language students could gain! Professor of pedagogy at the University of Oslo, Kamil Øzerk, is very concerned about development and asks the Council of State to think again. As he says, "Mother tongue is not seen as a competence, but as a weakness." We have already seen examples of government decisions reducing the interest in continuing training among teachers in counties and municipalities. We have simply been told that the teachers now sign up for the course they had signed up for, because the subject should no longer be mandatory. The EU action plan on language learning and linguistic diversity has set the goal of teaching all two foreign languages in addition to mother tongues, including: shall be achieved by the early start of language training. [[2004-2006]] Thus, in a situation where more and more EU countries are taking steps to increase foreign language competence, this government will not take the necessary steps to achieve the same positive development in Norway. In any case, for whatever the language and in any case the constant underscores from the Council of State and from other government figures, it is that we can't guarantee in any way that the second foreign language will be given increased status, will get better learning methods and will get more motivated students, as long as the subject doesn't become mandatory. So you make sure that 2nd foreign language is still a subject that you can choose from if you feel like it. It's hardly an active knowledge policy. Our job as politicians is to provide children and young people with a good basis for life, a good, stable and steady basis to stand on when to go into the big world. Multilingualism is part of this, and it doesn't add up to the new government.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-07.ana.ud1769e625	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-07.ana.ud1769e628	I think we agree that language skills, language understanding and language skills are important and desirable, but my concern is that many students who are initially struggling will not only be struggling with another compulsory subject; another compulsory subject will also make the total professional spectrum heavy for the student. To force the student through such a race I don't think I'm tricked. This form of coercion can, of course, be a bit of a reminder of what the right termed the A4 society of socialism. But I may have misunderstood the Right definition of what is socialism. My question is: does not the representative Eriksen have any understanding of my concern that not only the second foreign language, but the total weight, can work against his purpose?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-07.ana.ud1769e635	Knowledge is not difficult to bear, nor are two mandatory foreign languages. I think we've got a very good insight through the hearings that the representative also attended, which tells us that language skills are easier to acquire than many other subjects, and if you've first learned one language, it's much easier to learn another language. So you get good effects from learning more languages. So I don't share the representative's concern that this will be particularly difficult for the so-called theoretically weak students. I must also say that I am a little surprised when I now hear the argument from the Workers' Party, because it differs dramatically from what we heard when we had the Knowledge promise up for treatment in the previous growing-up period. At that time, the Workers' Party was very much in favour of having two mandatory foreign languages, just to increase knowledge of foreign languages and to give students the skills that are important in order to survive in a globalized world. Now the Workers' Party is clearly going back on this. This has also caused concern to the representative's own party traps, especially in Troms.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-07.ana.ud1769e644	I don't know how far pop music should go into this minute, but Kaizers Orchestra is now making great success in Germany, with the President's dialect – mother tongue. The most beautiful poems are written in native language. The greatest artists use their own goal when they write. That's what I think it's important to underline. Mother tongue must be a good basis to build on later life. That's why I was a little surprised when the representative Eriksen here referred to some professor who said, "Mooming is not considered a competence, but a weakness." I don't understand that, and I would very much like the representative Eriksen to explain what it meant.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-07.ana.ud1769e651	I'd like to do that. I also think it's great to hear both poems and songs in the songs' own native language. But that's not what this debate is about. It's about the kind of skills we're going to equip children and young people with in a globalized world where things are getting faster and faster, and where multilingualism is a very important trait to master. What I referred to was an interview with professor of pedagogy at the University of Oslo, Kamil Øzerk, who gave an interview to the website of Education on November 7, 2005. He encouraged Minister of Knowledge Øystein Djupedal to look at this matter again, because he believes that mother tongues are not considered a competence, but a weakness. He means, among other things: that, instead of researching the strength that the multilingual students actually have, it is a problem that they do not learn Norwegian well enough, and that they do not get a census of the competences they actually have in another language. I know that the centre party together with SV was against introducing the second foreign language in the first place. So the centre party and SV have won out with their vision in the Soria Moria statement. However, I think it is worrying that we should now deprive Norwegian children and young people of the opportunity to become competent and knowledgeable in more than one language.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-07.ana.ud1769e662	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-07.ana.ud1769e665	Learning is primarily about succeeding, mastering. Too many people experience school days as being of little meaning. There's too often too little connection between your own experiences, your own reality, and what you meet at school. Too many people experience the forms of work and what you work with, as little relevant. It's natural that the learning outcomes aren't going to be the best, when many people experience it this way. Of course, this is about something more than a mandatory second foreign language. It's about trades and hours. It is about forms of work and not least about organisation. Democratisation and increased freedom of choice for students were important ingredients in school reforms beyond the 1970s and have been so far. We went from a theoretically divided selection school to a school for everyone, compulsory nine-year primary school in the 1960s and then to a right to secondary education, i.e. 13 years of education, in the 1990s. After one had chosen a line in the old selection school, the choices one had were exhausted. More compulsory subjects both in primary and secondary schools make the choices of the students worse. Some want to remove all options at the youth stage. What one forgets, if one compares to the 1960s school, which was also without options, is that it was a selection school. At the time, there was one line for those who chose the theoretical line, the real school. Those who think of a youth stage without any professional choice, through which the whole year's school will go, may not have correctly understood the distribution in a year's coal in terms of assumptions, motivation and background. Then why should professional choices be made in a second foreign language? There are probably many reasons why mastering two foreign languages is the most important thing for young people today. However, when we maintain the system that 2nd foreign languages at the youth level should be optional, as is the case in L 97, it has nothing to do with the quality reduction, the level of knowledge or the words you would like to use. No one would dare to claim that if a student chooses to spend more time in English, Norwegian or Sami, it means a drop in school. We just want students to choose depression in different subjects. One of the challenges, for example in high school, is to get more people to choose heavy depressions in mathematics, in science, etc. Lack of real science and science competence is not due to the fact that not everyone in the preparatory education courses has three hours in mathematics at VK1, but simply because too few choose these subjects as a subject of study with heavy depression. Today, barely 70 pst. of the 8th grade, 2nd foreign language as an optional subject. In the 10th class this is reduced to well below 50 pst. has 2nd foreign languages as an optional subject. About 50 pst. of the annual aggregates in the years to come, higher education is likely to be chosen. If the remaining ones choose a different depression, it must be both acceptable and permissible. We know that language skills are becoming even more important in the years ahead. Therefore, it is desirable that as many as possible be motivated to choose the second foreign language as well. But what may be equally important is to stimulate and facilitate those who belong to minority groups being stimulated and given the opportunity to develop their own mother tongue. That's why there's going to be some kind of crocodile tears when the right here is crying over the native language training. Not long ago, they reduced the rights of mother tongue training. In the years to come, it becomes important to discuss the division of occupations and hours, but there will be an overall discussion that will concern both primary and secondary schools.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-07.ana.ud1769e684	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-07.ana.ud1769e687	As a mother of three children who grow up as bilingual, I have seen the advantage of being able to speak. That is why I do not fully understand the Government in this matter. On the part of the Government, emphasis is placed on the importance of increasing teacher competence in language teaching. However, the scientific community points out in the consultation that voluntary second language will put language subjects further down on the value scale of key subjects. Furthermore, it is pointed out that if it becomes mandatory, it will strengthen the subject of the value scale. So why is it not desirable for the government to give the subject that value?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-07.ana.ud1769e692	I do not think that the position of the language depends on whether it is mandatory or not. I think it depends first and foremost on the fact that we have well-trained, qualified and good teachers, and that we have good teaching arrangements. If we have it around the schools, I feel reasonably confident that many, more than today, will choose the second foreign language. So this doesn't depend on whether it's mandatory or not. This depends on whether schools are well placed and appropriate and not least have the opportunity to offer more foreign languages. We have seen that there have been limited choices for students, that it has been German to a large extent. So one challenge for us is that more schools offer more languages than the second foreign language – not as a compulsory subject, but as an optional subject. So we want to raise the status of this subject. We feel absolutely safe about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-07.ana.ud1769e699	I see SV as having a sincere and genuine commitment to the weak. It's in itself an expression I like badly, because it's easy to stigmatize. But that's exactly why it's strange not to be in favour of mandatory second language. The representative Reikvam himself has been concerned about the importance of this. He almost makes it sound as if all freedom of choice is going away in school, but that's rather the opposite. Research says that 2nd foreign language strengthens learning ability in other subjects as well. Research says it strengthens the student's sense of being able to master. Then it's this one with depression, which the representative of Reikvam is in. It's not an easy option, if it's really depression you're talking about. Math and science are at least as difficult to acquire. In the light of what the representative Rikvam said, I am surprised that SV has not been more willing to listen to the research in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-07.ana.ud1769e709	I feel like we're listening to both those who represent the research environment, those who represent the education sector, and the parents, and I feel like we've been listening to them all along. What's important to us, and what I tried to emphasize in my post, that's that there must be some choice. Today, youth is compulsory. Everybody's there. It's not a sample. There must be a certain room for a certain choice. I think that's awfully important to many of the students who can't find school day meaningful. We have to have a room for some choices, like we add up here. Then we can discuss where this should be. If there's 2nd foreign language that's the right place to have this room, we're willing to discuss it in the future. We shall continue to have the debate on the overall division of occupations and hours. It's an important thing what we're going to pay attention to, and what subjects, when we're going to expand the hour, etc. Having a room, a choice, I think it's terribly important for a lot of students, and that's what we want to make right.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-07.ana.ud1769e718	In the period Francis Sejersted called the golden moments of social democracy in Norwegian school policy, there was an underlying sentence that said: «Knowledge is power». I assume that the representative Rikvam shares that view. At least I'll share it. So I guess he also assumes that pedagogy is not a coercion associated with a situation, but a tool that can be used in many different situations, to see different people, who can just that way be good at mastering, and that there is a mutual contract between teacher and student. On that basis, I have major problems in understanding SV's position, and I'm going to add a further point: I come from the municipality of the country that de facto has the largest group of foreign-language – 35 pst. in primary school. Everyone knows that a successful integration policy must give recognition and legitimacy. Having a mandatory second foreign language, which could, for example, have been Urdu, or Vietnamese, would just give this recognition. Why does SV, one of the parties that has fought for such an integration policy, reject this strategy?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-07.ana.ud1769e725	I just said in my speech that facilitating parenting for those who need it is important – to facilitate good parenting, to give increased rights to mother tongue training for those students who have a different mother tongue than Norwegian. It's important to us. It's not long since the Left was involved in weakening the rights of mother tongue training by changing the training law, so these are crocodile tears from the representative Odd Einar Dørum. Knowledge is power. I agree with him, but knowledge is not just related to one particular language. What we're saying is that the freed-up time, the three hours that you're not going to spend on mandatory second language, can be used for immersion in other languages – Norwegian, English and Sami. It is clear that there is an equal amount of knowledge related to it, so that strengthening these subjects is, of course, just strengthening the knowledge base of the school. Providing even more comprehensive Norwegian training will strengthen the knowledge base.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-07.ana.ud1769e732	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-07.ana.ud1769e735	The Christian People's Party believes that the Government has taken a defensive attitude towards the second foreign language of primary school. They may not have addressed the challenges facing Norway as a small nation in a globalised world. At the Committee's hearing on the proposal, research teams warned against the consequences of not making the subject compulsory. But among other things, Fear that this could accentuate a traditional professional vision, so that practical change does not occur. So-called weak students will be guided away from several foreign languages. We will be able to get a low investment in continuing education. When Stortinget treated St. report. No 30, 2003–2004, Culture for learning, supported the proposal for mandatory second language. The arguments included, among others: the increased requirements for knowledge in several languages in order to communicate better and to inform the information society. The majority also stressed the need for a practical approach to the subject in order to avoid further theoretisation of secondary school. We are increasingly cooperating with other countries in a number of contexts. Communication and knowledge in relation to heavy organisations such as the EU and the UN are becoming more and more important. Norway's largest trading partners are found on the European continent, and we are dependent on foreign trade. This is why Norway’s development depends entirely on good communication with the outside world. The labour market is increasingly demanding knowledge in several languages. Insight on other people’s culture and lifestyles is very important for developing tolerance and interpersonal relations. This is best done when you can communicate in a country’s own language. This means that good language skills are important for all, not just for the part of the student group that chooses a study-specific educational programme. Most European countries have a completely different focus on the importance of language skills. According to the EU Education Information Network, many countries have a larger number of years of compulsory education in two foreign languages than Norway has. In the majority of EU countries and EFTA countries, learning two foreign languages is mandatory for young people and in higher education. On average, countries have 3.8 years of compulsory education in two foreign languages, while Norway has two years. The Council of Europe’s language policy has a primary objective of communicating as many as possible in more than one foreign language. The Council of Europe also sees language skills in a wider perspective. Knowledge of languages is important to become acquainted with the widest possible foreign cultures and with common cultural and historical heritage. Language skills are seen as a tool for creating mutual understanding and tolerance across different cultures and borders. A study on 2nd foreign languages carried out by Telemarksforschung in 2002 showed that the subject has poor upper secondary education. The report pointed out that the subject gives much conflicting signals to both school management, teachers and students. On the one hand, the school authorities signal high ambitions for the subject, while on the other hand, they are given framework conditions that constitute significant obstacles to the realization of their intentions and that lead to the subject being down-prioritized in school. In many schools, the subject is described as a theoretical subject for the schooly and theoretically interested students. Much of this may be due to the fact that the education given in the subject is very traditional. New media and teaching methods are used only to a small extent in education. It's not enough to control only English, and the reasons for this are more. In many places in the world, English is not the first foreign language and is thus poorly mastered, and in countries where a majority of the population is English-controlled, the population does not necessarily have the skills needed to communicate at a sufficiently high level. There is therefore no reason to regard English as a door opener anywhere in the world. So this is not least about raising the status of the subject. Mandatory second language could be an important step in raising the status of the subject and could master the challenges and opportunities of a globalised society. The profession would have a practical approach with more competent teaching materials and new learning materials. Now we have a change of government. The Labour Party has changed its mind, but the challenges in relation to the need for greater language skills have not changed. Although the government has stated that it wants the majority of potential students to choose the second foreign language, I don't think it's pious desires that are the solution to the challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-07.ana.ud1769e761	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-07.ana.ud1769e764	I have been involved in the discussion on mandatory 2nd foreign language since 2001 and have never been non-slip in this case. After all, I am a little surprised by this slippery safety presented by the representative Lånke. My question is as follows: Hasn't it been discussed in the Christian People's Party about the introduction of mandatory 2. Foreign languages will have any negative consequences for the students? My other question concerns this: The situation has changed in many schools now, also because of a poor resource situation, we see that the plans of many schools were only mandatory German. This is contrary to the prerequisites for introducing a compulsory subject, because students do not have the freedom to choose between several languages. Does the representative Lånke see that it will have some negative consequences to introduce mandatory second language, when only German is the option in very, very many schools?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-07.ana.ud1769e771	I want to say it so that it's possible to be unsure even if you have a safe position, because there are always balances we're facing on such questions. Whether it has negative consequences, time will show. The Christian People's Party has – I can assure the representative Huitfeldt – discussed this back and forth, and we have come to the conclusion that there is more to gain, much greater benefits, by introducing a mandatory second language, for several reasons, which I was in my post. Not least because we live in an international reality, a world that is becoming increasingly marked by traffic across all borders, and we need to be able to communicate. Language is the main tool. The first thing we start learning in life is language and being able to communicate with others. The second is, as I've said, the practical arrangements, which I think have a lot to do, and which will make this subject more suitable, so that we don't have the negative consequences that Huitfeldt's representative is concerned about.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-07.ana.ud1769e778	After hearing Ola T. Loan, you got a feeling that it was the necrologist over the second foreign language he read. But that's not the situation. The situation is that the second foreign language should continue as today, as an optional subject. We know that today the average picks around 50 pst. by the students this as their subject over these three years. I'm assuming that still at least 50 pst, or maybe even more, will choose the second foreign language, and that would be very good if we could stimulate more people to choose it. There must not be a picture of the end of continuing training for teachers, etc., and of the fact that there will be a poorer offer. The offer within 2nd foreign languages in Norwegian school is to be improved. Several will have the opportunity to choose it, and teachers will receive continuing training. So this necrologer like Ola. T. Loan tried to read up for us, has nothing to do with reality. 2. Foreign languages must continue to live on, and there must be good growth conditions in schools. There must be no doubt about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-07.ana.ud1769e785	When I hear the representative Rolf Reikvam, I can't spare a feeling that this necrologist must have rotted in Reikvam's own consciousness; that he now thinks it's going outfront with foreign language, but nevertheless feels compelled to participate in this. I don't think the representative Rikvam will agree that weakening the requirements of the subject is part of making it stronger, that one will make the students choose it by giving it a more positive impression. We all know – the representative of Reikvam too – that everyone needs to have some demands in order to come to life. It has also been emphasised earlier in the debate. I believe that if you do not have this pending as a requirement, that you should take this subject with the practical arrangements necessary for it to become a good subject, no more will choose it. I think it weakens the status, and I think the future of the subject will be darker. Maybe the necrolog isn't really that far away.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-07.ana.ud1769e790	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-07.ana.ud1769e794	Let me also make it clear: it is important to strengthen the language skills of initial training. Language skills are very important. Knowledge of literature opens new worlds and enriches us. Grammar can also be seen as a bit polite and at least quite useful. You come as far as you have vocabulary to, is a well-known statement from Ingeborg Refling Hagen. There may be divided opinions as to whether this quotation fits particularly well in a post from one belonging to the part of the assembly which is opposed to two mandatory foreign languages in primary school. But I seriously believe that for some students it may well be so important, for example. to immerse yourself in their own native language as to know some glosses from another language. Getting safe and secure in your own native language is a good starting point for the way forward. It is important and good that students are now given the opportunity to choose either the second foreign language or linguistic depression in Norwegian, English and, where appropriate, Sami at primary school. That's a good alternative. It is referred to on several occasions in various studies which show that the Nordics lack competence in basic subjects – we can only refer to one case that is discussed later here today. In such a situation, it is important to consider how education can be carried out. It is important to motivate as many students as possible to choose two foreign languages. It is necessary to focus on better language teachers and better methodology. It is also important for me to stress that not everyone should be pushed into a new subject. For some students it will be better to go deeper and broader into the mother tongue and, where appropriate, in English. Government batches wish to combine the requirement for the content and structural strengthening of the trade subject with requirements for adapting training and strengthening basic skills. A more practical approach to the second foreign language is desirable than the language training that we are familiar with today. This will also apply to immersion in Norwegian, English and Sami. The training shall be more practical than the applicable language training. When we want a more practical approach to the new foreign language, we also think it will have a positive impact on the methodology of other languages, that is, in native language. I would like to stress the importance of ensuring that many students complete the course with good results, and that the schools systematically follow up the students' learning with organisation for each student. The choice of foreign languages shall be made in cooperation between school, parents and individual students. It is said that the second foreign language has long been a subject that many students have not taken so heavily. The reason for this may be that the electoral profession has not been eligible for admission to secondary school, and it is also likely to have reduced the work of secondary school students in the profession. At the same time, many students have jumped off the course because they have had the opportunity to start up in a new foreign language when they get to high school. 2. foreign languages shall be made more obligatory by introducing their character into the profession. The character shall be counted in the case of admission to secondary education. This will be binding. In the future, it will also be important to work on increasing the number of foreign languages so as to increase the freedom of choice for students. It's German that dominates now. There have been several languages mentioned earlier here today, and I will also mention Spanish as one after another great world language. It also means that it is important to increase the skills of teachers in language teaching. The lack of qualified language teachers is worrying. The Government will continue the efforts undertaken to increase teachers’ competence to teach in the second foreign language/language depression. Here, method becomes important. We have to get new angles to the linguistics, so it's not just going to be more of the same. At the hearings on this matter there were many different views. That's not so nice. I am particularly impressed that both the Learning Centre and the Student Organisation were in favour of mandatory 2nd foreign language. So did the National Union of Schools. The background for that was the fear of a theoretical school. It was also mentioned that mandatory second language foreign languages are difficult to combine with increased flexibility and adapted training. I would like to stress that not introducing the second foreign language as a compulsory subject should not be seen as a deprioritisation of language training. Rather, it is an opportunity for everyone to succeed in linguistics by giving those who want to do so the opportunity to deepen and master the most central language, namely their own native language and English.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-07.ana.ud1769e820	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-07.ana.ud1769e823	When the Central Party is so deeply concerned with freedom of choice in the second foreign language, I wonder why it is not desirable to have the freedom of choice in the case of side goals – that is, new Norwegian – so that those who want it can deepen in their native language.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-07.ana.ud1769e828	Yeah, that was an interesting issue. I look at the nynorrhea as part of my mother's language. It is very important that we master both of the target forms in Norway. When the Advance Party wants freedom of choice here, I find it a little strange, because I think of new Norwegian as an important part of the Norwegian language as it is important that all students master well. It's too little nynorphic. If we had generalized it more in school, it would have fallen more naturally for a larger part of the population than it actually does.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-07.ana.ud1769e837	I think it's important to stress that all the research suggests that all the students would profit in a second foreign language. If you look at the school, there are also quite clear signs that you need stimulation, and you need to get pedagogics in. You need to stimulate the professional level, and you have to give the subject a boost. The representative, Enger, said that it was important to motivate as much as possible to take the second foreign language, and we are very much in agreement with that. But that's exactly what's the point. Language needs a pedagogical renewal; we have heard that quite unambiguously through the hearings. The course needs to be more practical in order for the students to choose it – and then you are fast inside a bad circle. So to achieve that innovation, the trade had been very good at becoming mandatory. It is quite strange that the Central Party, as the representative Enger focused on the importance of language skills, has landed on a no.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-07.ana.ud1769e844	I understand that it surprises the representative of Gundersen that the Central Party has done so, but it does not surprise the Center Party. The background for that is that we want very many people to take the second foreign language. We think it's enriching, and it's important. But there will be one group that actually has more than enough to do with the subjects that they already have, and then depression in the mother tongue, and possibly English, will be very important. Depression can be very different. For example, depression may occur. be able to learn the difference in upper and lower case letters. We're talking here about a lot of levels of this, and there has to be an understanding that depression can be a lot of things. When it comes to this with a more practical approach to the second foreign language, I fully agree with that. I believe that making it mandatory does not help in this context. We have to go to the teacher's schools and build them up differently, so that the teacher's students learn this, and then we might have to come back to school and let the students there have the joy of competent, practical teachers.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-07.ana.ud1769e853	When I hear the representative Enger speaking on behalf of the Center Party, I feel that the party is acting as a hot defender of mother tongue. It's not wrong. Mother tongues are important, but the impression is that only the mother tongues spoken in Norway are important. But there are many other native languages in the world. I'm a little busy with the Central Party's image, because the Centre Party is known to be a strong No to the EU Party, and it has fought against European integration. That now it also says no to 2nd foreign language, is probably going to be strong. I know many central party members who are very internationally oriented – and we have just heard the Minister of Agriculture talk about the dangers of avian influenza across borders here today – so I want to ask the representative, Mr. Enger, whether she is not afraid that this will reinforce the Central Party's image of being a party that primarily fights for Norwegian values and is not concerned about international values.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-07.ana.ud1769e858	Now I don't think there's anything wrong with fighting for Norwegian values, but it's about having two thoughts in my head at the same time. It's also going to be possible to fight for international values. In the language field, and the fact that the Central Party is opposed to two compulsory language courses in high school may not be due to the fact that we are particularly narrow and say no to everything. This may be because in the Center Party there are a lot of teachers who feel this on the body, and who see a small group who are struggling hard to handle other subjects. They think that maybe one should try to make their everyday life a little lighter and a little easier. This can be the best training in its own native language, with immersion in English — learning to read a user manual. It's not narrow. It's actually wide, and it'll make life easier for a large group of people.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-07.ana.ud1769e865	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-07.ana.ud1769e868	I think it was very liberating to hear the representative Huitfeldt, because she described directly something I felt for as a politician, that a real political compromise has been reached between the three government parties. I think that's real. I think that's okay. But I want to draw a contrast. First of all, I have the vision and the dream that knowledge is power. I am also of the opinion that in what Francis Sejersted has called the golden moments of social democracy, where all parties in Norway set up – yes, Sejersted even says: as the loyal opposition – it was just to raise the theme of «knowledge is power». So we know that after 1970, as the representative Requam drew up the school history lines, we expanded this. Where the school had previously been authoritarian and narrow to some, more would now be present. Then we've been in a quite challenging period, where it's almost seemed like education was the most important thing and knowledge was not as important. Now at least I and the Left stand for the view that knowledge is power, and that pedagogy is a toolbox that provides an opportunity to meet people, students, in very different social situations and make sure that they can have just the joy of mastering. It has also been in our view that a teacher who is safe in his profession, who has this entire toolbox, and who is at the same time a distinct adult, increases the chances significantly for the students to be able to participate. In this context, where the situation has been that pedagogics have almost dominated knowledge – rather than knowledge being decisive and the pedagogics tool – a mandatory second foreign language is proposed. I still think that knowledge is power in a world where we have wide international contacts, and not least my own reference background in this city, with 35 pst. Foreign students in primary school, just tell me that seeing students, recognising them, giving them right in that the language they come with, is also a mother tongue that is worth something in a teaching, is important. So in this situation, the government parties choose not to have a dream and a vision that knowledge is power. You choose a path that's almost like this because something's socially difficult. Instead of trying to solve it, go into it, use the entire educational toolbox and see how the subjects are aligned, you choose to lay down. You choose to retire. It's a knowledge vision and an ambition on behalf of the school, which is just to cultivate that knowledge is power, which amazes me, and which makes me think that here the government parties have actually left it as Sejersted called the golden moments of social democracy in Norwegian school history. Then comes the second point, and what surprises me even more about the Government as a whole – and I choose to take the games and their programs seriously. In a situation where it is essential to promote integration and respect, where the second foreign language could be e.g. Urdu or another language spoken in this city, I experience as a representative in the pulpit and after hearing all the speeches that there is a perspective that almost no one has. It doesn't surprise me, because the school in Oslo has almost never been the theme of the main hall. The Norwegian school, as discussed in the main hall, has been located in the country with between 10,000 and 15 000 inhabitants. Yes, municipalities with between 10,000 and 15 000 inhabitants or fewer, but it's going to be totally wrong if you don't want to raise challenges that are different. And that's the background that I have a sense that this reality, how the schools are able to deal with this, isn't even seen in the main hall. I am even more amazed at the fact that government parties are not involved in the fact that integration is very important for creating equivalency, and that should understand that the school is absolutely crucial to promoting integration. In this context, just a second foreign language becomes mandatory, which is going to be good, is absolutely crucial. In conclusion, many people have said that school research has not been taken into account enough — many have thought that it has not been taken into account enough in teacher education and primary school. After today, we must at least be able to add that school research does not seem to be a data base that would make a sinful impression on the government parties when designing its policies. It seems that the school debate today has a social policy device — not a device based on knowledge being power, and that a broad educational toolbox provides mastery opportunities for everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-07.ana.ud1769e886	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-07.ana.ud1769e889	The representative Dørum says that knowledge is power. But can the representative not also see that it can be cancelled – in a situation where the second foreign language is made mandatory? The left is a liberal party. Why has the representative Dørum lost faith that students and parents can participate in a choice in the second foreign language as well?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-07.ana.ud1769e896	The left is a liberal party, but the left is also a social liberal party. We're assuming that, on a holistic basis, heavy societal considerations are important. When it comes to building and keeping this community – I guess the representative and I have in common – it is important that the knowledge base becomes so good that you can meet the world you meet beyond the borders of Norway, and even more importantly: that you can meet the world you have within the borders of Norway. Including this community, all those who represent linguistic minorities, in a good way, is to make sure that the public school we're fighting for will be the best possible. I would like to add that precisely because the Workers' Party and the other government parties have such a restrictive view as they have of fresh schools, they should increase the level of ambition of the public school and ensure that it shines off and that it becomes good. So I feel that first of all, you're afraid of the colleges, and second, you don't make sure you have the ambitions for public school.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-07.ana.ud1769e903	It was social democracy, the political left-hand side and the trade movement that passed through the right to nine-year-old primary schools in the 1960s, and the right to 13-year-old secondary schools in the 1990s, based on the recognition that knowledge is power. Dissemination of knowledge is essential. But when Odd Einar Dørum links knowledge to power up to the second foreign language, whether it should be mandatory or be voluntary and optional, it short ends for me. The fact that a student chooses to immerse himself in other subjects, spend several hours in other subjects, is not an expression of any other knowledge. It's an expression that knowledge is power. So playing on this rhetoric falls on its own unfairness. Then I have a specific question for Dørum about the native language training. In the last period, we changed the law so that the right to language training for students with a minority background was weakened. Can doorrooms help to strengthen this right again, just to strengthen language training?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-07.ana.ud1769e910	For me and the Left, it's not rhetoric to say that knowledge is power. We really believe this. One might say that in words from the Trondheim Cathedral School tab: Per Ardua ad astra – through the light towards the stars. The fact that it flashes in the student's eyes because the students feel that they are legitimate is what builds, for example. a good general school. That's what I thought the representative Rikvam and I had in common. For the Left, part of the strategy is to ensure inclusion in this community by making the second foreign language mandatory. I believe that the design chosen, with the immersion in three subjects – Norwegian, English and Sami – or the choice of choice, will provide a significant attraction to the depression element, not to the second foreign language, for which the government parties have argued in this Chamber. I think you take the second foreign language, with the school research competence that we have -- because that's knowledge, to show respect for knowledge -- you build a public school that it shines off and that's going to be good. I want to fight for the public school to be good. So here we have separated road in relation to how it's going to happen.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-07.ana.ud1769e917	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-07.ana.ud1769e920	I am pleased with this debate here in the UK on the content of school – not least on the second foreign language of school, which is the background for the debate. The government has decided not to make compulsory the second foreign language of the youth stage in the future. Listening to the debate today gives the impression that the second foreign language should be removed from school. But all students who want to do that, of course, will have the opportunity to choose the second foreign language. Let me make that very clear. Let me also repeat that we want many people to be able to choose the second foreign language. It's an important quality for every student, and it's an important quality for our society that we have a lot of knowledge in more languages than just English and Norwegian. We need language skills, and we want to strengthen national foreign language competence. Therefore, school owners shall provide foreign language secondary education in at least one of the four languages German, French, Spanish or Russian, or in addition another foreign language. And let me underline – the representative of Dørum has taken this up in several lines – that I hope that many schools will give young people the opportunity to choose other languages, if there is a basis for this at school. Not least here in Oslo should be a solution, and I hope you find a practical solution to that. I must also say, as the representative of Mr Rikvam has pointed out, that the mother tongue is important, but it has been weakened, unfortunately, by the previous government. Our solution is not to make the new subject mandatory. The solution lies in making foreign languages interesting and useful for students, so that they choose it. Many students today choose foreign languages between the eighth and ninth grade. There are several reasons for this, including: the unclear status of the subject and that it does not count on admission to secondary education. An important reason may also be the training itself in the foreign language, which has largely been about learning about the language, not about communicating in the language. We believe that if the hours in foreign languages become interesting and useful for the students, more people will choose the subject. Therefore, I would like to stress that I will go in to strengthen not least the teachers' competence in this field, and intensify the work of continuing training for teachers in foreign languages. We will also continue the work of the National Foreign Language Centre and the actions contained in the ‘Language opens doors’ strategy plan, which I will review later this year. So I want the students to have the option of a choice, and that should be a good professional alternative, not the least resistance path. Therefore, from the autumn of 2006, for those students who wish to do so, it will be possible to choose depression in Norwegian, English or Sami as an alternative to a foreign language. Foreign languages and distilling subjects shall be equivalent to subjects and grades shall be assigned upon admission to secondary education. The new curricula will be used in both primary and secondary education as of the 2006–2007 school year. When a student has chosen either foreign language or depression in English, Norwegian or Sami, the student shall normally have the subject at all levels of youth. Only where special considerations so require shall the student be able to choose from or into foreign languages after the first semester. So we want to change our attitude to view elections as non-obligatory. In the case of foreign languages in secondary education, all students in the preparatory training programme shall have a foreign language within the time frame set aside for a common subject. These students can either continue with the foreign language they have had in childhood, or start with a new language. But they can't start over with the same language, as the scheme is today. Students who have not had foreign languages in their youth but who have opted for depression in English, Norwegian or Sami shall start with foreign languages in higher education. They're supposed to have the subject for three years. For these students, therefore, the hours of the optional programme subject in the preparatory education programme will be reduced. So it's going to be worth choosing a foreign language in your youth. Let me say that we have now found a very good solution to how to strengthen our competence in high school. I agree with those who say that knowledge is power, and I very much agree that we should have a school that shines with knowledge. Unfortunately, I have to say that over the last four years, there has been too much focus on – not everything that is important in school – structure. Much of that structure is going on, but we're using more resources and more debate on the content of the school, and I think it's a pleasure to see the Stortinges also participate in it. For this is the important area of development for our society and our school. We're going to have a knowledge school, we're going to have a school that lights up. It means more resources, more committed teachers, and more committed students. And what we add up to here, with 2nd foreign languages, has been widely received, with broad support in large groups of those who have their daily work in school. That shows that we're on the right track in relation to the choices we're giving us here opening up to. But all choices are, as I said, qualifying and demanding. That means that this spectrum we're now adding up to, we think we're going to strengthen high school, and it's going to strengthen students' skills.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-07.ana.ud1769e943	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-07.ana.ud1769e946	When, in the spontaneous Question Time, the Minister of Knowledge was asked questions about the Civita report ‘Should everyone try’, the Council of State said that he would deal little with the document, because it was not research-based. This at least indicates that the Council of State is dealing with research-based information in a different way and with greater respect than what he sees as purely political statements. In the question of whether or not the second foreign language should be made compulsory, almost a collective professional environment has said that it would be very unreasonable not to make the subject compulsory. Here, however, the Council of State chooses to disregard the unique Councils of State. Is it the case that the relations of the Council of State with professional competence vary from case to case? In that case, is there a predefined list that we can access? And what is it in this specific matter that makes the Council of State think that it has better professional insight than the professional environments themselves?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-07.ana.ud1769e953	As the representative is well aware, there is a difference of opinion in the professional community. If you look at the hearing opinions that have come, you will see that large parts of those who have their daily work in high school are very grateful and happy that it is now open to choices. Several research studies show this. But it is also important to remember the following – and I would assume that this applies to the Progress Party as to other parties: that all policies are policies based on a whole range of positions. That means that as we now facilitate a greater degree of freedom of choice in school, we see that the school is grateful for having this opportunity. And we see that the teachers support this. Then we also see that the students think this is positive. But we don't give choice any other way than that we give qualifying choices. This means that for young people who want to immerse themselves for example. in Norwegian, English or Sami, it will also be a very demanding choice – also for our society and for the individual it will be a good thing. I find it very difficult to see how having depression in English, Norwegian or Sami, which is also a language subject, should be somewhat lessening in relation to the quality of school. On the contrary, I assumed that the Progress Party was for elections – I now record that they are clearly not.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-07.ana.ud1769e960	I'm recording that the Council of State thinks it's good to have a content debate about the school. And I have to say, with all due respect, that it's time for the Council of State to start engaging in it, too, after a campaign that's only been about school food, mobile phones and swimming pool. The Council of State claims that his proposal has been widely accepted, with broad support. I don't think that's right. The round of consultations that we had in the committee indicates the exact opposite, namely that there is zero support for the position that the Council of State is now taking. My question concerns those who do not choose foreign languages in high school, and who in this way also receive less language training overall — if you see the youth and high school together. What does the Council intend to do to ensure that students do not delay extra lag behind students who choose two foreign languages? And question No. two: Representative Inger Enger said that depression can be many things, for example. learning the difference in upper and lower case letters. Is that what is meant by immersion in English, Norwegian and Sami?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-07.ana.ud1769e970	Students who do not choose 2nd foreign languages at secondary school and who are going to take the preparatory line must then take this up again, which means that they must have several hours in secondary school — several of these common hours will then have to go to that language subject. That means they have to do it again. And those young people who know that they want to go in a preparatory course of study should choose a second foreign language already in high school; in that way they will be premiered for it. We've always been very clear that it's part of the race we want here. So the students and the National Association of Schools, as well as very many individual teachers who send us calls – we also see it in the public debate – find it positive that we are opening up here to a greater degree of choice in high school. I have to say that in this case I am often surprised at the particular Right, who argues with intensity that we allow for a somewhat greater degree of freedom of choice in the case of qualifying subjects. None of these choices are an easy way out. The intensity of the contributions from the citizens today surprises me very, simply because all the subjects are qualifying, and all the subjects are demanding.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-07.ana.ud1769e979	‘Adapted training’ is a word that goes back, almost like a mantra. They've been used by several governments, including the government we now have. As I understand it, teaching is supposed to be adapted to the individual student's abilities and opportunities to take advantage of a subject. I regret the vote on the draft document that we are now discussing, that the government parties use ‘adapted training’ almost as a counter-argument, against mandatory foreign languages. Instead, you want volunteering. I would like to ask whether it is not to adapt to our very weakest inclination – to choose the least resistance path. State Council Djupedal says today that he wants many to choose the second foreign language. Then my question will be, Will it happen, when you can instead choose immersion in several other subjects and it will be made available for more resources to get it into? Will it be possible, in practice, to provide adapted training in the second foreign language, so that more people choose it?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-07.ana.ud1769e986	I hope that many, along with parents and teachers, choose second foreign language at high school. That will benefit the students, as a society we will enjoy, and it will make the second foreign language a motivating and instructive subject, with a practical approach that we have great faith in. Unfortunately, foreign - language education in high school has not been as practical as it will be with the new curricula. We have great hopes for this. We also see that the teachers meet this with enthusiasm, and I am very pleased about that. Young people have to make their choices, but there are no easy choices here. If you choose depression in one of the three alternative subjects that I've now sketched, it'll also count when you're in high school, and you'll get grades. Of course, each young person, with his or her loved ones and with the school, needs to think through what they want, in what direction they want to go in life. We give young people choice early in life. We think it's wise to open something wider than having to choose one of the four original subjects, and that in special cases you can have language teaching as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-07.ana.ud1769e997	Just for the sake of order: I defined my own educational policy stance in the main post because the Council of State in Question Time during the past has had the habit of defining the position of the Left. That way, it's defined from the pulpit what I stand for, so that we can have it as a common starting point. In the post I was just concerned about the same thing that the Council of State has now said that he is concerned about: discussing the content of the school. I think that's good. That's where we meet. My point of view, which I have explained, is that knowledge is power, and that the educational toolbox that can be used gives more opportunity for more students to master. My question will then be: will the Council of State be willing to consider in particular how to meet the challenge of a mandatory foreign language in the capital of the country? There it is 35 pst. foreign-speaking, and the school authorities have done a great job just to ensure that everyone is involved, that it is a good key to integration. Will the Council of State be open to consider it and listen to views coming from those who know where the shoe is pressing?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-07.ana.ud1769e1006	Let me first repeat to the first thing the representative raised, this with the school policy view of the Left: it is true that I have been amazed at the fact that the Left has embraced the commercial part of the colleges and the warm support the party has given to the former government in this respect. Now that the Left is no longer in government with the Right, I still believe it is time for the party to find its historical roots – as a warm defender of the common school. I hope that the post Dørum held today was part of the approach back to the position that Left has had historically, and that we have had in common, namely to be defenders of the common school. Then to Oslo. Let me say that this opens up so that you can choose languages other than the four that are defined. It will largely be a question of how the Municipality of Oslo organizes this for each school. There's nothing from the department that's blocking it. It will be entirely up to the municipality, through local decisions, to facilitate the choice of other languages for young people in those schools where it will be particularly relevant.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-07.ana.ud1769e1013	The Council of State challenged the relationship of the Progress Party with freedom of choice. I believe the Council of State is well aware that the Progress Party is the party of freedom of choice. But it is also important that one actually takes into account the new situation we have, with an increasing degree of internationalisation. The need to link the second foreign language to the basic subjects is very great today. We have heard a number of times from the pulpit today – from the Council of State and from the government parties – that it is unusually important to guarantee students freedom of choice. This is in agreement with the Progress Party. This means that this government will grant students freedom of choice in other areas as well — for example: optional side objectives and a broader approach to the right of students to choose schools other than public ones? When, in a short time, the Storting is going to deal with the proposals of the Progress Party on the free choice of schools, will the Government also be in favour of this? Then there will be a team in the argument that I think is temporary on the part of the Council of State today, because he does not have the professional support that he claims to have.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-07.ana.ud1769e1020	We're very sure that what we're doing is good for the school. We're doing this because we're absolutely sure that high school students will have a better chance of making a wider choice, and that it'll strengthen their skills when they go on in the education cycle. If we didn't believe this, we wouldn't have. We are absolutely sure that the choices we give, which are qualifying and demanding, are the ones that create a better school. I fully agree that there are different assessments as to when to have choice, and when not to have it. There shall be compulsory subjects in school, subjects which cannot be chosen and which are part of the basic competence of citizens who grow up in Norway. We believe that Nynorsk – unfortunately to a distortion of what the Progress Party believes – is part of the cultural and linguistic base on which our country is founded. And that's what we want to keep going. We have a different view of this, but I think we might agree on the following: there are some parts at Norwegian school you shouldn't be able to pick out. 2. Foreign languages provide an important competence that we want to strengthen, but this also applies to Norwegian, English and Sami. There are also important qualities at Norwegian school, qualities that strengthen the school’s knowledge base and provide openings for young people in the further education cycle.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-07.ana.ud1769e1029	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-07.ana.ud1769e1032	The working party considers it important to strengthen the language skills of initial training. We believe that good language skills are very important. We believe that a continued optional second foreign language, combined with linguistic immersion in Norwegian, English or Sami, will contribute to strengthening the language skills of Norwegian high school students. Until now in the debate, it can be understood that a second foreign language becomes optional even in high school. That's not true. One might as well read a French menu even though one did not have French in high school. Students who do not have 2nd foreign languages at secondary school have 3 years of foreign language at secondary school, compared with 2 years for those who had 2nd foreign languages at secondary school. We want young people to have freedom of choice – the freedom to choose the language they want to learn, and the most need to learn and develop in, in consultation with their teachers and parents. Some people need extra hours in Norwegian, some want to learn English even better, and some will learn Sami because they live in densely populated Sami areas. Our goal is for more people to complete the education course with good results. We believe this is done through freedom of choice, organized education and a more practical approach in several subjects. The Labour Party believes that by stimulating more students and students to take a school year abroad, in foreign countries, Norway will be able to compete in the world class in terms of language, especially when we see that Norway stands out as a country where students learn English early — already at the age of seven — as opposed to Denmark and Iceland, where they start learning English at the age of ten. We want to increase the number of foreign languages, so that the student is given increased freedom of choice, and so that later studies will make it easier to travel to untraditional countries. To accomplish this, we need even more knowledgeable teachers. During the consultation round, it was found that in Finnmark counties, the Sami students had to learn four languages by introducing mandatory second foreign languages. It's with pleasure that we can now say that the Sami students are also given the opportunity to choose, so that they can become even better in their native language. Today, many people are struggling in high school because the school has become too theoretically heavy. I'm not saying that choosing depression in Norwegian, English or Sami will lead to less theory in high school, but students will be able to get good in one language instead of struggling with two languages. Today, many people drop out of high school just because it's become too theorizing. We will work to ensure that a second foreign language is as practical as possible and that teaching skills in the language field are increased. The Spink and Savings School of the Right made it impossible for most schools to offer more languages – only German, sentence! – in a lot of schools. Especially in my county, which is Nordland, there are very many small municipalities, and the smaller schools in these municipalities will have problems introducing a mandatory second foreign language where one has the choice between more languages than just German. Some schools only have the teaching skills to teach in one foreign language in addition to English. I think we should think about that. Optionally, 2. foreign language or linguistic depression, we believe combine the requirement for adapted training and strengthening basic skills.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-07.ana.ud1769e1053	Through two resolutions in the Council of Europe, Norway has been instrumental in highlighting the importance of teaching students two foreign languages. By 2001 at the latest, Member States were invited to provide students with skills in two world languages when they leave primary school. This is also consistent with the EU language training action plan. Last year’s Council of State, Djupedal, stated to the evening post on 27 October that ‘the two resolutions of the Council of Europe and the EU action plan do not oblige Norway to do anything’, and that those who claim that Norway is violating concluded agreements are drawing it all too far. ‘This is a matter of recommendations’, claims State Council Djupedal. It is possible that the Council of State is formally entitled not to oblige Norway, but the recommendations are nevertheless clear and unambiguous, and they have their background in recommending that students are best equipped to meet the future of an increasingly globalised world, for everything indicates that knowledge is an important key to success, and language will become a door opener. Behind the Storting decision on the reform of the Knowledge promise is a broad political consensus that the school should strengthen the focus on pupils’ learning outcomes, and there is a broad consensus that the aim is to raise the level of higher education. It is therefore alarming that the first signals from the new government are about introducing general study competence, reducing the offer by preventing the establishment of fresh schools and not introducing mandatory second foreign languages in primary schools. This is a step in the wrong direction in relation to the goal we've set. According to the Education Directorate, a total of 20 European countries have two compulsory foreign languages in primary schools. Norway, which has as its objective that we will be able to live by knowledge in the future, will not follow up on this. The sociologists ignore the importance of communication and cultural understanding and that knowledge in several languages is a necessity. The introduction of the socialist single school has led Norwegian students to poor results in international surveys. Both at 4th, 8th and 10th class stages, students’ basic knowledge and skills in real science have been weakened according to the PISA and TIMS studies. Particularly striking is the fact that Norwegian 4th classifications are far below the level of the 3rd classifications in 1995. The SSB believes that the level of 8th grade among the best East Asian countries corresponds to over three years of premise on Norwegian students in mathematics and beyond two years in natural sciences. In the Netherlands, the 8th-classes are about two years ahead of Norwegian students in mathematics and one year ahead of natural sciences. 2. Foreign languages have been elective since 1974. The unit school has led to weak students being counseled away from taking this. Those who escape second foreign language become losers. In fact, the trade is not taken seriously until it is made mandatory. There is no single professional justification for not making the second foreign language mandatory. The debate on this issue has largely focused on vision and political markers and has been largely based on research results. It's misunderstandings of genius to think that one can let weak students drop language, in order to make their lives easier. On the contrary, research shows that learning language is beneficial. The students' analytical skills develop, and this is useful in other subjects. Nor is age an obstacle to learning. The motivation comes through learning. Unfortunately, a second foreign language has been turned into a scapegoat because something is wrong in Norwegian school. In my view and in the view of the Progress Party, it is more important to focus on the teachers' lack of knowledge. Teachers today have one year of foreign language learning. Is this enough to teach and use the language through a practical approach? I mean, it's not. Norwegian teachers need a systematic enhancement of their skills. In Finland, where students top European school statistics, teachers have long university education. The requirements for access to teacher training are very strict and less than 15 pst. by the applicant; The unit school has led Norwegian students to lag behind the rest of the world. The idea of similarity has created inequalities and losers. University lecturer Rita Gjørven of the Institute for Teacher Education and School Development characterises in the Evening Post on 27 October last year’s proposal as ‘backstrew’ and says it will ‘seminate the inequalities’ between those who have and those who do not have an extra foreign language. For the sake of the students, I hope that the minority's proposals will be adopted here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-07.ana.ud1769e1076	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1547]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-07.ana.ud1769e1092	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after the intervention of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-07.ana.ud1769e1101	There's waste of resources when people don't realize their potential. When we know that more than 400,000 adults today lack the basic skills they need to master demands and challenges in the workplace and to function in society, the alarm clocks should ring. It is gratifying that the Committee shares a common reality with regard to the right of adults to primary education. Hopefully, there are also good opportunities to find common solutions in a field where we agree that there are major challenges ahead of us. We simply have to realize that there has to be a new grip on the rights of adults to initial training, and we have to do that job together. We in the Workers' Party don't think it's the law that's the problem. One has today provided for such a right in the Training Act. Experience in many of the municipalities shows that there is a systemic failure and a lack of resources that is the problem. The Workers' Party, SV and the Centre's strong commitment to improving the finances of municipalities will enable municipalities to respect the rights of adults to primary school education to a much greater extent than under the Bondevik Government. In this context, it is therefore a bit touching to see how eager the previous government parties are in this matter. The economic starvation of the municipal sector for which the former government parties and the Progress Party were responsible has at least not made it easier to put in place good local solutions to provide adults who need it, primary school education. It's just the good local solutions that you depend on to get successful results in this field. It turns out that tailor-made solutions where working life is an active co-player, and where one gets a training course that can be combined with work, work well for adults who need primary education. In this regard, I would like to point out that yesterday I visited Lillesand Products, where one had a very effective and good training of adults who fell outside the ordinary school system, and to which one in three months actually had amazing results to point out, with adult people who couldn't even read the paper before they entered this training course. So here I think a must think untraditionally. We can also refer to the 2006 state budget, where it was granted 24.5 million. to the Programme for Basic Competence in Work. We are also pleased that the Government is taking this issue into account in a broader context, thus looking forward to the outcome of the work currently being done on education and training as a tool for social cohesion and the growth message of work, well-being and inclusion. At last, this is about what kind of society we want. Our vision is a society of quality of life and small social and economic differences. In this way, training and knowledge are all the necessary tools.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-07.ana.ud1769e1118	As can be seen from the setting, there is a broad political consensus on the importance of ensuring the best possible respect for the rights of adults to initial training. It is challenging, as the rapporteur also explained, that there are 400,000 people in this country who lack basic skills to master demands and challenges in the workplace. Adults’ right to primary education is statutory, but it is a challenge, as the proposers point out, that the scope of education is not defined. Furthermore, it is a challenge to make this offer and this right known to those in need and entitled to such training. In the proposal, the proposers wish to clarify the scope of this right by defining a specific level of competence at the end of education. There could be considerable consequences, which are currently difficult to fully understand, both in terms of practical implementation and in relation to the economy. The municipalities are now in a process of carrying out the promise of knowledge in the autumn of 2006. It is a major challenge for a very large number of municipalities, because the reform should lead to substantive changes, and focus should be shifted from hourly education to knowledge instruction, where one assumes an actual level of knowledge as a goal for teaching. It's been done too little in the past. At the same time, considerable efforts are to be made to train teachers as a result of the reform. The Progress Party therefore believes that it is a little too early to link adults’ right to initial training to the Knowledge Lift. First of all, because the implementation of such reforms is resource-intensive and because there is a lack of experience background in relation to the implementation of the initial training itself. We therefore believe that we can come back to how a better person can organise primary education for adults after the Knowledge promise has been completed and one has gained some experience in relation to the impact for the students, for the schools and for the municipalities. This does not mean, however, that the Progress Party focuses less on this issue than the proposers. On the contrary, by linking adults’ rights to primary education to the Knowledge Lift too early, we believe that increasing the risk of a more complex implementation of the Knowledge Lift. It can create challenges in relation to adults’ right to primary education, if there is actually a improvement in such conditions. However, it is important to get back to that issue. We see that even today, a lot of students go out of basic education without acquiring the most basic skills. ==References== 20 pst. Of those who leave school today, are functional illiterates, it's claimed. They read and write too poorly to cope with a normal reading of a newspaper. The reasons for this are many, and perhaps one of the main reasons is a lack of focus on individual training in the basic training itself. But we have to get back to that. This in any case shows that a long way into the future will require good provision of training for adults. I see that the right has not promoted the proposal contained in Document No. The 8th proposal. There is a proposal distributed in the Chamber today. It is milder in form and more in line with the view that the Progress Party also has in relation to when one comes back to this issue. If the Council of State does not do anything here on its own initiative, the Progress Party will inform us that we will support the proposal put forward by the Right in the Chamber today.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-07.ana.ud1769e1137	As one of the proposers, I would like to express my satisfaction with the Committee's position and work on this matter. Document No The 8:10 proposal for specified rights to primary education is rooted in a very serious social problem and a very serious problem for those involved. The background to the proposal is that the OECD study Adult Literacy and Life Skills Survey shows that over 400,000 of the adult Norwegian population aged 16 to 65 are so poor in reading text and understanding numbers that they score below the level that international readers see as necessary in order to function well in a modern working life. The read-only group is overrepresented among the unemployed and beneficiaries, and is – as is natural – particularly vulnerable to changes in working life. It is not a good starting point to have, when we know what challenges new economies like China and India, and globalisation, are going to face us in terms of transition and adaptation in the future in the Norwegian labour market. There is hardly any job that will not require the employee to be able to acquire new knowledge and practices in the years to come. Norway has the strategy that products and services need to be filled with competence and knowledge to ensure their competitiveness. It's the competence of each of us who decide whether we succeed. 400,000 is a big number. It makes the challenge to appear so big that the individual behind the numbers is in danger of drowning in the law of the large numbers. I've met some of the people behind these numbers at the Åsnes Training Centre in my own home municipality. It is strong to hear about adults who do a good job being promoted and moved to work in Oslo, but who eventually fail because it becomes too tiring to travel four to five hours every day to get home to the cohabiter so that the work report can be written at the end of the day. Many have probably ended up outside, and more people may be out of the labour market if they do not meet this challenge. This is about giving people a new chance. This applies to already statutory rights, as has already been said, which relate to giving a real content to each individual. It is with pleasure that I record the great consensus in the Committee on the problem. Then it says its test that the consensus of an incubator is drawn a confession too far. Of course, we in the Right do not believe that this ‘first of all is about increased financial resources to the field’ as it says in the position. However, the eagerness to reach maximum consensus overshadowed the attention given to this phrase during the final treatment of the setting. It should not surprise, however, that we do not want to give our consent to this very thing. The right has made a proposal that the Stortinget asks the Government to come back to Stortinget with its own case on how to guarantee adults the right to primary education. Many would think that this proposal is unnecessary, since it is a unanimous comitology that says the same thing. But a committee comment, unanimous or not, is not binding. I take this up for safety's sake. If the Minister of Knowledge, as there may be reason to expect, in his statement, will assure the Storting that he will come back to Stortinget with his own case on this important question, we are prepared to withdraw the proposal. At the same time, we recommend to the Minister of Knowledge to promote the matter as quickly as possible, and preferably in the course of the year. It can be repeated: it is nice to have been involved in resolving the proposal in the committee to such a clear position on such a serious problem. In the Right, we believe that one through the Knowledge Lift has developed a mapping tool that allows the detection of weak skills, and that issuing a competence card that describes the right and the start of individual training will be a good solution. This discussion, however, is to be taken when the Department promotes a case of its own. The broad consensus within the Committee gives hope that we can find solutions that provide today's statutory rights with a more real content for the simple. We're all good at that.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-07.ana.ud1769e1158	The representative of Gunnar Gundersen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-07.ana.ud1769e1161	Politicians and parties are often unanswerable. This is a matter in which it is not easy to find the relationship between what the Right has stood for in the past and what they are now proposing. But it is gratifying that the Right now has come to some kind of truth recognition and supports whether what many of us have been doing for quite many years. The background to adult rights was laid in the ‘Reform of Competence’ — the comprehensive ‘Communication’ that we had eight to nine years ago. As a result of that treatment, we were crushed that adults were entitled to primary education. Those who had not received primary education, and who might have needed a new chance, we gave a statutory right. Some of us hoped that the first years of this century would be the adult education pathway — or the training century. Unfortunately, it has not turned on. It's probably because of the government we had in the last period. Now we're going to get it done, I feel reasonably safe about that. In the case of adults’ right to primary education, the Committee was reasonably clear at that time. At the time, the Right Party and the Advance Party were not in the majority when we said the following – I would quote it, because it was important: ‘The majority of the Committee, the members of the Workers’ Party, the Christian People’s Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Left, also consider that municipalities should develop different training courses for adults. This can be done as a full-time course or as a different sub-course that can be combined with all or part of professional activity. Municipalities, in cooperation with the workplaces, information organisations and distance learning institutions, must facilitate the workplace to be the learning venue for adults to obtain the formal primary school examination.’;» Here's what the Right asks for, and here's where the possibilities lie. We need to make it possible for municipalities to have a financial opportunity to provide training for adults, as the Stortinget has given adults the right to do, and as we stressed in the position on competence reform. In addition, the right did not agree at the time to propose a right for adults for secondary education. They voted against that. Later they also came to a knowledge of the truth there, so that they supported the proposal to give adults the right to secondary education. It's important. In the same message, we were crushed by the principle of real competence assessment. That is to say, we raised other ways of acquiring knowledge, and that this should give a distinction in relation to formal qualifications. That time the Right tried to ridicule it and said that now SV and others go in to make plumbers become surgeons. That was the argument. These were the attitudes they had toward adults and adults' right to education. I am delighted that they have now changed their position and are concerned that this is an important field of action. It would have been desirable for them to remember it four years ago, because then we could have done a awful lot. They haven't been in on that. However, ensuring that adults have a real right — not just a formal legal right — to education, primary and secondary education, and to ensure that what they have in their possession is assessed in relation to the general rules of competence is of great importance. We have to put pressure on the municipalities and county councils, so that there is a real offer for adults who need this training. That pressure must also be accompanied by financial resources. We said in the big news about competence reform that it would be fully financed by the state. It has unfortunately not been. Now we're going to be able to get more money out to the municipalities through framework transfers, and in that way I think we can at least get a living in that part of the competence reform that concerns adults' right to primary and secondary education. Then we have another big challenge. It is in relation to continuing training for adults in the labour market — education which is not now linked to the formal requirements of competence but generally to continuing training. There, we need to work together with the social partners, the NHO, the LO, the YS and other employee organisations, and in this way we need to live up to the reform of competence in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-07.ana.ud1769e1181	The modern knowledge society is making new demands on our ability to acquire knowledge and skills. Labour and social life surveys require a continuous update. The concept of lifelong learning is becoming increasingly important and central to the formulation of education policy. In such a perspective, facilitating the empowerment of adults will also be an important task and challenge. In addition, those with the lowest education leave the longest available and have the worst job prospects. Therefore, ensuring the necessary knowledge for adults will also be an important project from a social perspective. The size decided in 2000 to legislate the right to primary education for all adults, as previously mentioned in the debate. Similarly, today municipalities are also responsible for documenting the training they have been given to adults. Then it has been shown that the scheme works poorly in practice. The study to which reference is made in Document No. The 8 proposal shows worrying numbers. Over 400,000 people in the adult population in Norway are so poor at reading and understanding figures that they score below the level that international readers see as necessary to function in a modern working life. It's serious. The unemployed and beneficiaries are over-represented in the read-only group. The knowledge sector is currently facing several important challenges that will require significant public efforts in the future. In particular, from the autumn of 2006 onwards, the previously agreed School Knowledge Lift will be launched, while at the same time focusing on a historical lift of skills for teachers. Furthermore, despite the fact that this has been high on the agenda for many years, we have not yet managed to achieve an adapted training for each individual student. Therefore, there is now a need to prioritise resources on these key challenges in schools as well. With regard to raising adult competences, there is a need, first and foremost, to get targeted action to renew and, not least, to make adults’ right to primary education a reality. The Christian People's Party believes that the proposal for a skills card can be a useful tool in that context. Such a card will be able to identify in a good manner the training measures necessary to bring it up to the required level of competence. Public support must be provided by means that can improve the ability of adult people to succeed in working life. It is also important that the Ministry of Knowledge contributes in this context. If the counties and municipalities are to be able to offer adults, active organisation is required. They must also be able to use student associations, distance learning institutions and other providers of primary and secondary education. The Christian People's Party believes that greater efforts should be made to cooperate against these. With its varied offerings to different age groups, several organisations carry out a very valuable study activity. The study federations represent an important addition to the public education system, and the Christian People's Party believes that these organisations still need to be secured place in education. There is a need for a comprehensive review of the legal and regulatory framework for this training. Such a review, as we have asked in the past in Stortinget, is necessary to get an overview of how to make better use of this resource together with the public education system.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-07.ana.ud1769e1202	The Committee believes that primary education for adults is important both for individuals and for society. Good primary education provides the basis for both personal growth and a life of productive activity. This is the introduction that a committee has written in this case. It is very gratifying that the entire Committee agrees that there needs to be arrangements to catch up with those who are entitled to primary education and that they are given real opportunity to do so. The letter of the law is not in doubt. Adults’ entitlement to primary school education is rights-based. So that's the practice that has to be done. Here they look for good alternatives. And it's probably more urgent, and the problem is greater than many of us would've threatened initially. It's probably in many ways harder and harder for many of us in modern society. There are rapid changes in the world of work. Re-schooling and ability to change and master in many areas is required all the time. Lifelong learning is a concept, and it is important to facilitate the development of skills in the workplace. We all mean that, but it's not all of these that fall equally easily. According to the ALL study, a survey of adult reading and mastering skills, today we have 400,000 adults with lack of basic skills in reading, writing, billing, digital competence, etc. 400,000 we all think is a high number. In another report called ‘... but where should we address ourselves? ‘, written by Engesbak and others, a 2003 survey shows that adults’ right to primary and secondary education is not well-known in the population. One in two has little knowledge of adults' right to education, and those with the least education also have the least knowledge of this right. This only underlines the need for targeted and systematic work to inform and provide adapted training provision to those groups of the population most in need of training. Those with the lowest education leave the longest available and have the worst chance of getting a job. In a Fafo report, researchers Anna Hagen and Sveinung Skule have analysed the situation of adult continuing education. The review of education statistics and the State reports of the Learning Centre from municipalities show that the reform of competence has hardly had a significant impact on participation in continuing education, although there are some exceptions. An increase in appropriate initial training for adults has not been recorded. Many municipalities have been passive, and few municipalities have developed procedures for implementing the rights of adults to basic education. For various reasons, the municipalities may not have prioritised this work. In addition, we know that the municipalities have had poor advice, so it may also be that the economy has put an end to this work. In addition, there is reason to believe that this target group is not particularly motivated for traditional schooling. First of all, that must be understood. Secondly, it is probably desirable to have a learning situation closely linked to the labour market. We have heard examples of this today. It will therefore be important to involve the employer side in the work on empowerment. Above all, money is important. It is therefore of great importance that the allocation of basic skills programmes in the labour market was increased to 24.5 million. kr in 2006. In this way, more adults can gain strength in their basic skills and thus have the opportunity to master demands and change in working and social life. In addition to regular schooling, it is also important to mention that the study federations do a good job here in the field of continuing training of people, and it is important that they get good relationships in the future. As you know, work is being done to look at both economic and practical solutions to deal as best as possible with the various training actors. A big message about work, well-being and inclusion will be submitted until the autumn. The government will also return to the theme in a separate case. This is important, and it will be one of the instruments to develop Norway into a leading knowledge nation. So it's important for the nation. It is not least important for the dignity of individuals. Being successful and feeling a great deal of mastering is important to all of us.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-07.ana.ud1769e1232	I think it is nice both to be able to say to colleagues in the committee and to the initiators that this is a matter where everyone has been able to work together, simply because what is described is so generally unacceptable that we have to do something about it. We all agree that we have to have laws, but we have to be humble enough to see if we're good enough to make sure that people get a chance. It's on the common ground we've met. We've met because we know that one of the worst things that can happen to a human being is being clientized and pushed out of the world of work. That is why it is very important, I think – and the Left would like to stress this – when the Committee refers to the importance of the employers’ side in creating solutions. Well, then, as a committee, we're going to make it clear that it's about money. But then we do something that I think is absolutely right. Instead of saying that this is a sector of education policy, we say that this is part of the whole of society's policy. It is absolutely necessary to see what we are dealing with here, together with the NAV reform, which is under way, and which is precisely about people in this society being able to cope. I believe that if you look at this exclusively from a educational policy point of view and think only about education budgets, we can risk getting into a squeeze. We can risk that the good intention just becomes the good intention. But precisely by creating the forms of cooperation, we can get solutions. Let me do an analogy that's not on this planet, but shows how to work with things untraditionally, for example. the apprenticeship system that we have in a state like Westfold. There's close cooperation between the county council and Aetat in the county to make sure that the students who struggle most with high school simply get a chance to get out in such a way that they become winners, that they can master. You think untraditionally, untraditionally, cooperatively, and get good results. In the same way, I feel that all parties have been involved when we refer to the work done on the NAV reform, and that the instruments from there can be seen in the context of the topic that has been addressed. In addition, the Left, Right and Christian People's Party has underlined the importance of the study federations, as the representative Lånke was now involved. On the left, we are waiting for good and practical tools when the matter that the committee has asked for comes, and that we all agree that we should have, so that we can ensure that some of the thresholds of everyday life do not become too high for people who try to master their lives – who have every intention of mastering it – and who deserve that society does not act bureaucratically or difficultly accessible, but that it is actually being facilitated. I allowed myself in an article earlier to talk about the golden moments of social democracy. It was a great historical moment, according to Francis Seiersted. This is at least a small, golden moment, where a trades union committee in Stortinget finds each other because one thing is so urgent that we want to find each other.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-07.ana.ud1769e1255	Let me first say that I am pleased that it now appears to be a broad political consensus that training for adults is important both for individuals and for society, and that training in basic skills is considered as a key element in further learning and participation in the working and social life. I am very pleased with that. In response to the Committee on 15 December 2005, I pointed out that the right to primary education, as designed by the Training Act, applies to all those who need such training, that the training should be adapted to the level, length and time of education and that the right to basic reading and writing training is covered by the Act. In the answer I also pointed out that the right to primary education for adults has not worked as expected, but that this needs to be resolved in ways other than by initiating a specific right, as requested by the representatives of Solberg, Eriksen and Gundersen in Document No. 8:10, which is to be treated today. Section 4A-1 of the Training Act states: ‘Those who are over the age of compulsory education and who need primary education are entitled to such training, as far as they are not entitled to continuing training in Section 3-1. The right to training usually includes the subjects you need in order to receive a diploma to complete primary education for adults. Training can be adapted to the needs of the individual. Training and teaching materials are free of charge.’ So the law clearly covers all those who need primary education, so some new right will hardly help to ensure that the scheme does not work properly today. This has also been stated in the Committee's draft position, and it is also pointed out that the Court of Justice is primarily concerned with increased resources. The Committee says that the Government’s increased appropriations for the local government sector could provide municipalities with ‘better opportunities for adult education’. In addition, I would like to point out that in the current year's budget, a programme for increasing basic skills for adults in the labour market is in place. Over Cape. 257 is 24.5 million. for this programme in the current year. The aim of the programme is to provide more adults with the basic skills needed to master demands and change in working and social life. The programme is aimed at both job seekers and those who are at work but are at risk of falling out due to lack of basic skills. Training should be closely linked to working life, precisely because we want to test out a system of financial support for training when working life is used as the learning venue instead of the school. Research shows that the target population is much more motivated for training that is related to their own situation in life and from which they see practical benefits. Such training also provides better learning outcomes. The programme states that emphasis should be placed on development and training in basic skills such as reading, writing, billing and digital competence. Measures that increase the motivation for learning will also be prioritised. The basic competence is part of the initial training and is defined by the Government as an expression of the general basic skills to ensure the migration and working capacity of workers and jobseekers. The experience of the new programme will be taken into account in the further development of training for low-skilled adults. I have more faith that such measures, together with a strengthened local economy, information on the individual's rights and awareness of the municipality's obligation to provide primary education for adults, will lead to a real improvement in the schemes. In the prime education message as a tool for social cohesion to be provided by the autumn, the situation for adults will become a topic. Here we will focus more specifically on schemes and measures to improve what is not working well enough today. I understood at the representative Gundersen that he wanted what the government would do. Let me just confirm what has come up, that we want to present a big message about education as a tool for social cohesion, where, of course, adults' rights will be a very central element. Let me also say that I am pleased that today the Right has raised this question, and that we can have a debate here in the big room about it. However, as the representative, Mr Rikvam, very eloquently, expressed, this is a completely new position on the right. I have been with and tried to gain adult rights for 12 years here in Stortinget, and this can be confirmed by former Minister of Education Lilletun – as I see it in the back of the rotunda – because he was Minister of Education at the time the Competence Reform was presented. We had great problems getting Right to understand how important it was for adults' rights to be legislated and become part of the general education policy. We have had improvements in this field for many years, and the real-life competence reform was one important step in which adult people with no formal competence could demonstrate their own competence. Very many of these were adult women, who today have entered a college to become either pre-school teachers or teachers or few other professions that our society needs. It's a result of a recognition of adult knowledge that was previously not recognised, because they didn't have papers that they could do anything. This is the result of a broad settlement here in Stortinget, on which the Christian People's Party and Minister of Education Lilletun at the time were involved. We were also part of this equation. The right wasn't in it. But I'm glad that today, after so many years, you've come to realize that it's wise to recognise adults' competences and rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-07.ana.ud1769e1282	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-07.ana.ud1769e1285	I thank you for the answer from the Minister of Knowledge, and I look forward to a case of my own. Then we're going to have to take this discussion right there. I believe much of what has emerged in the debate on cooperation with business, the use of other alternative sources of training and such things is very important. I don't have a long story in Stortinget, but I'm kind of reacting to the selective memory of both the representative of Reikvam and the minister of knowledge. As far as I can see from old documents, the Right has been quite concerned about training in basic skills for those who have fallen outside. I'm standing here with some quotes from Innst. S. No 78 for 1998–99. But we can probably get back to that discussion. What is gratifying, at least, is that we now quite agree on the extent of the problem, and that this needs to be implemented in such a way that the content of the rights that are statutory in themselves becomes real to the individual.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-07.ana.ud1769e1294	Of course, it's a time for rhetoric and a time for consensus. I'm glad that the Right now after many years has come to realize that adult rights and adult knowledge are an important part of this. It's probably true -- I'm trying to recreate the reality here in Stortinget for many years -- that Right hasn't been a driver on these questions. But I'm glad that the Right Now in the Opposition has found out that this is an important theme and will be part of this. It's true that we have 400,000 people who don't have completely basic skills and who are currently in the workplace. At the moment they lose their foothold in working life, it will be very demanding for them to come back. We have now started a programme of basic skills in the workplace, with a framework of 24.5 million. kr for this year. We hope that it will contribute to close cooperation with companies that allow adult workers in a situation other than a school situation to acquire literacy, writing and accounting skills and digital knowledge that will enable them to maintain a link with the working life and thus be an important part of our value-making and well-being society. I am pleased that the Right also now supports this. It's a new point of view, but it's never too late to turn around.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-07.ana.ud1769e1305	I do not take the floor because I disagree with any of what the Council of State has said; on the contrary, I think this is a matter where we are very close to each other, and where we agree on a common goal of facilitating a real use of the right to training for adults. When I take the floor, there is more background in the post of the representative Rolf Reikvam – who is a party trap by the Council of State. He swung to the great rhetorical heights in view of the adult training years, almost, as had been seen after 2000, after the introduction of this right. My question to the Council of State is about what has to do with the transfers to the municipalities, which the Council of State was also involved in. The representative, Rikvam, said that pressure had to be put on the municipalities and county councils to give them money, and then the government would propose more money to the municipalities. Can the Council confirm that such pressure will now be imposed, and in what way will this be done?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-07.ana.ud1769e1316	I appreciate the support of the Christian People's Party. It was not by chance that I gave recognition to former Minister of Education Lilletun for the job he did with the Reform of Competence. It helped to raise this political issue properly in the public debate. That the follow-up to the Competence Reform from many of us would be better, and that this whole perspective of adult learning got a sudden stop in the last period, is unfortunately a reality and not rhetoric. We have now strengthened the municipal economy, which will make it more possible to facilitate adult opportunities within the secondary school system. Unfortunately, we have seen that although this right has been here and the county council is obliged to make such an offer, it has not always been the case. Much of this may be due to bureaucracy, much of it may be due to a lack of awareness about the rights that adults have, but something can also be caused by economics. Now, at least we've strengthened the economy, and by what I'm saying today from the Parliament's pulpit, we'll probably want them to take seriously the duty they have, now all county school offices. And then we want to strengthen the economy of the county and do this real.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-07.ana.ud1769e1323	I am pleased that this question is on the agenda, and I am glad that the Council of State answers clearly that he will return to Stortinget with the matter. We know the problem is big. There are many people who can't fill out a public form, many who have a bad sense of numbers, and as many as 1.1 million. the Nordics are unable to read the instructions for use in a medical practitioner. This is serious. I am also pleased with the consensus that appears here in the Chamber. What's a little worrying about what we were into in the treatment of the state budget – which I was in for the first time now – is that adult education is spread across many different chapters. Can the Council of States now ensure that more targeted measures are put in place so that we are able to pool the resources to be allocated and that what is to be put into action is clearer?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-07.ana.ud1769e1332	No, I can't confirm that. Adult training has many different faces. Something is accommodating, which is through the study federations that are both competent and have a different character, which is through the county council, which not least facilitates the offer we are talking about here. Then we have the program we've started, which is called basic labour skills, which is managed by Vox, and which is a cooperation project between the social partners and therefore has its own chapter and a separate entry in the government budget. This means that it will still be so that on many different chapters and posts we have adult education as a topic. That's how I think the Storting wants it, simply because the different posts have different devices. But that we want to strengthen, in general, the ability of adults to gain recognition of knowledge is an important part of our government's basic document, and an important part of my political commitment. We will come back to this in Stortinget on different occasions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-07.ana.ud1769e1337	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-07.ana.ud1769e1342	Just to forget. During the reply I forgot that I would draw the proposal, as Djupedal has now confirmed that he is coming back with a separate case on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-07.ana.ud1769e1347	The proposal is therefore withdrawn. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1547]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-07.ana.ud1769e1369	The background to the interpellation just referred to by the President is the shock chain that came early in September last year that, following a thorough evaluation process, the NOCUT, the National Quality Education Body, had signed 27 of its nursing training courses. At the bachelor's level, only the universities in Buskerud, Hedmark and Gjøvik and the private school in Oslo, the Diakon home College, were approved. The two master studies at the University of Oslo and the University of Bergen were also approved. And as if there wasn't enough misery at once, it was just the bachelor's degree at the Diakon home and the two master's studies that were accredited after the management in NOKUT last November. The other institutions were informed to meet different requirements within specified time limits. There is little doubt that this result has been received with both disappointment and amazement in broad circles. For many, many years, the well-known institutions have trained nurses with useful results. It's hardly anyone who had imagined such a mass slaughter. Therefore, it may be appropriate to say a few words about the evaluation process itself. In the autumn of 2004, NOKUT started a revision of the accreditation of all bachelor’s studies and master’s studies in nursing. The aim of that revision was to check whether the study services in nursing care meet current standards and criteria, as well as to contribute to the development of the quality of nursing training, a vocational training course of approx. 13,000 students. In addition, something else has started a similar evaluation of general teacher training, and we can only hope that the results will not be as discouraging here. NOCUT has done a thorough job using internationally recognised methods. There are, among other things: the self-assessment of institutions and the survey of final candidates. SOME 30 experts were involved in an external evaluation and evaluation of the study services. The experts were organised in seven committees, representing scientific staff in nursing education in Norway and the rest of the world, persons with experience in the evaluation of higher education and nursing students. A comprehensive report was prepared for each institution, assessing whether the study offer meets the accreditation requirements and advice on the further development of the study offer. Before the decision of the NOKUT board was taken, each institution had the opportunity to comment on the evaluation report. Therefore, the Board of Directors of NOKUT takes its decision on the basis of both the evaluation report and the comments of the institutions. As mentioned above, the Board of Governors of NOKUT has made a number of demands, and the institutions which are currently well-known must meet them within specified time limits. These requirements change from institution to institution. But it is a very clear pattern: the requirement that the institution demonstrates that the teaching and research personnel meet the requirements of first position competence remains with many institutions. Similarly, the requirement that the composition of the professional staff must be adapted to the needs of the study offer through education and research and that the institutions should document in the syllabus that the study offer is based on research and development work. Other requirements are that the profile of research and development needs to be clarified, that the study offer must meet quality assurance requirements in the areas referred to by the Committee, and that institutions must be able to demonstrate the quality assurance that the practical offer is satisfactory. Not surprisingly, the evaluation has created a debate, and without having to decide on the individual arguments, I think it is interesting that we have had a debate on the academicisation of professional training. Some people clearly believe that NOCUT has imposed unreasonable academic requirements on professional training, and in this context believe that the requirement for research-based education is less important than in the more traditional academic studies. Others respond to this issue and point out that the debate on research and technical development is far from complete, and that there is no going back. This type of question obviously does not have to be addressed at all, but it is well possible that this type of issue should also be addressed in the evaluation of the quality reform that we get to Stortinget. I would also like to mention a problem that has been raised, namely the question of whether it is time for a four-year nurse training versus a three-year Bachelor's degree, which we have today. The NOCUT evaluation has undoubtedly created a challenging situation for the vast majority of public institutions with care services. Nevertheless, I think we should be quite satisfied with the first proof that the new accreditation system actually works like the Stortinget provided when it was decided to establish an independent accreditation body for higher education. But I would also like to remind you that it happened against the will of Trond Giske at that time. If the system is to be successful, it assumes that we take the consequences of the evaluation and that we follow up with the measures and resources to be provided. But then we also receive the reward, which is a significant quality promise in Norwegian nursing training. So I'm back to the background that this interpellation was raised. So we have a situation where all public nurse training at the bachelor level has received one or more shots for the bow, and they have had clear demands that must be met within certain deadlines. If not, they will actually be separated. That is the dramatic message. And even if we in the Right are followers of and positive for private services also in nursing school, it will be a little bit scarce if the Diakon home is the only bachelor's study to be offered here in Norway for nurses. Now, of course, we can settle for the fact that the institutions are in full swing to follow up the demands, and that it's probably going to take care of a lot of them. But it's not sure it's that simple, and in that context I'll mention the red-green government's cut in private nursing education in the budget for the current year. We've received quite a lot of feedback that it's problematic for the institutions that get cut in the order of 1-2 million. kr, to actually follow up the quality requirements NOCUT has now set for them to be reaccredited. I have noticed through a quick look at some of the comments from the institutions that most seem quite optimistic and positive that this challenge should actually be met. In any case, however, there is a need for a significant and general level of competence with research efforts and skills development as the basis, simply because it is important to ensure the continued operation of the institutions concerned. The issue will then be whether the Government is prepared to assist the institutions in this important work, for example: by means of a separate allocation or by deferring student admissions in order to be able to invest in the necessary enhancement of the competence of teaching and research personnel. It is also necessary to look at the availability of a sufficient number of good quality practice sites. So the intention of this interpellation is to get an assurance from the Minister of Knowledge that he and the Government are aware of the problem, and that the will to act is there if it turns out that the institutions are not doing the task on their own.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-07.ana.ud1769e1397	The establishment of NOCUT was a central element of the quality reform of higher education. Something has to be done, among other things. evaluate quality assurance systems, accredit study offers and institutions and revise previously granted accreditation, as has now been done for nursing training. NOCUT is an independent body, which the Ministry cannot impose in addition to that provided for by law or regulation. The activities of NOCUT are governed, on the one hand, by regulations designed by the Ministry and, on the other, by regulations NOCUT itself. The Ministry’s regulations lay down standards for the quality assurance system and the accreditation of institutions in the category of institutions. The provisions of NOKUT refer, inter alia, to: the standards to be applied for the accreditation of study offers. Thus, NOCUT has established the criteria according to which nursing training has now been assessed. In particular, it is one of the criteria for achieving the focus of accreditation. The 2005 regulation states that at least 20 pst. of the professional community should normally have first position competence, i.e. doctoral degree or competence as first lecturer. This provision applies to all types of education and must be seen in the light of the desire that all higher education courses be based on the foremost research and development work. The wording of the provision has now been slightly adjusted, but it will still be a major challenge for several of the three-year vocational training courses to meet this requirement. If the NOKUT finds that the study offer is not in line with the requirements, the institution will be given a two-year period to take action. If the conditions for accreditation remain absent after two years, the NOCUT shall withdraw the accreditation and the institution shall terminate the study offer. In this case, the institution is required to find a solution through an agreement with another institution, so that students who are already in a course of study can complete the study. I agree that the result of basic training in the hospital is disappointing. Very few institutions meet the qualifications of professional staff. Furthermore, the very provision of education is largely based on research and development. Lack of contact with the field of practice is also reported, and the requirements for students are often too unclear. However, the reports of the expert committees offer a wide range of constructive proposals on how institutions can improve. It gives drive and direction to a work that is already in progress, and I am sure that we will have a remarkable quality improvement in nursing training. The review shows that NOKUT has its justification, and it gives useful signals to the whole sector. I would like to emphasise the importance of a broad perspective of the institutions under follow-up and that they consider the individual measures up to the full range of challenges, because there is a danger that the requirement related to the level of competence of employees will divert attention from at least equal challenges — also because the decision at NOKUT was largely linked to this requirement. Professional staff in professional training must have both research competence, knowledge and experience in the field of vocational training. The development of competence must be combined in practice with the strengthening of theoretical competence. But I would also like to comment first on the lack of formal competence of employees. NOCUT concluded that only two of the studios had probably first position competence. However, several colleges were close to meeting the requirement, and most institutions themselves believe that they will meet the requirement of a year and a half. The situation is therefore hardly as dramatic as the interpellant suggests when she fears that most nurse training could stop. Nevertheless, more than half of the study offerings had less than 5 pst. with first position competence, and there were five institutions which in 2005 had no first-time employees. It's hardly realistic to think that everyone will satisfy the requirement already the next harvest, and it's serious enough. When assessing measures that can help the institution to meet the requirement, there are several factors to consider. With the establishment of NOCUT, a system has been developed based on the fact that the institution itself is responsible for maintaining high quality training provision. It is important to stress that even now institutions need to take the necessary measures quickly for nursing training and, in the long term, for other training which is likely to be poorly outsourced. Significant funds and a large number of scholarships have been allocated to institutions to implement the Quality Reform. They are themselves responsible for prioritising these resources in order to contribute to ensuring the necessary quality in basic training. Although the provision of additional funds from the Ministry for Accreditation may mislead the allocation of responsibilities, an assessment may be made to allocate funds in areas where individual institutions do not have clear budgetary responsibilities. In addition, nurse training is in a special position in several ways. NOKUT’s 2005 review of nursing training was the first of its kind, and the institutions were not sure how the provisions would be applied. For the training offer that will be considered below, we now know better where the list is located. Furthermore, the level of competence in nursing training was initially low, so that nurses have had to spend a long time increasing their skills. It will therefore be possible to allocate some additional resources now, without creating an unfortunate precedent. In addition, the Ministry has a clear responsibility to maintain sufficient national admission capacity for nursing training. The government's objective of 10,000 new jobs in the care and care sector cannot be achieved with a significant reduction in admission. Based on these considerations, I would like to consider different measures – some of which have already been implemented. We've called the heads of the colleges next week to a special conference on the challenges of professional training. The starting point is the evaluation of nurse training and the mid-term evaluation of general teacher training. The Ministry will use the annual staff management meetings, which will start in March, to obtain an overview of the situation of nurse training at each institution and to discuss, plan and implement measures. There is a dilemma that while there are many who will now apply for entry to the first position, there are few such competences to sit in the assessment committees for inclusion. The University and Higher Education Council is here set to take a coordinating responsibility. It will organise a national seminar on the issues of bringing up the senior lecturer and implementing measures to facilitate access to persons in the evaluation committees. Several are in qualification courses for the first lecturer. This is demanding, especially when it is now necessary to combine with other tasks, and many spend longer than planned. In order to stimulate as much as possible completion in the normal time, I will consider setting aside funds for a closing grant for the free purchase of persons in the primary lecturer programme. Strategic higher education projects are a commitment to strengthening research at state universities. An evaluation shows that the programme has benefited little from vocational training. The Ministry will therefore assess whether it is possible to provide a device that can contribute significantly to enhancing the competence of low-skilled education and training while stimulating more practical R & D. Otherwise, we will continue a dialogue with the Norwegian Research Council to provide programme funding with greater relevance to higher education, and with the Ministry of Health and Welfare on the use of research funds for regional health enterprises. Practice training is 50 pst. of the training of nurses. Many challenges are linked to the implementation of practice, not least in the field of guidance for students at the place of practice. It is important that the quality of practice is also evaluated. We will therefore point to the need to develop criteria that can be used to assess the quality of practical training in professional training. This last measure will not have an immediate effect in relation to the two-year deadline. I mention it anyway, because it can contribute to several of the challenges NOCUT has pointed out. With this, I hope that the process that's already going on at the institutions will speed up. I feel quite confident that nurse training will eventually be strengthened, and I promise that the department will follow developments in the eyes of the arctic.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-07.ana.ud1769e1437	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I think it's good that the department seems to have an offensive line in relation to what's now revealed. However, I believe that there is indeed reason to believe that the situation is dramatic, when almost none of the Bachelor’s degree courses in Norway are approved. Then it's clear it's serious! It is also serious because many of the institutions that are currently struggling have difficulties in meeting the requirements within the deadlines, including: because they were cut in their transfers in connection with the State budget this autumn. I will therefore challenge the Council of State on a few things. One is the question of the type of discussion that is about the academicisation of what is professional training, which will also be discussed in the evaluation of quality reform. I think that could be useful, just because there might be things that suggest that the discussion of 20 pst. first position competence may not be equally relevant anywhere, even if the level has to be high. Therefore, it might be interesting to include such an evaluation. The second question I have been faced with, and which I tried to challenge the Council of State in my interpellation, is about the situation especially for the private colleges that have now been cut off in the budget, and which have problems meeting quality requirements, simply because it costs money. As the Council of State says, they have to find the money within the institution's own budgets. When those budgets become smaller, it is clear that compliance with those requirements is also more difficult. It is nice to note that the Swedish Government now thinks it is good that NOKUT is there, and that NOKUT is working, all the time the party that is now in government, initially did not want to create NOKUT. So this is a state council that opposed the creation of NOKUT. I hope that by this interpellation we have managed to put the spotlight on a problem that I don't think is going to disappear in the near future, and that a total accumulation can manage to keep the awareness of what we can do to make sure that Norway has the best nurse training we can get.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-07.ana.ud1769e1452	It is the privilege of an opposition politician to say that a situation is dramatic. It should not be a state council unless the situation is dramatic. I have explained in my response to the interpellation the measures that have been taken. It is true that the results of the evaluation of nursing training are disappointing. This means that we have taken action and that the institutions are now taking action to achieve the objectives set. We have good hope that this will enable many nurse training to achieve the goals. Then I'm also clear that today we know that not everyone will achieve these goals, and that will of course be a very demanding situation. It'll be a situation that we'll have to come back to in that case. But basically, as the interpellant knows, it is the responsibility of the institutions to acquire the quality needed to obtain the accreditation that NOCUT gives. That means, of course, that we follow this closely. It also means, as the interpellant heard, that we have outlined seven different actions – some in the short and some in the longer term – that we believe will help to improve quality. The debate on the academicisation of professional training is an old debate. We also had it in connection with teacher training when it was extended. Professional education has a bone in two camps. They have a bone in practical reality: in a hospital, in a nursing home, in a school or in a kindergarten, and then they have a bone in academic Norway, by being a research-based education that is to be built on the foremost knowledge we have. These two legs are an important quality in our professional training, namely that the teachers, the nurses, the engineers or whoever else we have in professional training, have both of these things in themselves. This means that they differ in this way from university education, precisely because they are part of – let's say – the practice of this. What will become part of the evaluation of the quality reform is a little too early to say — it is now under evaluation. The first reports have already come, they will continue to come, and we will present a case to the Stortinget about it. But the question will in any case have relevance. Either the question will come in this Communication or in another Communication, or in a general debate in Stortinget, it is interesting to discuss what we want with higher education and the direction in which professional and university education should go. Without me going to go into the content of this, there's an interesting debate also linked to the fact that the institutions are now more able to define their own position, define their own professional offer and define their own future. It's also an interesting debate, which is linked to the interpellant here that took up as a challenge. In conclusion, I would like to say that I think this is an exciting and interesting debate, and I would like to pay tribute to the interpellant for addressing the matter. I think it's useful, even for the Storting, to relate to a slightly changed reality, that's that something actually is now the ones that are accredited for education. This is the first example of the role of NOKUT in higher education.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-07.ana.ud1769e1469	The interpellant addresses an important educational policy theme. We need to train many in the various health and care professions in the future to achieve the objectives we have set ourselves in relation to annual work in the field of elderly care, psychiatric care and other care. As far as nursing training is concerned, in my view, it has had a rather sloppy way forward to gaining the necessary skills after the education was incorporated into the higher education structure. The focus has mainly had to be on getting enough teachers with master/mastership skills, as many of the further training in nursing has not given any easy run to that type of competence. To give an example, continuing training in intensive, anaesthetic and surgical care has been defined — and is still defined — as in-patient hospital education. There's a lot of good reasons for that. But colleges continue to conduct these educations on behalf of health businesses. However, these courses have not been fully counted out in primary/master’s studies, and this has led many nurses to have had a long run in order to be able to teach at the university. In order to address the intra-hospital training, a minimum of two years of clinical practice is required. Continuing training usually takes one and a half years, and if one has received a salary or scholarship from the employer during the training period, it is also a similar service. Of course, many nurses also want to practice as specialised nurses some time after continuing training, and many take additional training in guidance education or management. If, after a few years in hospital or community health services, specialist nurses want to enter teaching positions at the university, many of them have almost had to go back to school to get a major or a master’s degree. I know a lot of nurses who teach at the university today, who have primary competence in a completely different branch than nurses – it's themselves in pedagogics, physical exercise or other. In such circumstances, it is no wonder that it takes a long time to get the first competence in place. I am therefore pleased that the Council of State today says that there are many institutions that are in a good position to acquire adequate skills. I also hope that it will be easier as colleges get started with so-called professional masters, where one gets a master's degree at the same time as a specialist nurse. It makes the path towards the doctoral degree easier, and I think it will also lead to more practice-related research in the time to come. There is a great need both for specialist health services and, not least, for research in municipalities, which are gradually taking over more and more care services. We do not know enough about the practices in the care of the elderly and psychiatry, and we do not have enough research to guide the practice being carried out. It also applies in all other sectors of care. I trust that the Council of State will follow up on the issue in the time that comes, so that we will have more first-class competences in nursing training and, therefore, education that satisfy the requirements of NOKUT for institutions that train nurses at the bachelor and master levels. It is also reassuring to hear that practical guidance will be subject to assessment. In my opinion, it is high time that it happened within an education that depends so much on the functioning of the practical studies.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-07.ana.ud1769e1488	I will first commend the interpellant to focus on a very important issue. I have to admit, I'm standing here with a little ambivalent emotion. On the one hand, this case shows how important it has been with NOKUT, and how important a job NOW is actually doing to clarify the actual quality of higher education in Norway. On the other hand, it is remarkable that we in Norway are in a situation where only 3 out of 33 nurse training courses meet the requirements for new accreditation after the quality review. The results are disappointing and – I have to admit for myself – quite surprising. In any case, there may have been higher expectations on my part of the training we have of nurses in Norway than that which has obviously been justified. It is obvious that it is primarily the responsibility of each institution to maintain the quality of education in a satisfactory manner. But when so many institutions and study facilities end up on the wrong side of the accreditation line, yes, it may also be that we are facing a never-small system error. In any case, we face a major challenge in ensuring that the further training of nurses does not stop, which will have major consequences. The Government itself has stated that the Government aims to have 10,000 new posts in the care of the elderly. There is clearly a link between the training we provide to future nurses and the opportunities we have to meet the requirements and expectations of better care for the elderly. In addition, this shows the state of competence we are in compared with those already in the care sector. This may also have implications for the reputation of this education, not only in Norway but far beyond our borders. In particular, it may have implications for the future recruitment of students for this study. I believe, to the extent that the debate today has shown that there is a great deal of agreement between the Government and the opposition that this must be given greater attention. I am confident that the Council of State will follow up the matter. I am satisfied with the approach of the Council of State, by the fact that he here is reasonably open to the use of instruments to pull this off ashore. Then, for once, it remains to wish the Council of State happiness in achieving the important objective of nursing training in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-07.ana.ud1769e1505	I think in general that it is a good thing to wish all the councils good luck; they may need it. In this case, it is quite obvious that there is good reason to wish happiness. I listened with interest to the Council's response and found many interesting approaches in it, in terms of taking the consequences of the evaluation available. I guess you could say about this thing that it has two news, one good and one bad. The good news is that the accreditation system works as the Storting wanted it to work, namely as an entirely independent professional body which, according to international standards, carries out a critical review of the quality of Norwegian higher education. It's a pleasure. It shows, in my opinion, that the bulk of the population when this was adopted in its time, was so right, and that the minister at that time was wrong when he argued against the creation of such an independent professional accreditation body. The bad news is the result of the evaluation, which shows that there is a very long distance between the objectives defined at the time when nursing was integrated into the higher education system through the major reform of higher education and what we have achieved from results. It's really a problem, because it's been so long since the structural reform was adopted and the assumptions were defined, to the place where we are today. There is then a risk that the outcome of such an evaluation may demoralise the system. The condition for not having the demoralising effect is that the result of the evaluation is taken seriously and that institutions are able to do the necessary steps both in the short term to ensure that the certificate as a training institution is maintained and in the longer term to maintain and enhance its competence. We know that this is one of the most vital parts of the Norwegian higher education system, because it is precisely in the health and care sector that there are formidable challenges and waiting for us in the years to come. The government has also defined a level of ambition for stepping up efforts in this area, which suggests that educational institutions in this area are becoming of fundamental importance for the ability of Norwegian society to solve problems in the coming years. The health and care sectors are of the bearer beam systems of the Norwegian welfare community. It is therefore essential that we have sufficient access to nurses with a sufficiently high professional level in the coming years, also because nurses play a key role in relation to other professional groups within health institutions in Norway in ensuring the quality of supply to users. I've been following developments in this sector for quite a few years, and I've seen some of the happy changes that have happened, among other things. that what in its time was called Norway’s Nursing College, which was the only university in that country run by a professional organisation on its own account and at risk, namely the Norwegian Nursing Association, was transferred to the University of Oslo and became the Institute of Nursing Sciences. This has gradually reached a very high professional standard and produces a significant number of doctoral degrees, which in turn is the prerequisite for the higher education system to succeed in upgrading its competence. I wish the Council of State luck, but at the end of the day will only repeat the small challenge that I did not hear the Council of State respond to: how will they be able to meet this challenge, when they are faced with the opposite of escalation, namely budget cuts, how will they be able to cope with quite many and heavy private higher education actors who in this area carry a much larger share of the total education capacity than in any other area of the Norwegian higher education system?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-07.ana.ud1769e1527	It would be unfortunate if it stuck to the impression that the newly trained nurses do not keep professional goals, after this evaluation. There is no reason to doubt the competence of these graduates. There are well-qualified students, and most of them are also well-motivated for their studies, so it would be very unfortunate, as I said, if a picture is now drawn after this evaluation that the graduates who come from these educational institutions do not keep professional goals. I feel reasonably sure that they do. SOMETHING, through the criteria they have adopted, has followed up what the Storting has said. This vocational training is part of our higher education and university system and is intended to conduct research-based education. It shall in turn lead to their having a minimum of competence, a certain proportion of the posts being seconded. It is above all in the area that the Council of State also stressed that the institutions do not meet the criteria. There is reason to question whether those criteria should be there unambiguously for all institutions. Is there any reason to make a distinction and say that not all nursing education, all higher education institutions, should have a heavy research competence? Everyone must have research competence. There must be no doubt about it, because they will be conducting research-based education. But are we too rigid when we assume that everyone must have a relatively heavy research competence? Should we think about someone having a greater research responsibility, while we don't make exactly the same demands on others? If we stick to this requirement, it could mean centralization; it could mean that part of the institutions that are located on the outskirts, and that are also relatively small, with relatively few students, will have problems maintaining their education provision. So there's a reason to see if it's right to ask all the educational institutions to have the relatively heavy research competence. But there must be no doubt that, as a whole, we in the country need to invest in more research and bet on developing new knowledge in this area. This applies in so far as the professions in general are concerned, but in particular the professional professions in the field of health education and training. I think it's terribly important that we use resources to generate new knowledge, and that can almost only happen through increased research. My recommendation to the Council of State is to consider whether it might be right to impose slightly different requirements on the different institutions. So a little comment on some of what Ine Marie Eriksen suggested to look at the length of education and consider whether we should go back to a four-year education. I will not recommend this. I think we're going to hold on to this education as it is now built up – on the very structure of a bachelor's and a master's degree. What we should do is spend more resources on mastering. That, I think, is an important priority, and it will also be a recommendation to our most cumbersome educational institutions in this professional education that they are using resources and forces to build up master education. This is once again the basis for continuing with doctoral degrees and increasing the competence to be raised. My message is, the impression should not be that these training courses are in crisis and that those who are now coming from these educational institutions do not pursue professional objectives. As I said, I feel reasonably sure that they do.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-07.ana.ud1769e1540	There is reason to give praise to the interpellant that she has addressed this important topic. Quality and capacity in nursing training are essential both for the development of health services and for the content and quality of services. This makes it impossible for both the quality and recruitment of nurses to be left to individual colleges alone. Health and education authorities must take national responsibility for ensuring good education and health care. The quality reform of higher education demands greater and new requirements, including those of nurse training. The evaluation carried out by NOCUT shows that nurse training in Norway is too poor, simply because it is too poor. The evaluation must result in higher education management paying more attention to the training they have done before. This applies not only to resources but also to adequate skills in the teaching staff. There is no reason to doubt that we have a very up-and-coming and good team of nurses in Norway. However, the evaluation has shown that teachers’ lack of research competence is the critical point of many of the schools that train them. It is consistently in almost all the reports for basic education that the teacher’s staff is formally too poorly qualified. As has been shown, in the future there will be a need to increase the number of nurses with a higher degree and doctorate degree. It is also necessary to establish research positions for nurses to a greater extent than at present. In order to enhance their competence, higher education institutions themselves need to give internal priority to nursing training. It is important that the Ministry now assess whether the higher education institutions have sufficient transfers and resources to meet the requirements of quality reform. Such an assessment must also apply to the private higher education institutions. In the government’s draft budget for 2006, the Government proposed that the basic allocation be cut to three out of five private nurseries. These were Lovisenberg diakonale college, Diakonova High School and Bethany Diakonale High School. The cut was completely incomprehensible in the light of the efforts made by the government to get more hands in the care sector. The government itself did not provide any good reason why a person should deviate from the current funding model, with a cut in the basic allocation to randomly selected colleges. The proposal was unreasonable, and it gives confusing guidance signals to the sector. The colleges concerned train nurses according to the activity requirements set by the Ministry of Knowledge itself. These higher education institutions are part of the overall educational needs, enabling healthcare to meet the growing need for health care. In the proposal, the Government expected the cut to result in approximately the same level of activity compared to 2005. It's obviously impossible. With almost 10 pst. cut in relatively small basic appropriations, this will clearly have an impact on educational capacity. One point in this context is the possibility of conducting research at private universities. The Council of State mentioned in its first intervention that he would strengthen research at the public educational institutions, but did not mention the private ones. I guess the same thing must also be done at these schools. So the Christian People's Party has called for a new broad settlement and a common promise for a dignified care for the elderly: the Elder Reform II. The proposal has been widely accepted. A new old age reform must primarily ensure that there are more staff, not least nurses, in the care of the elderly, and these must be qualified. We need to increase recruitment and enhance the competence of all types of health and care professionals. NOCUT has now given us a quality assurance of the education that we had not before. Despite the weak result, we have a thorough review of the education of all the institutions that have revealed how the shoe prints. In this way, state authorities and individual universities and universities are given the opportunity to make a targeted priority in order to meet the requirements.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-07.ana.ud1769e1564	It is right to commend Ine Marie Eriksen, who has addressed this topic. I would like to say that this is an important and difficult debate. NOCUTS accreditation of different education and training institutions is our guarantee that the training meets the requirements of standards and criteria. It may therefore seem dramatic when, in September 2005, NOKUT warns that a total of 30 out of 33 nurse training courses in Norway do not meet the requirements for the revision of accreditation. I do not have an overview of, or a prerequisite for, assessing the actual assessments of NOKUT. However, I am concerned that the Stortinge assesses the reasons why NOKUT concludes this with regard to these study services. When almost all nurse training is considered not to satisfy the requirements, it suggests that the reasons are in the system as such and not in the quality of the individual apprenticeship. It is therefore necessary to identify the underlying reasons why a central part of higher education — which is nurse training — is now being assessed, as NOCUT does in its reports. It is very important that this is not understood as if it were the quality of unsavory graduates. This is as mentioned both difficult and complicated, but unfortunately it is that outside people it is perceived by someone that nurse training as such is not good enough. Now the state council said that many of the educational institutions think they're pretty close to meeting the requirement to be approved by NOKUT, and that's very good. But it doesn't seem to be outside either. So here's also a job to do in relation to information. As I have seen the situation, it is mainly the composition of the trade union staff and the lack of first position competence that are NOCUT's appeal points. As far as I'm concerned, there's very limited access to primary competences in nursing science. With about 35 doctoral thesises since this became possible, it is obvious that such competence is still a scarcity factor. For regional colleges it will be extra demanding to attract research competence. However, if it is demanding, it is not sustainable as an argument for the possible centralisation of the training of nurses. This professional group is needed throughout the country. In the course of last year's research notice, the Centre Party pointed out that higher education institutions have very different conditions to compete for the same research resources, both in terms of money and competence. It is important that the funding system in the sector and the allocation of research funds do not lead to destructive competition for appropriations and competences, where the differences in the sector are cemented in the disfavor of higher education institutions. It is now important to consider which measures can specifically enable nurse training to meet the given criteria. In addition, this issue needs to be considered in the review of the funding system. SOMETHING has given institutions two years to satisfy given requirements. Two years is short. Close cooperation between those responsible is necessary. I'm thinking here of the department, the NOCUT and the different educational institutions. Perhaps these combined can combine obligatory plans for the various institutions that are actually realistic to implement. It was reassuring to hear the Council of State today, which said that the Department here would assume a coordinating responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-07.ana.ud1769e1585	I have a history in this matter, in the sense that I agreed to deal with the matter that led to our getting NOCUT. I think it is good that we have received this quality assurance body. I also belong to those who will give praise both to the interpellant and to the Council of State for the way they have dealt with the challenge. In connection with the reflections of the representative, I want to do some reflections, too. It can not be so difficult to get researchers to small places when we are able to get lawyers with top education to end up in the most pig-grown places in Norway. Because we can do that. We were able, for example, to place Norwegian lawyers in a centralised office for compensation for victims of violence in Vardø. Some of the applicants even believed that the workplace was in Bærum. But when they discovered that it was not there, they took the job with a fresh reception. So I didn't want to see so pessimistic that in a country where the level of education increases as high as it does in Norway – where we get so many well-trained people, people with higher education – we will get to it. I believe in the systematics that I perceive was in the response of the Council of State, and I want to link that comment to it. However, I would like to support the interpellant, as I understood her, in that it would be good if we on the part of the Government in connection with the announcement of the quality reform also received a review of what has happened to the vocational training, as far as possible – we know that it is possible in the case of nursing training, we will see how far you get with the teacher training – and that in this context the department's fundamental assessments of this type of education were also given, so that Stortinget got a chance to look at it in a natural context. Such a big message would at least give a natural opportunity to do so. It may also be that the Council of State has other options that he wants to use, and that is good in that case. I would like to make two comments on what has been so much affected here, the so-called private colleges. I can't stop wondering what's going on here, because we know that these are colleges that in our country have been pioneers both in building educational areas and in solving societal tasks. I'll be careful to ask the Council of State next time he has either much or little money at his disposal, to treat the private colleges and the public colleges in the same way. That's the point. Both types of colleges carry out a social mission. They carry out a vital social mission. We also have, as the interpellant was in, a private college that did well at this NOCUT review that applied to nursing schools. I also want to discuss a different relationship, and that's that it's not always given that the private colleges get a share in what happens when it comes to scholarship holders. Some of us have comments to make in connection with the current year's budget. I would urge the Council of State to take care of – precisely because the private colleges are part of the Norwegian higher education system, they are an important part of the higher education system that both train nurses and teachers, and in order to use the representative's words, teacher training and nursing training are two important pillars in the Norwegian community – that this will also be a fair treatment, a non-discrimination, with regard to the possibility of obtaining scholarships that can enable you to build on the skills you have. In this way, we build the community in which we are interested in Norway with regard to getting good professionals who have a good professional education, which stands out for research and which is professional. The education we have in the nursing field has a long and good story in Norway in being good. That is why I am also convinced that the seriousness of the NOCUT review that the Council of State is commenting on such a Council of State should, in my opinion, do so, and the seriousness that the Council of State signals by stating how he will go into it is being followed up. It's very important, so we can count on what's required of these educations to come into place. I also think it's right, as many people have stressed, that you get a factual and sober information work out to people that there's nothing wrong with the people who are educated there, but that we need them in Norway, and that we trust that they will do a good job.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-07.ana.ud1769e1602	Norwegian nurse training may have been ground up in a corner. Something should be done to get the education into a more open landscape. As a representative from Hedmark, it is nice to note that the University of Hedmark was one of the three state nurse training courses that gained the approved status of NOKUT's own evaluation committees. This was a judgment that was based on a long list – after what I have been informed, a total of ten quality critical factors. However, the Hedmark University did not finally achieve reaccreditation, because the NOKUT board passed one quality criterion over all the others. That was the requirement of 20 pst. the teachers should have first competence, i.e.: doctorate or similar. This raises more questions. Firstly, there is reason to ask yourself whether doctoral degrees are so crucial for this type of study. Nursing is, hopefully, still a rather practical subject. It's the care and care of people we're talking about. Of course, there is no doubt that you have to have some theoretical knowledge, but the practical aspects of the subject must to a large extent also be the focus. There must be reason to ask whether doctoral degrees are essential to learning away these skills. Paradoxically, the requirement for 20 pst. First-time competence could result in poorer follow-up, less time devoted to guidance and thus poorer education, because the focus must be on this one quality requirement from NOKUT. Second, it's going to meet a 20 pst requirement. The first qualification within two years means that the higher education institutions must devote a lot of resources and free up a lot of teacher powers to take on-the-job training. Nevertheless, there is doubt as to whether the goal can be achieved. It takes more than two years to reach a doctorate. Nursing is a young academic subject. I was informed from the Hedmark University that in today's nursing education there are still many university teachers who do not have master/primary education. These are professionally qualified additives that represent valuable practical experience. They achieve the best evaluation from the students, but have a long way to a possible doctorate. There must be reason to ask questions about this without weakening the good and important job that NOCUT does. Is it relevant for a practical orientated education as a nurse to make as high a requirement as 20 pst? the first qualification of teachers? And depending on the answer to this question, one has to be able to ask the question of whether the requirement has to be met in the next two years. A person is at risk of paralysing an entire vocational training course with requirements that not many can achieve. It can give us a market for skills where institutions are forced into an unfortunate competitive situation because of a shortage that cannot be filled in so short a time. That, I think, is a reason to consider measures against, and I don't think we deserve to force such a situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-07.ana.ud1769e1619	It has been interesting to follow this debate, not least with a background in my time as responsible for Norwegian healthcare. I think the debate in many ways is characterized by the fact that we have the solution, but what is the problem? From the NOKUT side, the solution is obviously a higher academic level, more academic degrees, more doctoral thesis, etc. But what's the problem? In my view, if you want to answer that question, you should go out to those who are closest to the patients, to those who are responsible for health care in this country, care and care, and ask what they need in terms of nursing skills. Then I have to say, with my close contact with that service for many years, that I still have the benefit of hearing the call for more doctoral degrees. I am still in favour of hearing a strong call for expertise in scientific method and statistics. Nursing is a purely practical occupation. That doesn't mean it shouldn't be academically anchored, that it shouldn't have a theoretical foundation. But this means that what has happened in recent years is that hospitals have increasingly had to demand additional training, practice and adaptation at the workplace to the candidates who come from nursing schools, because they simply have a too theoretical background and cannot enter the job properly. I do not hesitate to say that this is related to a year-long professional struggle, which has been important for many reasons, which has had a major impact on the status of the profession in many areas, but which has had the dubious double effect that with the lifting of the academic status of the profession the profession has also received a more theoretical education. The academicisation of this education is a problem for practice, because in practice it has had to be filled with even more practice, which has not been given in education. That is why I am pleased that the Council of State has taken a grip on this matter. In line with the NOCUT and its independent role, but nevertheless against the problem — the fact that nurse training in this country is largely separated or at risk of becoming so by this accreditation body — he has today announced a thorough assessment of different types of action. In faith of that process, I would like to send some good advice on the way. I believe that such a thorough assessment should include an assessment of what is needed to meet the needs of the service, not just the needs of NOKUT. I would suggest that such a review also involve healthcare directly. Go out and ask — not in a superficial manner by sampling, but in a proper dialogue with health care and ask: What is needed by future nurses? What are the educational expectations? Involve the Health Authority. Go and look into the supervisory reports from the Health Care Authority where the care services are in trouble. There's no lack of doctoral competence that it's on, but there may be something as fundamental as the lack of ability to figure out a list of drugs, which unfortunately many nurses fail at many times in their education. I think the result of such a process must be that practice is given a completely different weight in this training, which is a preparation for a purely practical profession. I believe that, on that basis, there can also be quite different demands from educational institutions on health care itself, which must definitely be involved in raising the field of practice by providing good practice places and good professional guidance and follow-up in practice places. I think this is necessary if not NOCUT is just going to be the emperor's new clothes.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-07.ana.ud1769e1634	I'm going to be brief and first thank you for an interesting debate, which has highlighted some of the issues we wanted to raise in the interview we traveled. In addition, I think it is important that I take the opportunity to repeat what I wanted to do initially, and that the representative Dørum also followed up, namely that it might be right to take a discussion on, among other things. The 20 pst requirement for the evaluation of the quality reform, if only to establish that it is a correct and justified requirement. In this way, you can get more calm about the evaluations NOCUT does – it is very important for the legitimacy of NOCUT – and you can get some rest around nursing training, precisely because this discussion is probably going to be raised more than once when you have to accreditation and reaccredit nurse training again. So it would have been good to get it fixed. For NOKUT, nothing but accreditation and reaccreditation and evaluation has been done in line with the Storting assumptions. So something has just done what they have been told to do. Finally, I would also like to reiterate what several of the representatives have been involved in this debate, which we have to hear an answer to, in concrete terms, how private nurse training, which has been cut through the state budget in the autumn of 2005, should be able to maintain quality, and not least meet the NOCUT requirements for them to be reaccredited.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-07.ana.ud1769e1643	Like several of those who have spoken in this debate, I think this has been a good and informative debate, about a type of subject which we in the main room have not really discussed in this way, linked to NOKUT, the new body which has an independent position in relation to us, and which has made criteria for the accreditation of education, where we have faced a situation in which nurse training has received an accreditation that gave rise to this debate. We know that in the next round there will be general teacher training to be accredited. There is certainly every reason to believe that there will also be a debate there, not a debate in the main hall, so at least a public debate. We can see that from the mid-term evaluation that has now been carried out. This is the new system that's in place, that means there's a system that we're going to deal with. Several have suggested that we should look at this requirement of 20 pst. in first position competence. It's a regulation that NOCUT itself has decided. As such, the Ministry is not even a consultative body. This is part of the NOCUT's independent position in relation to the ministry and the quality requirements that NOCUT believes are justified in these trainings. I mean, without foreshadowing anything, it's wise that the whole system we've built up, at any time has to be evaluated and evaluated to see if we achieve what we as a society are best served with. Because it's clear that we have a national responsibility in this room, and not least in the Government, because we have a higher education that has a quality, a dimensioning and not least a prevalence that makes us achieve what we want. It's an important part of this, it's a national responsibility we have by the education authority. The quality reform shall be evaluated and returned to the Stortinget. That means we'll get back to these questions in different contexts. I am pleased that more people are satisfied that we have now taken action. The seven points that I mentioned in my article, we are now closely following up. I am pleased with the congratulations that the representatives send to the Department and to the Council of State. I'm going to do what I can to follow this closely against the institutions. We need to have a high quality of our nursing training, and we have a short time to meet the quality requirements that NOKUT has set. Then more people have come into the private colleges. To that it's no other thing to say than that private colleges are an important part of our higher education, they train many candidates that we as a society need. Then it will be that the private colleges, along with other state colleges and others, will at all times be subject to the assessment of government and big business. There's nothing else to say about it but that's how it's been in this room at any time. Storing and government assess where you increase and where you reduce, based on the money you have at your disposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-07.ana.ud1769e1656	The Interpellation Debate on Case No. Four is over. In order not to get the debate on the next matter divided and divided, the President proposes that we now cancel the morning meeting and that a new meeting be held at noon. 18 to deal with the remaining issues on the agenda. - It's taken for granted.
