ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-23.ana.ud1471e51	The so-called alternate of the state of Troms, Ole-Anton Tegen, has taken a seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-23.ana.ud1471e68	At the request of the Foreign Affairs Committee, the President will propose that the maximum speaking time for speeches by the main speakers from each party group and members of the Government be set at 10 minutes, and for other speakers at 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a succession of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers from each party group and five lines with replies from members of the Government. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-23.ana.ud1471e75	A few days ago, I saw the documentary «Our Daily Bread» on Swedish TV2, a program about the Indian woman Vandana Shiva – the woman called «The Green Killer», who is conducting an effective fight for the right to own food production for the Indian countryside – and about her fight against the patenting of valuable cereal varieties by multinational food producers in her home country. She had just won an important victory because the EU withdrew the patent rights on gluten-poor wheat from Monsanto. Vandan Shiva represents the new independent and active women in several of the countries of the south, and shows the importance of ending up on women’s networks and local gender equality. At the same time, the story of Vandana Shiva's work highlights the red thread in the Minister of Development's thorough presentation, namely: Development policy is not just aid, although it is. Contributing to peace, jobs, food production and distribution and infrastructure is equally important. This is both the responsibility of the international community and the duty of local and national authorities to provide it. The authorities of a country have a responsibility for the people having the food they need. It is good governance in a broad sense. At the same time, this is about international justice, international distribution policy – a world order in which we have a global development policy, as we built the Norwegian welfare society throughout the last century. The extreme poverty of our time is the greatest challenge of human rights, and I believe the challenge of human rights. The right perspective is central, as has also been established by a broad majority in the treatment of both the 2005 Development Communication and the 2004 Globalisation Communication. In our development policy, we must place the crucial emphasis on the Millennium Goals adopted by the UN General Assembly in September 2002. They commit Member States to the environment, peace, security, development, poverty reduction, human rights, democracy and good governance. The best known goal is to halve poverty, the proportion of people living on less than a dollar per. day, by 2015. It's a difficult goal. It may not be possible to achieve this by 2015, but it is possible to achieve significant improvements. The definition of the objectives is otherwise set so low that billions of people to whom we refer in daily terms as very poor fall outside. But as the Council of State stressed: if this generation does not abolish poverty, it is not because we cannot, but it is because we do not want enough. One of our challenges, as the Council of State also said, is that although we need to focus primarily on the MUL countries, especially in Africa, it is important to be aware that the large numbers of poor people are actually in middle-income countries, among others. in Latin America. This is a developmental challenge not only for individual countries but also for the world community. Development policy must be an integral part of our foreign policy. On 8 February the Minister for Foreign Affairs, in his statement, launched a new policy towards Africa: It is time to think new and strategically about attitudes towards the whole continent.Norway needs a renewed African policy that can see development and foreign policy in the context.We also need strategic alliances with African countries. We must seek foreign policy cooperation with African countries and institutions on both African and other international issues, for example. oil, energy, the WTO and conflict resolution, and we must focus on increasing contact with both the African Union and African countries. The head of the African Union Commission, Alpha Ouman Konaré, had recently met with both government members and with the Foreign Affairs Committee. Sudan, both aid and UN forces, was on the agenda, but also developments in Zimbabwe, Kenya and the Horn of Africa, and, of course, the African Union's capacity for conflict resolution and peace. Some time ago, we met with parliamentarians from São Tomé. They are now receiving Norwegian assistance under the Oil for Development programme to ensure that the oil finds benefit the broad population groups and to build up an oil administration that prevents the powerful mafia from draining oil revenues. Energy is one of the main priorities of our aid policy. Here we have competence, here we have something to contribute. In addition to the small country of São Tomé, I will mention large parts of West Africa, but also countries such as Sudan and Chad as current partners. Development policy is also part of our security policy. That is why there is a link between our assistance to Afghanistan and our participation in the ISAF force. We contribute to the construction of the country, we provide emergency aid, help with security and try to provide Afghan farmers with alternatives to drug production. This is also how we fight terrorism and heroin imports into Europe. When foreign sex slaves sell their bodies right outside this house, and trafficking now is the source of income. 2 to international Mafia, it is both an important safety issue and a question of development in the countries from which they are recruiting. That obligates us. The target of 1 pst. of the gross national income for assistance is important, but that must not be the only thing we are discussing. To a far greater extent, we need to take a political debate on – and lead to – the device on the content of aid. Just the increase in GNI from one year to another gives us more than $1 billion extra to go with to aid projects. We need to have an opinion on how to use that billion, and what kind of auxiliaries we're channeling the money through. We must concentrate our efforts where we are best, where our expertise is indisputable. We need to know that our efforts make a difference. I agree with the main focus of the Council of State on energy, women, peace/ reconciliation and the environment, in which areas we have competence, as well as developing small industry and trade and using micro-credit, among others. to formalise the informal sector. Norad has put forward a strategy to fully follow the aid money. It's positive. Then I am very happy that the Council of State is notifying a conceptual review, both to get the map to vote with the terrain and to have the right governance tools. The five largest beneficiaries of Norwegian broad assistance are Afghanistan, Mozambique, Tanzania, Sudan and Palestine today. Only two of them are the main countries of cooperation. Sudan does not even have the status of a cooperating country. Here cleanup is needed. I also think we should look at how we can use regional appropriations. They should be directed towards internal development in some regions, e.g. in Africa? My impression today is that regional appropriations are being used in much the same way as our bilateral assistance. Concentration has to be both geographically and in terms of areas in which we are good. That's how we can have a developmental effect out of the means that we're using. In line with the Soria Moria declaration, we must have a main focus on the UN, including local tools for development. Part of the UN reform work has been to set up the UN Resident Coordinator in each country of destination, often under the auspices of the UNDP. This coordination work must be continued and reinforced. It is also important that we have closer cooperation between the United Nations and the World Bank, where the UN is more pre-emptive of the Bank's priorities. I would also like to ask the Council of State to take an initiative in contacting European countries in order to build a unit in front of the World Bank meeting in September, to underline the trend we have seen in the bank over time, a change in the requirements imposed on developing countries by loans or debt cancellation. Finally, when we want more aid money to be channelled through the United Nations system, it is also because we believe that the United Nations Development Programme and other UN agencies are receiving assistance and that they are where others are not.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-23.ana.ud1471e139	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-23.ana.ud1471e142	The Labour Party has had a decisive influence, both within and outside the government, on the design of Norwegian aid policy, a policy that has to a large extent been characterised by naivety and genius, in which money has been uncritically sent without demanding assistance to those who need it. Despite countless reports, press releases and reports from aid workers on corruption in the recipient countries, there has been no criticism of spending even more money. Now we see that the Workers' Party is in government with SV, where the Minister of Development of the Socialist Left Party is going to put a heavy strain on corruption in the recipient countries. Is the Workers' Party comfortable with this conversion of aid policy? And if so, why in all the world has the Workers' Party not previously shown the will to make demands and counter corruption?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-23.ana.ud1471e147	First of all, the government has one policy, and that's what we're all about. We are also united on development policy. I would argue that the Labour Party has pursued a development policy and an aid policy that we have not called for, because that is not right. We have been concerned with good governance for all years. We have demanded that you do not have corruption. We've seen to it that development aid comes out. We have assisted, among other things, by building up national audit and administration, and we have, among other things, Parliament agreed to stop direct budget support for Mugabe in Zimbabwe, simply because it does not get where it is going. That doesn't mean we don't support any groups in Zimbabwe. This means, among other things: that we support popular groups, trade unions, political parties and women's organisations. But we're taking the consequences of Zimbabwe being mismanaged.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-23.ana.ud1471e152	Most of us have probably not been able to avoid recording the enthusiastic description of the Left Wind of Latin America by the Council of State. It's probably Venezuela, Bolivia and Cuba in particular that warms a socialist heart, I think. For all intents and purposes – I agree that we are making happy progress on the South American continent. For me, Brazil and Chile in particular are good examples of balanced and positive regimes from the left side of the region. Can we be sure that the Workers' Party will continue to maintain the poverty focus in aid and not allow itself to be torn off in favour of middle-income countries in some sort of ideological intoxication?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-23.ana.ud1471e159	It is in the priorities outlined by the Council of State and which we end up with, that Africa still has the main focus. It also means that the starting point is poverty reduction and the Millennium Goal. This means, among other things: that we will continue to support Tanzania and Mozambique. We will give priority to Sudan as one of our most important areas for broad assistance. Then it's Latin America. If you look at the government in Chile, which actually has a majority of women, it's important to provide assistance to support gender equality in Chile, which may have an opportunity under this government. I also believe that regimes based on popular movements, which have an intention to create distribution policies and welfare systems, for example. in Bolivia, it is important to support: But these must be a couple of important projects, that you pick out a couple of countries in Latin America. It won't be the main focus. It'll still be in Africa.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-23.ana.ud1471e166	I would essentially like to agree with what the representative Nybakk had. I thought it was a good review of a policy area and a good summary of the composition of the Council of State. I also want to enter this left wind, because I assume, of course, that there are developmental objectives and what is Norwegian development policy, which will be at the heart of it, and not what a colour the regime has in each country. There may be a lot of positive happening in South America now, but it is very important to conclude that the political color of the regime alone is not a criterion. So, happy, the representative Nybakk said the goal of 1 pst. is stuck, but she had a ‘but’ afterwards. I hope that it was not a decrease of 1 percent, but that it was a summation of several other things. I just want to get an assurance that the 1 percent is clear, even without a "but."
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-23.ana.ud1471e175	I can assure you that the 1 percent is fixed. But that means something else. That means that I mean that for too many years we have said that we have a target of so and so high a percentage of gross national income, but we have taken far too little of a discussion about priorities, about what we should focus, and perhaps not least about how we can concentrate our assistance, so that it reaches a much greater extent than what you might otherwise think it does, and that we don't have to spread in width. I think we should have a discussion about which channels we should provide assistance through. Is it the United Nations system that needs the most? Are we going to bet on bilateral assistance, and how much are the volunteer organisations going to have? The Rattsø Committee has now looked at the voluntary organisations. There will be, as far as I know, a vote on 1 June, and then we will have the opportunity to discuss how we will use the voluntary organisations and civil society. This is a debate on content that Norway has far too little. I think it's a very exciting debate. So that was the content of my ‘but’.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-23.ana.ud1471e180	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-23.ana.ud1471e184	When a policy statement is as rich in content as the Minister of Development presented last week, this is a well-used resource use. There is a lot of exciting presentation here, and there are constructive recordings in an area that hasn't been too often characterised by a fundamental debate on long-term impact. Of course, the Progress Party does not agree with everything that was presented, but we feel that there is now a real focus on content, that there is a willingness to be critical of all aspects of development policy, and that one will constantly seek to find out what actually works. In such a debate, we would like to participate and influence. I don't think there is much disagreement between us and the Government about what we want to achieve with development policy. Eliminate poverty, eliminate injustice, promote democracy and human rights – these are the values we stand together on. But in terms of the instruments, there will be disagreement between us, but not all the time, and perhaps we will see that we can approach defining what is good development policy. We don't want to join the goal of 1 pst. in assistance. It is not linked to lack of solidarity, but because we believe this does not reflect a modern development policy, but to a policy that focuses on quantity rather than quality. In relation to our view of economic unhelp, there are more and more people who are expressing the same thing. Kenyan economist James Shikwati said in an interview with Der Spiegel: "For God's sake, stop the unhelp. With the aid money, huge red tape is being financed. The money promotes corruption and inaction. The Africans are trained to become beggars and not independent. In addition, local markets lose much of their function as a result of the unhelp and entrepreneurship that we desperately need to be held down. As absurd as it sounds, u-help is one of the reasons for Africa's problem. If the West stopped this aid, then ordinary Africans would not notice this. Only politicians and bureaucrats would feel the effect." This is also a voice This is also a voice from Africa, probably not representative of everyone, but nevertheless with a message that we have to listen to, take seriously and take over when we evaluate what we're doing. The quotation is pointed, so it may be easy to write it off, but we believe it deserves to be heard. A fundamental challenge for development policy is that it is very easy to fall into temptation to set goals, big goals and good goals. This is probably natural, but we don't think it necessarily leads very well with it. Often, these objectives result from summits and the desire of large organisations to focus and set an agenda that they are unable to follow up. A 1990 UN meeting set a target for the year 2000 for all children to be offered schooling. That target is now deferred until 2015. A previous UN meeting, in 1977, set a deadline for 1990 to obtain public access to water and sewage. That target is also deferred until 2015. No one was held responsible for not keeping these deadlines. The point is that such goals will almost never be achieved, and at least not with the current policy. While the plan economy as a system has largely been thrown at the garbage heaps of history, in the West we are now going to use this as an instrument for the poor world. This is both arrogant and faulty and shows that we have learned little from history. Today’s global development policy is collective in its device, while it must be primarily individualised. We have to help the individual person. We have to take the small steps and build a whole, rather than planning a whole that doesn't bring added value and results to the individual. We believe that the UN stands for such a plan policy, assisted by many sub-organisations, large bureaucracies and well-meaning politicians. Therefore, it is good to record that both the Minister of Development and the Prime Minister want to make demands on the UN. Nevertheless, we are skeptical as to whether this will bring about, and whether we really want to settle the culture with grand plans and countless summits. Norwegian non-governmental organisations receiving money from the development budget are increasingly demanding, and they are being checked and evaluated on all fronts. And that's good and healthy. But how do we evaluate the impact of assistance going through the UN system? Is the Riksrevision there? Do we know how much money goes to bureaucrats and consultants, and how much does it get into the field? The UN is important and no one can replace the role of the United Nations. But as one of the largest donors in the United Nations, it must be allowed not just to make demands, you actually go in and evaluate, if so on your own, where we find it necessary. The Progress Party believes that many non-governmental organisations today are better channels for Norwegian assistance than many UN organisations are, not least because we have a different control and a different proximity to our home actors. We therefore ask that we limit assistance through the UN until we can be sure that this is an effective way of providing assistance. We listened with interest to the signals of debt relief, and here we are responding to the government's policy. This is a field where, in the last period, together with today's government parties, we laid the groundwork for a more offensive policy. The Minister for Development pointed out quite correctly that the issue of illegitimate debt is difficult. But anyway, we can't give up. A country that becomes free should be allowed to shape its own future, without being charged with the sins of former dictatorial regimes. It's clear that border crossing is a problem, and there's a lot of grey zones. But there can be no doubt that lenders have a responsibility when lending money. If a bank lends money to a country, it must be the responsibility of the lender to check that the loan has been taken up by the authorities authorised to do so. And even though it may be historically difficult to agree on such issues, it might be easier to make rules for the future. These should be so simple that those taking up a loan on behalf of a country must be empowered to do so by a elected parliament, and we have today several international institutions that give approval stamps in relation to whether elections have been sufficiently free etc. However, if a bank wants to borrow money, even if it does not have such a mandate, they must be aware that the money can be lost. In this way, we can also prevent banks from continuing to finance regimes that otherwise do not have the right to life. Unfortunately, the lack of legislation on illegitimate debt helps to extend the life of some regimes that could have been eliminated to their advantage. Historically, it is not difficult to find examples of totalitarian states that have survived because banks and institutions in the West have provided funding. I want to challenge the Minister of Development to think outside the traditional framework. Energy has been identified as an area in which Norway may have something extra to contribute. Within both petroleum and hydropower, we have competence that it is right to seek to transfer. But also within other forms of energy, such as: solar panels for Africa, we should play a role. Access to energy is a prerequisite for economic growth. We ourselves have experienced this and experience with today's oil price huge revenues. This obligates. If we look at Africa's challenges in a wider perspective, we know that China today is active, especially because of energy. Energy policy cooperation with China is therefore not only about China, but also about Africa, and not least about the environment. If we can help upgrade China's coal power plant, we will address one of the world's most serious environmental problems and, at the same time, significantly increase China's self-sufficiency of energy, and perhaps – I might stress – have China as a partner in terms of development in Asia, Latin America and Africa. I'd like to admit that this is enough to draw Norway's role far, and the task is greater than what we can do alone. But the challenge is to realize that in today's world, the approach to a better world can go through other channels and using other means than what you traditionally think of. And then there will be a demand for the aid to meet the ODA conditions, not necessarily the most conducive to development. The challenge must be constantly to be willing to think, reconsider old attitudes and seek a policy that is practical, concrete and solution-oriented, a policy that solves real problems for most people. In this article, I have not touched on – and for time’s sake – important issues such as corruption, the role of industry, women’s assistance or health and education. These are themes that we look forward to debating in the future and working with the Minister of Development on as Norway can play an active role. Finally, I will be allowed to comment on a chronicle in the newspaper today, where we are being attacked for our policies in this area. We appreciate getting that opportunity to respond. First of all, that must have crept into a misunderstanding. We are also being attacked for our role in relation to emergency aid. At least I want to take the opportunity from this speaker to point out that we feel that we have had a very offensive role in relation to emergency aid, and hope that that word has crept in there is a mere misunderstanding. The rest of the chronicle is characterized by a completely different belief in whether traditional u-help has an effect, and we also look forward to discussing that further.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-23.ana.ud1471e236	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-23.ana.ud1471e239	I actually want to praise Høglund for holding a very positive and nuanced post, where he has refrained from what has often been the policy of the Progress Party in this area, simply to drive with hoarseness and have a strong rhetoric when it comes to other people's policies. Nevertheless, if one goes into the Progress Party programme, it clearly says that one will terminate the assistance, and if one goes into the alternative budget for the current year, one will see that the assistance has almost halved. That means that the help that we are giving to the poorest of the poor, namely Africa, could not have kept up with the Progress Party system, which would have been very negative for those who are getting this help today. It is also the case that if other countries were to follow the policy of the Progress Party with cutbacks in transfers to the UN, the organisation would not have worked for the future, simply because it was not funded. Then the most important gathering place for the world's nations would have collapsed. My question is: does he not see that the policy of the Progress Party will create a more insecure value and increase the risk of terrorist acts also in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-23.ana.ud1471e250	No, we don't mean that. When we show the effect of assistance, not least in relation to how the UN operates, we believe that there is a need to give strong signals in relation to it. There is a demand from almost most people that the UN be reformed, but no one is willing to press the right buttons to get this done. We think it has to be done. As I pointed out in my post: the UN must be there. The UN must play a role in the world community. But what the United Nations we have today, unfortunately, does not play that role, so we believe this is a need to say clearly. When reference is made to the fact that we are making significant cuts in the aid budget, that is quite correct. I'm going to be allowed to admit that in our alternative state budget we have created a foreign budget at the same time, where we have placed a considerable amount of money to tackle not least health challenges, which we, like the Workers' Party, believe is a serious challenge in Africa. So for the sake of balance, I would like to point out that there is a whole in our view of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-23.ana.ud1471e257	No one should be able to attack the Progress Party for not having been involved in emergency assistance, on the contrary. In the last five years, I think it has been a major theme in my meeting with the Progress Party in this work, while it has been a lot more difficult to hear a debate on the long-term measures. These things are connected. We may not see that at least in these days on the Horn of Africa, among other things. in Kenya, with the drought disaster there. Actually, it is a matter of repeated drought disasters, approximately. every seven-eight years, which requires emergency assistance. But one must also have a look at the causes. It is about distribution and governance, where each country has considerable ownership, but also about what we can contribute from society in terms of the lack of social structure development, infrastructure, etc. Can we expect the Progress Party not only to provide emergency aid again and again, but also to recognise the need to contribute to resolving the root cause?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-23.ana.ud1471e264	Yes, absolutely. We are being attacked for our policies. At the same time, it is not our policy that has been ruled, either in Norway or in the UN or in most donor countries – far from it. There is another policy that we are attacking, and it is the policy that has been shown to give the result that we see drought disasters year after year, with hunger as a result in the same country, of a lack of a good governance set. So when we challenge, we're being criticized for the results of the policy we're criticising. I can't quite see the context: that we are going to take responsibility for drought disasters in countries with poor governance, where the regimes have to take a significant responsibility for their own people now suffering from hunger.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-23.ana.ud1471e269	I too must commend Morten Höglund for many constructive contributions. But what clearly distinguishes us is the analysis that there are power conditions in the world that, among other things. This means that there is a great deal of injustice and poverty in many places and that there are strong collective arrangements that guarantee individual freedoms. One area I think it's exciting that the Progress Party has moved a lot on is the view of illegitimate debt. In that context, I would like to call for the view of the debt as a result of the shipping campaign. I would then challenge the Progress Party to see the link between the environmental effort in developing countries – it is an important area to save the earth for both the poor and the rich – and that, through environmental policy here in Norway, we can do something for the poor of the world. It's a fact that we're one of the countries that uses the most energy and emits a lot of CO2.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-23.ana.ud1471e281	In terms of debt and debt issues, it's a question that we've gradually become more and more concerned with, and that we've been busy for a while. For us, illegal debt is a very serious problem. I referred to in my post that we wished to welcome what was said by the Minister for Development, including the shipping import campaign. We look forward to the government coming back to Stortinget with this, and have nothing more to add. We are prepared to seek to solve the crowd that has arisen there, and we also believe that this is an area where we have a responsibility to be in the driver's seat internationally. In terms of the environment, we would like to connect it to energy and, in an energy policy cooperation with the outside world on a broad basis, we are looking to find the best solutions. I agree with a lot of the analysis that the representative Valle came with, and I do not have much more to add.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-23.ana.ud1471e288	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-23.ana.ud1471e291	From 5th to 15th. May, just before May 17, the annual IPU Spring Conference was in Nairobi, Kenya, and I had the privilege of being one of the participants in the Norwegian delegation. I want to start by doing that, because I think the issues and issues that were raised at this conference, in many ways, gave a cross-section of the issues of development policy as we meet them. The main theme of the main debate was democracy, MR corruption, and that in a country like Kenya, which we have followed quite closely in recent years, from an upsurge and positive mood two years ago, to today where one can say it is a spiral downward with increasing corruption and stagnation in the development of governing organs. On our side, emphasis was placed on stressing that there are some key elements in the development of democracy that have to do with respect for human rights and the rule of law, representative governance and anti-corruption work, and that have to go back in all countries that are committed to democratisation. In addition, one must have respect for local variants of institution building. I think this gives a good impression to say that on our side we are very concerned about the UN Convention on Anti-corruption, which is being treated in the Storting these days – a good contribution to getting something further on that work. In the IPU, we have three permanent committees dealing with the issue of resolutions during the week. The first treated violence against women. The other treated environmental liabilities also in the context of development. And it gives me an idea to say that I am very pleased that one has come so far with the environmental action plan, which was mentioned in the aid message last year. We look forward to a planned evaluation of the impact of the plan when it is launched. The third committee examined small arms, in particular on the basis of a local safety aspect. There is no doubt that, for example: in North Kenya, small arms are now so widespread that people feel insecurity in everyday life and actually move away. This also has to do with stability and social development and is an absolutely relevant theme as a basis for development. Every year, the IPU has an urgent theme adopted at the meeting, where the Arab countries this year tried to get the Muhammed drawings, but it ended up with an urgent resolution on drought and hunger on the Horn of Africa, and I have already commented in a reply on the link between short-term relief and long-term action. I also had the opportunity to take part in a smaller delegation under the auspices of UNICEF to health institutions in the drought-capped area at the border of Somalia. The trip referred to over-measures of the vulnerability of children to both drought and hunger in order to be exposed to all the world’s infections and diseases. During the conference there was also a panel on AIDS/Hiv, in particular aimed at children, young people and pregnant women. It is a cross-thinking that pregnant women in the West get full treatment against the virus, resulting in less than 1 pst. of the children are HIV-infected when they are born. In Africa, on the other hand, there is endose treatment, in which case 35–50 pst. of the children infected when they are born. That, of course, gives the kind of comments that one heard under the panel as well, and that I can understand: Is it so that a newborn life is worth less in Africa? It's in the wake of HIV infection countries in Africa where actually 30 pst. by the population are orphans. One gets no solution to children's problems without better conditions for women also in general, and we know the keywords: equality, equality, work against violence, inheritance, property rights and social rights. Right-wing welcome this opportunity to discuss Norwegian development policies provided by the full and sound presentation of the Council of State, with many new input. During our country meeting, we went in to maintain the high level of Norwegian aid. The right considers that assistance must be an international extension of our domestic policies and a manifestation of our key values: opportunities for all — including developing countries; a new chance of success — also for the world's poor. While we want to help the unemployed into working life at home, we want to better integrate developing countries into global trade and thus help them to cope with themselves. And in the same way as in Norwegian policy, the aid should meet exactly the same criteria for accountability, reprehensibility and achievement as our domestic policy. It's just these criteria we're going to measure the government's development policy by. And just as in our school policy, where the evaluation of students is absolutely essential to see if they are benefiting from education, we need to evaluate the assistance and governments in the recipient countries and ourselves as donors. The main impression of the Council of State presentation is a little bit divided. I really miss the overall poverty focus and also the relation to the Millennium Goals, but I see that the message of assistance, as it was widely agreed on last year, is at the bottom. But I have to agree for once with the cooperation organisation RORG, who writes in his news release on 18 May: «Tross election promises for a new course, the presentation was more marked by a shocking course, although Solheim has also taken some new steps and announced a number of new initiatives.» And they refer to the joint comments of today’s three government parties in the suspension of the last year’s aid message, where they considered that ‘there is no full consensus on the poverty analysis’, and that there is a lack of ‘an analysis of the new security policy challenges that are increasingly relevant to development assistance and poverty reduction and an analysis of the underlying causes of poverty. In the light of these challenges, the role of the United Nations should have been further discussed». Some such new course is not easy to read out from the Council's presentation. I'm not going to go into the individual sub-themes, which are many and interesting, but let me say that we look forward to the treatment of the selection settings about the volunteer organisations. It reminds me that after Christmas we had a question in the Questionnaire on the Red Cross report on the tsunami disaster and the lack of publicity about the reporting. Now I see that at the end of March, the Red Cross has made a report on the topic, and it could be interesting to know if the Council of State is now satisfied with the report that is available. In the light of the positive considerations of the Council of State on the importance of free trade, I must also say that we now expect the Government to invite several developing countries into the system of duty-free exports to Norway. Then I have to repeat, as we have done several times before from this pulpit, that the solidarity fee for air traffic is a fundamental contradiction. First of all, we think it is urgent to ensure that the UN Member States fulfil their commitments of 0.7 pst. by GNI as a contribution to the organisation, coupled with a better evaluation of the impact, which was also attended by the representative Høglund. Just evaluation has been at the heart of the last four years. I'm glad the Council of State places so much emphasis on it. I think there is a need for both methodological development, a more planned implementation, prospectively, when entering new projects, and better performance target definition is required, so that an evaluation can be better measured in relation to what you wanted. It also requires better transparency, confronting those who don't live up to expectations, with the consequences. This is because we are responsible to taxpayers, but also because we are extremely responsible to the needy recipients who should have enjoyed the funds that go in the pockets of others. I have become more concerned the longer I have worked with this matter. I've been doing this for five years now. I sometimes meet up with some attitudes, including: in Kenya now two weeks ago, where one can get the impression that the fact that many lives are lost in hunger, disease, AIDS, war and conflict should mean that society values each life lower than we do, for example. do in our societies in the West. We must never fall for the temptation to go in such a mental death trap. I saw examples in northeast Kenya of how high a treasure the individual newborn life, in the midst of a disaster, where residents and children die in heaps. It gave a reflection on the danger by taking our own welfare and abundance for granted, and the even greater danger of taking for granted that others actually have it worse than us. But the worst thing is if we gradually slip into a notion that we are worth more than they are, as individuals. Such a mood swing will be a disaster. I am glad that in the Stortinget I have generally met with different attitudes.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-23.ana.ud1471e334	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-23.ana.ud1471e338	Now I have been listening to the representative of Vallersnes, and basically his comments stress that the Right came into the aid fold during the previous period. Now, Vallersnes was also in the Foreign Affairs Committee during that period. I think it is very positive that the breadth of development policy has never been greater in the Great Britain. I think it is important that we have a strong course in aid policy and development policy. That doesn't mean we agree on everything. Here the representative stressed that he was in favour of air fares. There are shades in the view of the role of the UN in the world society, both in creating a world order and in channelling aid. Nevertheless, the width is large. I have a question for Vallersnes. I perceived it so that the Young Right Leader at the Right Country Meeting came with a warning to the Mother Party. He wanted the Right not to go back to the unprincipled attitude of the 1990s towards aid policy, and felt that development policy was actually one of the most important issues of a party. Can Vallersnes confirm this?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-23.ana.ud1471e345	I can reassure the representative Nybakk. It is now a year since I was here as rapporteur for the aid notification. What we carried in the pen then is highly representative of the Right-wing attitude to the aid policy, and it stands by it. We can disagree on instruments. Nybakk himself mentioned the flight fee. But I think that the overall objectives are quite common. There's no change in Right's main view of this from last year to this year. But, as we experience in all political parties, it may also be good to get tip formulations from the youth organization. Most of us experience that. But I do not experience any fundamental disagreement between the leader of Young Right and what we stand for in our work over several years in the Foreign Affairs Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-23.ana.ud1471e350	The representative of Vallersnes referred in his speech to the RORG's comment on the Minister for Development's statement that this was more of a bad course than a new course. I almost felt that the representative Vallersnes made RORG's comments to her. In any case, he should be given the opportunity to answer that question. Is that what Right wants – a new course? And in this case, what new course of development policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-23.ana.ud1471e355	The assistance messages that have been up to treatment are approx. Every 8–9 years, the main framework for development policy has largely been laid around the next few years. That's how I felt last year. It was a great commitment from all the parties. One added some main lines of work further. This has been a past experience through various governments, and I now experience that too. But, of course, things need to be further developed. And there are a number of things that can be improved and further developed. But I can see, as RORG, that some of the basic elements of last year's aid notification, for which there was quite a political consensus, perhaps especially with the exception of the Progress Party, are still there. So I very much agree with RORG's description.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-23.ana.ud1471e360	I took note of the last one. I just want to say that RORG is also concerned with the power conditions in the world as they reflect in trade, but now leave it. I very much agree with Vallersnes that the basis for all human rights is that all people are equally worth it. But then I want to get to grips with what's happening in Latin America. Because after the presentation we could read on Høyre's website that Erna Solberg believes that Norway is not worthy of ideological support for authoritarian regimes in Latin America. And then I'd like the Right to elaborate on it more. Are those countries that have elected presidents and governments as a result of mobilization from the trade union movement, from social movements with demands for more justice and as a protest against the dominance of the United States, which is authoritarian? Is more national governance of natural resources required that is authoritarian? Is it that several countries have now merged into a trade agreement that ensures more trade between these countries, as a counterbalance to the dominance of the United States, which is authoritarian?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-23.ana.ud1471e367	First, quite briefly, about RORG. It is true that it is not often I have agreed with them over the past few years, but I have been in many debates with them. And in terms of the conditions of power in the world and their significance in this context, we have different views. But just in their description of this statement we got from the Council of State, I think they're quite right. With regard to the opinion of the Right Leader on the regimes in Latin America, I said in an earlier change of words today that we think the way it is done in Brazil and Chile is very balanced and positive. There are also left-wing regimes that represent significant progress in their region as we think is great. With regard to the countries that the representative Valle is now thinking about, Bolivia, Venezuela and Cuba, it is especially from our experience with Cuba that the reflections are coming. And it's not that long since we had a case where we thought that the Norwegian government bowed down to pressure from the regime and then for the future would not invite the opposition, for example. to our national day celebration in Havana – a typical example of pressure from an authoritarian government that I think the Norwegian government is flat on.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-23.ana.ud1471e376	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-23.ana.ud1471e379	I would like to thank the Minister of Development for a statement showing that the Government has ambitions in the field of development. The context is to be seen both in foreign policy and in development policy, but also in the area of aid, debt cancellation, including debt arising from the shipping campaign and the follow-up to the Soria Moria Declaration on illegitimate debt, in the area of raising up and raising the environment, women and equality as a field of activity, and in the area of women's reproductive rights, including the right to safe abortion. I fully agree with the Minister for Development that the world society can give the world's poorest a decent life, eradicate poverty, if we want. Mahatma Gandhi once said: This world is rich enough to fill people's needs, but too poor to meet people's greed. We have poverty in the world because resources are so unequally distributed, and that's because power is so unfairly distributed. For example, it costs $20 billion per year. years to provide all people with enough food, clean water and primary school. $20 billion is 3 pst. of the military expenditure of the rich world. Poverty can be abolished if we do something about power conditions in the world, so that they become fairer. Development policies focus on the seventh and final distribution of power and resources between countries and groups of people, between women and men, between those who own capital and those who have to sell their labour force. Neoliberal policies that have shifted power from people to the closed-end governance of the largest transnational companies, with the World Bank, the IMF and, in part, the WTO as important actors, have led to the difference in gross domestic product per capita. The population of the 20 richest and 20 poorest countries has doubled in the last 40 years. Experience and research clearly show that the World Bank and the IMF have pushed forward a neoliberal privatisation and deregulation policy for which the poorest – and that is what women – have paid the price. Among other things, because the public sector has been cut down in many countries, women’s social rights have been weakened or lost. I am therefore pleased that the Minister for Development is so clear that privatisation should not be a requirement for debt cancellation or for the payment of loans. The Soria Moria Declaration is clear that Norway should not give money to programmes which require privatisation and liberalisation. We are going to be a critical partner to the World Bank, says the Minister for Development, a partner who responds if the World Bank continues to press ahead with privatisation of, for example. water resources. Oxfam has just visited Norway with a call to put itself at the head of those countries that can form an alliance to eliminate privatisation requirements from the World Bank’s conditionality requirements. This is a requirement that is important to the world's poorest and to anyone who needs a strong state that can re-distribute for the benefit of the poor. From a development point of view, we must also look at the policy of the IMF. The IMF's idea is that countries need to tighten their lifeline in the short and medium term, before they can enjoy the fruits of their economic growth. Jeffrey Sachs, the head of the United Nations Millennium Goal, says to that strategy: ‘Poor countries cannot afford to wait until they are rich until they can invest in their population.’ For example, in 2002, Uganda declined to 52 million. dollars in development funds for HIV/AIDS control. The refusal came despite the fact that AIDS is the cause of death. one for those aged 15 to 49 years. The reason was that the contribution would create inflation above the level required by the IMF, and Uganda feared the punishment. It must be the UN and the countries' seas that must be the precursors of national poverty strategies, not the IMF and the World Bank. But then we know that power is not equally distributed in each country. In order for the poverty reduction work, the PRSPs and the work on the Millennium Goals to really benefit the poor, vulnerable groups, they must be given power – their voices must be heard. That is why it is important to support women's networks, the trade union movement and the rest of civil society that can give power and support to the poorest in this work. What characterises those countries that have the fairest distribution and the most democratic regime, for example. the Nordic, is a strong civil sector and a strong trade union movement that has been working out collective rights. The international trade movement has played a central role in building democratic welfare societies with protection against exploitation and underpayment, child labour and life-threatening working conditions. The free international professional association, the world's largest professional association, believes that increasing pressure on professional rights is largely due to international competition. The competitive advantage of powerholders in many developing countries is slave contracts, in particular for women and children, low wages, poor working conditions or extensive tax freedom, which means impaired public resources. The UN Labour Organisation, the ILO, has adopted a number of basic conventions on the basic rules to be applied in the labour market. They break daily, and the ILO does not have the power to respond to violations. Today, there are better international rules for the protection of trade, goods and services than of the people who produce goods and services. I am therefore pleased that Norway has underlined that labour rights belong to the WTO. Norway is also working in the UN to make ILO’s ‘Agenda for decent work’ an integral part of the poverty strategy of developing countries, as set out in an article by the Minister for Development and the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Fair trade is one of several prerequisites for countries, especially in Africa, to be lifted out of poverty. Fair trade means giving developing countries access to the rich country markets. At the same time, they need to be able to maintain a political space to protect business and resources in a build-up phase, as Norway did when we were a poor nation, and such Asian countries, as for example. South Korea, have done. It is important that we have rules for world trade that give not the strongest more power and justice but promote the interests of the world's poor. The Doha Round should be such a development round, but unfortunately there are many signs that it has not been so. Among other things, Oxfam, who has been a moderate player in the WTO context, has published a report saying that a new agreement is needed, but that the requirements of the negotiations are now more damaging than those of developing countries. This report must provide a basis for further work by Norway. So on to an important point in the presentation, more important than it might seem in the first instance, that a public body should be set up to look at Norwegian policy in its full scope — including trade policy, energy and industrial policy — and its implications for developing countries. With that, we have the opportunity to see relationships – which have been occupied by several people – and to take a holistic approach. In this work, it is important to draw knowledge from a wide range of professionals and actors, not least representatives of knowledge institutions and networks in the south. It is important to ensure that there is a wide public debate here at home, and therefore I believe that a big message needs to be considered. In addition, SV has called for more regularity than we have had at present, to hold development debates in the United Kingdom in order to launch the public debate, which is incredibly important. The Minister for Development has explained that the Government will take additional responsibility for the areas of women and equality, peace and reconciliation, the environment and energy. Through the recent interpellation debate, it turned out that there is a great deal of commitment in this room for women and equality. It is an area for which Norway needs to take additional responsibility in its efforts to strengthen the UN – reforming the UN. The UN Secretary-General has stated that strengthening the position of girls and women is the best way to make progress for the poor of the world. In the United Nations, Norway must support the dual strategy that we are in favour of in other contexts, emphasising the women’s perspective in all fields and focusing on specific women’s and gender equality measures. The UN reform work is therefore also about strengthening the entities involved in women’s actions, such as women’s organisations. UNIFEM and INSTRAW, reorganise, if necessary, to obtain a maritime organisation that has the strength to give the world's women a voice. Women must not be reformed in the reform process. It is a challenge that I will present to the Prime Minister – I assume the Minister for Development will pass it on – and I am sure that it is a challenge that he accepts.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-23.ana.ud1471e414	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-23.ana.ud1471e417	I agree with Mr Valle that the Minister for Development's presentation was very good. The Socialist Left Party has certainly been the party in this house that has been most eager to send money to developing countries without making demands on the recipient countries, but now we see that the SV Minister for Development will have more structured and effective development assistance, and he will also severely reduce corruption in the recipient countries. Does this total turnaround mean that SV now sees that previous actions have not worked? And is there agreement in the SV on this reverse operation, or can a expected portion of the population of SV in the lawn in front of Stortinget also in this case?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-23.ana.ud1471e424	This isn't a reverse operation at all. Corruption is a theme SV has been busy for a long time. Not least, the President may be able to stress it, given the work we had on the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs in the previous period. Corruption is an important obstacle to eradicating poverty. But what's important to see is that corruption not only happens randomly, it also happens as a result of power relationships in individual countries. There's actually some people who see themselves profited from that it's corruption. We have to look at the strategies that allow us to eradicate corruption, both at home and in developing countries. In other words, we need to look at corporate social responsibility when they invest in developing countries. We need to build national audit, we need to build civil society as a counterbalance, and we need to support free media, which can be a voice in the fight against corruption.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-23.ana.ud1471e434	Find Martin Vallersnes, line up. The President would also point out that he will resist the temptation and request to take part in the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-23.ana.ud1471e439	I was unfortunately on my way home from Kenya when the Council of State gave its statement, but I have been given access to the document since then and read among other things. that we know what is needed to overcome poverty. There is a need for peace, a strong and well-functioning state that benefits fairly, an open and market-based economy, a strong commitment to education and the mobilisation of resources through investment and assistance. And besides, there is a part about the value of free trade and about the WTO round that is going on. I experience this as a line break from SV's side, and I think it's a pleasure. Can the representative, Valle, confirm that one here has now realised that one must take the whole thing into account, and that factors such as market economy and free trade are essential ingredients in such an overall approach?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-23.ana.ud1471e446	It is clear that trade is one of the important measures to eradicate poverty in the world. That is why we want more trade, especially for developing countries to have more access to the markets of the rich countries. But that's not what happens. The world’s power situation is such that the rich countries are now pushing for more access to developing countries. The rich world does not take inwards that even developing countries must have political space to provide services, to protect business in a build-up phase. We need to ensure that the situation of power is such that trade is fair, so that developing countries can take advantage of the same opportunities to build up and to safeguard their business and services at this construction stage. These include: these WTO negotiations are about, and are the basis for Oxfam to believe that now a break has to be made and see if this really serves the development.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-23.ana.ud1471e451	First, I'd like to agree wholeheartedly with one of the postulates that the representative Valle had in his post, that the women don't have to be reformed. That would be a tragedy. So to the question. In an interesting post, there was a continuous skeptical attitude to the World Bank and the IMF. In some areas, there have been reasons to have such a hold, but at the same time, for example. With Norway's efforts, there were significant changes. I have recorded that when the Minister of Development talks about the World Bank's efforts in Sri Lanka, he is mostly positive. The Foreign Affairs Committee met yesterday with a part of the World Bank in respect of measures in Africa. Is there not reason to say that the developments in the World Bank are actually hopeful, and that it is important for Norway to move forward in order to get progress in the right direction?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-23.ana.ud1471e458	Well, it's hopeful, and what's hopeful is that the World Bank is calling for more social justice and equality. But what the Minister for Development stressed is that Norway must be a watchdog, a critical interlocutor in relation to the World Bank, and ensure that practices follow up words. It's so that they're like, for example, is entitled to water as a human right, can report that the World Bank is still demanding the privatisation of water resources around the world. Then the representative is probably aware that I also took the trip to the IMF. The IMF thinks I have a longer way to go. It also shows the tendency to rebel against the IMF that exists in many developing countries, including the United States. the request from Kenya to ignore what the IMF requires.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-23.ana.ud1471e465	This means that the cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-23.ana.ud1471e468	My voice is not exactly what it is today, but it may well be an advantage for the assembly. I hope it goes well. I want to basically bring up what the Minister for Development said in relation to the fact that, as a first-generation generation, we actually have the possibility of eradicating poverty in the world, if we want enough. I found the whole situation in relief, and that's what must be the starting point for our work. It makes a lot of demands on us, but it also gives us great potential, with the situation that Norway is in. So it's an amazingly good backtrace that the Minister of Development drew in relation to the fact that with a tragic backtrace we actually have the opportunity to change it to be something positive. But then we have to do enough. For the Christian People's Party, development policy is a matter of heart, a pillar of our struggle for human dignity and international justice. As a result, development policy was reformed and strengthened under the Bondevik regimes. Norway must not only defend the urban space in development aid; we must still be a driver for increased social benefits, better quality, for example. in the fight against poverty, and a more holistic foreign policy. Overall, Development Minister Solheim confirmed the main pillars of development policy. He's said it like this: ‘The Bondevik government made a good effort. We will build on this." I think it would be important to build on the bearing broad lines of the broad alliance that we have created for development policy. These two pillars are needed to ensure the continuity of a long-term project as development cooperation is. At the same time, I look forward to the signals given by the Minister of Development on further development and renewal. I'm essentially positive with these signals. Several of them also involve follow-up of initiatives previously supported by the Christian People's Party. Let me highlight a few of these initiatives. It is a matter of a more holistic foreign policy. The other relates specifically to the cancellation of foreign debt. I would like to welcome health for a public selection to look at the implications for developing countries of Norwegian policy its full scope — including trade, trade, energy, agriculture and culture. The Christian People's Party has long worked to create a more holistic Norwegian development policy. It is not the aid alone that affects the development of the developing countries. It is important in the context of policy. There was also some of the core of the development message that Hilde Frafjord Johnson presented a few years ago. Our measures for increasing trade, for debt forgiveness and for seeing development cooperation in the context of human rights work are the expression of this recognition. What could be the problem of policy coordination in different sectors is that our secret interests and sectors are very heavy compared to the foreign interests, and especially the interests of the very poorest. Early attempts at coordination have partly resulted in development policy being adapted to our own interests and not based on our own premises. This is what we think, among other things. from the famous maritime sports campaign in the late 1970s. The after-sales after the wear we still wear. I want to commend the Council of State for the answer he gave me in the Question Time a while ago about this. I record what he has said publicly also afterwards. I see him saying that he wants to come back and see if it is going to get the idea of ‘illegal debt’ or not. I want to challenge the Council of States to actually give it the name ‘illegal debt’. It will be a very important matter for a very large number of developing countries in relation to the fight they face just when it applies. I understand that there might be reason to say that we must first have the definitions that we've asked for, but I'll still say, "Let's do this first thing for our own door." I think the council has begun well, I hope he keeps going as well. The second pitfall of coordination can lead to the rotation of cooperation from what the poorest in the developing world needs most, to profitable economic cooperation within the modern sector in the developing world. Therefore, there are two things I ask the Council of State to guarantee me that he is sticking to the new initiative. This is where the poverty focus and common policies are at stake. I strongly support the initiative. I could also have mentioned many advantages of the initiative, but I chose to talk about some pitfalls that lie here, because it is necessary to include in the distribution work that is going to take place. It's another aspect that I want to remember. The selection shall look at Norwegian policy in the context. It shall have a national dimension. It's important, but not enough alone. Some of what I hope the new Council of State can follow up on former Development Council Hilde Frafjord Johnson, is possible to be on the ball in relation to global processes related to trade, debt, investment – i.e. the global framework, the big system issues. In fact, I miss this perspective in the full distribution of the Council of State. I would like to challenge the Council of State to say something more about this. How does the Council of State think Norway can now actually do something to help the poorest developing countries within the framework of the WTO's locked global trade negotiations? The second initiative I would like to commend is the promise of a separate deposit proposition on the follow-up to G8 countries' debt cancellation initiative from summer last year. As you know, the G8 initiative has been followed up by the International Monetary Fund, the World Bank and the African Bank. This is a global responsibility, and it's high time the government made suggestions on how we, for our part, will follow up the debt cancellation initiative. Governments believe that Norway has ordered two studies of illegitimate debt. It is good that the Council of State is now involved in the completion of these studies. It's interesting to see what the World Bank and UNCTAD can say about illegitimate debt. It's no less interesting to see what the Government will make concrete suggestions about. It has the Government itself full control over it. During the central government, a large and important step was taken through the debt plan. He gave permission to cancel the debt for several billion kroner, without the aid budget being charged. Part of the debt from the old shipping campaign is covered by this first debt plan. Now we have to complete the work, and the prescription is actually simple: the debt must be deleted, and this must not be charged to the aid budget. We are pleased with the positive signals so far, and I would like to ask the State Council, Solheim, if he can say anything more about when the proposals come. That's a lot we're dealing with. The distribution of development policy has many promising verbal signals. But it is in practice that we have to judge the policy. So far there's a couple of areas I've mentioned before, and I repeat: in practice, a wrong road has two places. One is the way to Africa, and the other is the way to volunteer organizations. Both of them got cut off, and I hope this won't be the case in the future budget. We look forward with excitement to the first budget that in general has been developed by the Council of State of Solheim itself. I would like to mention an initiative I have taken to the Council of State, Solheim, that when we see that we are thinking even more about oil prices, and the poorest people are bleeding as much as they do, we are going to create a private fund, a regulatory fund, which will come into operation when the oil price rises above a special level. So far, the Council of State has also responded positively to it, and I look forward with excitement to the State budget and in what way the Council of State will take it further. In a full statement, there's probably a couple of things I'm missing. It's a debt of tuberculosis, which is an international challenge about as big as HIV/AIDS. I can name an organisation like LHL, which is good at it and has a lot of expertise in this area. He must not be forgotten from our side. Similarly, children and young people, who are the majority of the population of poor countries, are to a small extent mentioned in the distribution. I understand that it's not possible to have everything, but it's important that they don't fall out.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-23.ana.ud1471e505	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-23.ana.ud1471e508	Antiabort work has taken place since George Bush came to power in the United States. This is also reflected in US aid policies, including: by the fact that organisations receiving US aid are unable to carry out abortions or refer women to other places where abortions are carried out, cannot inform them of the possibilities of abortion, nor can they argue for women's right to abortion. In addition, the United States has stopped providing assistance to several organisations that work with family planning and reproductive health, including the United States of America. The UN Population Fund. This is a mockery, it's a crime, it's a war against women, and especially against women in the poorest part of the world. In addition to other countries, the government has signalled that we should go in with increased support where the United States cuts, and we should provide assistance to the Global Fund for Safe Abortion, which aims to provide support for measures that have lost funds as a result of anti-absorptions from other countries, for example. U.S.A. Does the Christian People's Party distance itself from this fundamentalist war against women, or does the Christian People's Party believe that removing support for the UN Population Fund is a constructive way of fulfilling the UN's Millennium Goals?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-23.ana.ud1471e515	The Bondevik government does not remove supported UN Population Fund. But there is reason to say that the UN as an organisation does not promote abortion as a solution. The Christian People's Party (Christian People's Party) stands for a policy in Norway with respect for the unborn life and the born life, and is thus for a stronger legal protection for the unborn life. We have the same position internationally. At the same time, there is reason to say that in the work of women's reproductive health there is a need for a health care system that says something about proper health centres, proper prevention guidance and proper follow-up of women in general. But that Norway should become a malignant for free abortion, we don't think it's a good idea. One must respect the laws of each country in this way.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-23.ana.ud1471e522	First, I'd like to praise you for a very good post with a lot of constructive input – there was a lot of content. For the sake of the voice of the representative, Jon Lilletun, I will try to put a yes-no question. The Christian People's Party has, as the representative was present, been concerned with aid and development for a very long time, and has perhaps been one of the parties in Norway that has led that tab the highest. Africa, and in particular southern Africa, has been the most concentrated area, both with funds and with other objectives. Is the representative satisfied with what we see in southern Africa after so many years of assistance?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-23.ana.ud1471e530	The answer may be no, but it cannot be alone as a no. The situation would have been dramatically worse if we hadn't had the development aid for southern Africa. Both the representative Høglund, I believe, and I have visited a number of actions that are driven both by public bodies, by the UN and by church organizations, and that every day save lives, give people schooling and provide people with health services. It has its value anyway. There is no doubt that we have done too little – it has increased significantly in the last period, but we have done too little when it is due to enable the individual state to exercise good governance, including, among other things. anti-corruption work as an essential part.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-23.ana.ud1471e535	I also think the representative Lilletun was in many interesting aspects. Among other things – if I heard correctly – he has begun to look at the WTO in a power context, and see if it really helps the developing countries. I think that's very interesting, if that's right. I didn't really intend to take a line on the representative Lilletun, but I have to be allowed to go on with what the representative Anette Trettebergstien was about when it was about reproductive health. For reproductive health, one of the most common causes of death and disease is among women and young girls in developing countries. Mother mortality has not fallen in the last 20 years, despite several decisions. Unsafe abortions are a serious obstacle to achieving the Millennium Goals to reduce maternal mortality by 2015. I am pleased that the representative underlined the need for assembly, but is it not important that Norway assumes a leading role in the fight for reproductive rights, including the right to safe abortions?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-23.ana.ud1471e544	I think I need more than one minute to give an adequate answer, and I would like to meet the representative Valle in relation to it once. It's quite clearly necessary for us to put the abortion question into the context in which we put it, where we think it's not just a question of woman, but also a question about the fetus and her fetus dishes. It is quite obvious – that is exactly what the representative Valle says – that there is a tragedy about the situation of too many mothers in this area. Difor is enormously dilemmad, but the Christian People's Party is forced to acknowledge its fundamental view of abortion also in relation to this. And then one has to look for solutions that can relieve the distress that the representative Valle quite correctly described.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-23.ana.ud1471e551	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-23.ana.ud1471e554	The difference between poor and rich is one of the greatest – if not the greatest – challenges we face in today's world, and we, with our resources, actually have great opportunities to do something about this challenge. The Central Party is therefore pleased with the ambitious objectives of the Development Minister and the Government for Norwegian development policy, and I would like to thank the Minister for a good and thorough presentation. In order to achieve democracy, and also peace, poverty must be combated. Today, large parts of the poor world are being exploited by giant multinationals that provide us – some of us who are at least rich – with cheap products, but in many cases this has been at the expense of the environment, with the exploitation of labour and a sustained pressure to get low production costs. The Central Party believes that here we must use our own voice to be the partner of the poor countries up against gigantic power blocks, such as the EU and the United States. We must fight to ensure that agricultural workers, the environment and poor farmers are taken into account in WTO negotiations, and not a small owner who, with a highly industrialised operating system, is depleting resources in parts of the world. I am pleased that the Minister for Development so clearly signals that aid and development policy are part of Norway's overall foreign policy. We need to see the link between trade policy, security policy, poverty reduction and the environment. The centre party believes that it is essential in this work that we focus on a stronger, more modernised and more democratic UN as an important instrument in this process. Norway has an important role in the UN per year. Today, and we have to use that role to drive a stronger UN. We need strong global cooperation through the UN to solve common challenges, including meeting the Millennium Goals. In this work we must bring the United Nations political body, the United Nations aid organisations and development programmes closer together. And we're going to demand how the money we give is used. That is why we must also work to combat corruption – which several speakers before me have been involved – and have zero tolerance for this everywhere Norway participates. Norway has a major obligation to achieve the Millennium Goals in terms of health, disease control, education and the environment. In order to achieve these objectives, it is important that Norway is also a driver for promoting gender equality and bets on women, as not least women are often the key to producing results in those areas. A new, comprehensive and strengthened policy for Africa must have the main focus. For the center party part, this is a continent we've long been engaged to. Although not everything goes wrong in Africa – on the contrary, we can record positive developments on the democracy side, we have fewer territorial conflicts, and we see that we are making progress in the health sector – we just have to recognise that the challenges are in line. Sudan and Darfur will be important areas in the future. I cannot hide the fact that with some wonder I record that someone has suggested that we should not have participation in Sudan and in Darfur. The arguments have been that this is a risk area, especially in the case of disease, but also because of the extremely unclear internal conditions. I think we have to admit that much of our aid and peace activity poses risks, but with the structure and security we have built around our field workers and soldiers, Darfur should not be regarded as a more difficult area than in many similar operations we have participated in. As a significant aid country under the auspices of the United Nations, it is important that we are in place to address humanitarian emergencies. But when we're in this area, we've been told that there's a menacing catastrophe on the Horn of Africa – a disaster we can't forget at all. So we have to deal with both acute disasters and developing a new policy for the entire African continent. In order to contribute to a more fair and peaceful world, we must support the construction of democracy. Self-held and autonomous countries are the very basis for achieving these objectives. Therefore, we will work to support grassroots movements and build on cooperation with organisations, parties and movements that are working for democratic development – it is in countries east of us, in Latin America or in other parts of the world. The Central Party believes that developing countries themselves must come and take responsibility for their own development. Priority must be given to cooperation on measures to strengthen good and democratic governance, functioning institutions and good governance. In this work it is among other things. important to continue to develop further the work done by the Norwegian Centre for Democracy Support. Norway also has a strong and important involvement in Asia. The presence in Afghanistan must continue as long as Norwegian forces are needed. At the same time, the tasks are in line in Sri Lanka and Nepal, to mention some areas. On the other hand, new countries are also emerging as trading partners and where Norwegian business interests are present. I record that the Minister of Assistance expressed hope for a new economic axis between China, India and Brazil. I assume he has a very long-term perspective. For it must be a prerequisite that China has taken many, important steps in the development of democracy and human rights in its own country, before we see that that axis must be of particular importance. This presents us with new challenges in the face of economic and industrial cooperation countries. We need to be clear about what we cannot accept, and take every opportunity and opportunity to address violations of fundamental rights in individual countries. Development policies and assistance are important, exciting and challenging policy areas. We will take seriously that Norway has not always acted as well in relation to how we have behaved in the developing countries with which we have cooperated. An example of this is, as others have been involved, the debt created as a result of the shipping campaign, which the Minister of Development also mentioned in his statement. This just makes the need for a more comprehensive policy visible, and the Central Party is pleased with the willingness of the Government to address these significant challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-23.ana.ud1471e593	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-23.ana.ud1471e596	The representative spoke in his speech warmly for Norwegian participation in Sudan, in Darfur, also military, if I understood the representative correctly. At the same time, this government has not been interested in extending our involvement in e.g. Iraq. There are many conflicts going on around the world, there are many problem areas. We participate somewhere, we don't participate elsewhere. Does the representative agree with the undersigned and the Progress Party that it has not been given Norway to participate at any place? It is a problem to make military resources available. It is not an inexhaustible resource, and we must therefore make certain choices.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-23.ana.ud1471e601	I agree that priority must be given. In this case, we've done it, I think. Our commitment to Iraq was slowed down. We're not going to go into the underlying cause. We are aware that important resources are being seized, but the humanitarian situation in Darfur is, in our opinion, such that we found it important to prioritize this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-23.ana.ud1471e606	I want to return to the positive reference made by the Council of State to the importance of global trade and the importance of market forces in the fight against poverty. As I said in my post, there is a slight expectation from us about the government's initiative to invite more developing countries than today to export duty-free to Norway. The question is then: will the Central Party also work for more developing countries to export duty-free to Norway, i.e. not just the poorest, but a larger group of developing countries?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-23.ana.ud1471e613	In this context, we have stressed that the poorest may be the ones with the greatest challenges, and that is where we can best help. That is why we have placed great emphasis on the need for the MUL countries to export to Norway. But we recognize that they have certain problems, logistically and in other areas, with getting this done. But I think we should first of all be open to imports from just these countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-23.ana.ud1471e619	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-23.ana.ud1471e622	The left noted that Minister of Development Erik Solheim, in the context of his statement on development policy, stated that the Bondevik II government had made good efforts in this area and that the Government would build on it. This seems to confirm that St.meld. No 35 for 2003-2004, presented by Bondevik II, with a focus on poverty reduction and the UN’s Millennium Goals, remains the basis for Norwegian development policy. The main impression from the statement is a bad course. From this point of view, the Government seems to be inclined to mark its own development policy through a number of new approaches. The left will point in particular to the management tools for the assistance. The Minister of Development announced that the Government would come back to the Stortinget with a concrete proposal to that effect. The left considers that more resources should be allocated to a more systematic and ongoing reporting of results, evaluation and quality assurance of Norwegian assistance. The reporting of results should be clear and unambiguous, easily understandable and accessible to all. In this way, it will be possible to better learn from experience, make necessary corrections, and help to improve the quality of assistance. In view of this, the Left Government’s work on establishing a Banking Consultation Forum with Norwegian non-governmental organisations is considered to be a step in the right direction. The same applies to the establishment of a public body to look at the impact on developing countries of Norwegian policies in their full scope, including trade, transport, energy, agriculture and culture. The left also sees the need to link foreign policy and development policy more closely. Norwegian assistance and emergency aid should not be deterred from the political realities prevailing on the ground in cooperation countries. In our opinion, it is of great importance to clarify the content of the term ‘good governance’ – and to stress to authorities that they are accountable to all groups of their own population. Hunger disasters should not affect politically marginalised groups. The left has noted the Government’s commitment to concentrate Norwegian assistance on four main areas — and to focus on a good division of labour between donor countries in line with the Paris Declaration. The initiative in four main areas represents a priority in relation to St.meld. No 35 for 2003–2004, which the Left believes makes sense, as resources should not be spread too thinly. The left is essentially behind the four priorities. Peace and reconciliation and women and gender equality are areas where Norway has a great deal of competence to contribute. Among other things, women and gender equality are central, as women play an important role in the development of a country. As far as energy is concerned, the Left considers the possibilities related to Norwegian competence in the extraction and management of oil resources. Each drop of oil should be traded in welfare is an important objective to settle, but the Left is somewhat sceptical of the Minister of Development's somewhat unilateral emphasis on oil. New renewable energy sources such as: Wind, biofuels, solar and wave power should also be included in the Norwegian energy deployment. The same applies to the promotion of a sensible energy mix, where different forms of energy are combined to meet a future and growing energy demand in many developing countries. In addition, a unilateral commitment to oil does not take into account the need to reduce future CO2 emissions. As regards the environment, which is the last main field of action, the Left sees a clear attempt to set priorities in a publicly available consultation draft action plan. This seems reasonable, but it remains to be seen whether that plan and the Government's overall resource use in this area will be able to achieve the target set out in the Soria Moria Declaration that Norway will become a leading country in terms of environmental development cooperation. The Minister for Development stated in his statement that although the Government defines four main areas of activity, Norway can also make an effort in other areas. He pointed to research and education, agriculture and fishing as well as child mortality. The left will focus on the promotion of good public health. Health is a prerequisite for value creation and poverty reduction, and is part of three of the Millennium Goals. The left considers good public health to be a prerequisite for democratic and sustainable development. Agriculture is another central area where security of supply and the ability to feed its own population are at the centre. In the case of the World Bank and the international financial institutions, the Government has taken a stand. It advocates that they no longer be able to make demands for liberalisation and privatisation in order to get debt extinguished or to be able to raise new loans. The desire for liberalisation and privatisation must come from the cooperating countries themselves. The left supports such an approach, but will at the same time warn against steering Norwegian aid away from everything relating to liberalisation and privatisation, for ideological reasons. There are results that count, and in some cases private actors will be able to achieve better results than a weak and corrupt government. As regards the World Bank and the international financial institutions, the Left is most concerned about promoting democratic and social reforms in the recipient countries as well as sustainable development. The Left also attaches great importance to reforming and streamlining the UN system, and agrees that Norway should use its weight and credibility to achieve this. At the same time, it is important to remember that it is through interaction with many more or less like-minded countries that necessary reforms can be put in place. Norwegian efforts to reform the UN should therefore be focused mainly on building strategic alliances, with both countries and developing countries. In his presentation, the Minister of Development took us on a crossroads around the world and presented his worldview. In the following I would like to comment on his view of South America and China. He pointed to the left wind blowing over South America, and that the power base of the old elites is in the process of weakening in favor of broad popular movements. At the same time, it was warned against populist elements in that left wind. The left wishes to welcome democratic development in South America, but at the same time will call for a degree of caution with regard to the rapid channelling of significant Norwegian aid funds to the region. This implies that Norwegian aid should be based on sound professional judgements and not an immediate enthusiasm for the new left wind. It is not only complex, but appears to be based on different degrees of anti-Americanism — and can quickly turn from past experience in South America. The left also sees the need to focus on China, which, together with India, Brazil and South Africa, is taking on a new role as global leaders, as the Minister of Development referred to as ‘an axis of hope’. The left shares this hope. At the same time, the Left sees a clear need to influence several of these countries to respect more fully human rights and to promote sustainable development in the exercise of their new role. These include the fact that China has a high demand for raw materials and wants new markets for its cheap finished products, which they, through closer cooperation with regimes of different character in developing countries, can access. The left, for its part, places great emphasis on sound economic development in the private sector as an important prerequisite for the development of a country. Small and medium-sized enterprises play an important role here. They are usually based on local resources and purchasing power and not large-scale investments that can lead to extensive natural interventions, dependence and vulnerability through a one-sided economic development. In addition, many small and medium-sized enterprises can help to build an intermediate class, which promotes political stability. The left is in favour of strengthening the emergence of such enterprises by providing microcredit, accepting breeding tariffs and stimulating Norwegian enterprises to engage in developing countries to promote local business. The left will soon submit a proposal that up to 1 pst. the Pension Fund must be able to invest over time in the activities of poor countries in order to promote development and employment. Investments are intended to take place on commercial terms, and should also go to countries that have progressed well — so-called ‘merging markets’. Furthermore, Left will support the Government's efforts to remove unilateral debt from developing countries, including debt from the Norwegian shipping campaign.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-23.ana.ud1471e669	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-23.ana.ud1471e672	The left confirms that there is a very broad consensus on Norwegian development policy. And that's good. I would like to ask the representative of the Left if she also sees the need for a debate on where to channel aid and a review of how to do so. The new government places great emphasis on the role of the United Nations – as a conflict-resolving force with peace-keeping forces, as the administrator of international law and as the creator of a new international legal order, but also as a very important channel for assistance. We believe that the UN, not least a reformed UN, will be one of the best channels for obtaining assistance where it is needed. I myself have experienced and seen that UN organizations, among others. in Pakistan in 2001 with refugees from the then Taliban regime, only received help from UN organisations, but they did not have enough money. How does the Left of the United Nations view Norwegian aid as a channel?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-23.ana.ud1471e681	The left believes that the UN should be strong, and that there should be something we are going to do in the future. But at the same time, we have always pointed out that the UN must be reformed and that they must use channels that are OK. The left will also be committed to the UN, and we will cooperate with both countries and developing countries in order to bring about such a system of assistance through this.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-23.ana.ud1471e686	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-23.ana.ud1471e689	Let me first thank you for a very positive debate with lots of wise contributions – an inspiring debate that will make it possible when I leave here, I want the inspiration to work even harder in a field that all the participants in the debate have said is important. Let me start with what's really the least important debate, and that's the question of whether what's presented here is a new course or a bad course. It is not difficult to re-point mass in this statement, where the most important thing is perhaps a much clearer focus on how to use our means of assistance. We're going to run a tougher women's policy than the previous government did. We're going to have a completely different emphasis on energy, because it's an area where Norway has a special competence. We will be more critical of the World Bank. We want to deal with debt issues. We want to bring up Latin America, migration -- I can mention a number of things; it's stint of new things. At the same time, there is also a strong trend in the way that we do not complete the positive and sensible work done by the Bondevikregierung. I want to say that poor the policy area where there should be revolution each time a new Council of State entered the government quarter. If you changed everything and turned it all down every four years, we'd never get to do anything. Now, of course, we're going to sit a lot longer than four years, but that's if you took the worst possible option here. So it has to be a mixture – and that's the only thing that makes sense – by going on a lot, but there's also a very clear change in what's presented. If I'm going to point out that maybe the most important thing, there's something kind of general that's new. It is that this government represents much more than previous governments — it has been a gradual development, yes — a quantum leap by saying that development is much, much more than assistance. Assistance is a small, important part of creating development, but the most important thing is international power relations and power relations in individual countries. Policies are always the most important. For this reason, development policy must be part of the overall foreign policy, not deterred from the rest of foreign policy. For example, it is almost always essential to create peace in a country for development, and then we must always see development and foreign policy together. I also agree with what Finn Martin Vallersnes said very clearly, that, of course, development policy is also an extension of domestic policy. When we try to contribute to development in other parts of the world, we do. And we don't have to be embarrassed about that. We're doing it based on our values. For example, if we go out and contribute to another women's political investment in the world, it's based on Norwegian women's political values. When we believe that we have something to contribute to the management of natural resources – not to teach, but to share experiences – it is because we believe that we in Norway have done so in a way that others may benefit from, for example, hearing about. with close cooperation between the State and industry, with strong control systems and anti-corruption provisions, etc. Corruption has been in the hands of many people. There I want to challenge the Progress Party: at the moment you or some of your contacts become familiar with cases of corruption involving Norwegian development projects, so let's now to a great extent know about it immediately, so that we can take action against it. It shall not lack my will to hit it hard, if we see such cases. At the same time, we must also recognise that combating corruption is always difficult. It's not going to be happy and happy in many of our co-operation countries because we're starting a fight against corruption, but we want to see a development in the right direction through all the actions that many have been involved in the debate. So to Morten Höglund's very interesting, positive and good posts. He quoted a Kenyan scientist who pointed to some of the critical objections to assistance. Let me just say that this is a relevant and sensible criticism, which we have to discuss. Assistance can create corruption, help can create unnecessary bureaucracy, help can liquidate local markets instead of strengthening them, and perhaps most importantly: aid can in some cases contribute to less local entrepreneurship and less local real will to do something, including: Because there may be a tendency for the best people to be sucked in and start working on aid-related things, rather than creating their own business ideas or, for example, creating their own. own production. But not only the United Nations — it will also apply in relation to emergency aid, and it will apply in relation to non-governmental organisations. In Sri Lanka, as both Morten Høglund and I know, after tsunami, there was a strong tendency for a number of NGOs with good budgets to come in and suck up the best people, because they could offer the most interesting and exciting jobs and maybe the highest salaries. So these are completely relevant objections that we're going to discuss. One of the most important things Norad should now do when they discuss evaluation is to evaluate how Norwegian and international assistance works based on the criticism that Morten Höglund presented. I would also like to address what I would call tribal language in the field of development. A few months ago I was in South Sudan and heard an entire statement where there was not one normal, common word to hear in an hour. Everything was abbreviations and tribal language, mainstreaming and God knows what. But one of the tribal words I think also requires some deepening is the question of poverty orientation. That is right: development policies must aim at bringing up the poor, but development policies cannot always mean that, in every project, the poor are to be reached directly. Sam Eyde was, as I see it, very central to the fight against poverty in Norway, as a representative of a class of entrepreneurs who created Norwegian business. Martin Tranmæl was just as central to poverty reduction in Norway. He didn't organize the poorest first. He organized the more successful parts of the working class first. The sum of this, entrepreneurship and growth, which Sam Eyede symbolizes in Norway, and the organisation and power from below, which Martin Tranmæl symbolizes in Norway, is what created the fight against poverty in our country. I am in favour of poverty reduction and poverty orientation, but it cannot mean that every project and programme in the first instance should directly hit the poor. It is the growth and spread of the crop that has been shown to help. East Asia has set an example here in a way: formidable economic growth, but also a state that is able to ensure that people get part of it. And above all, there is also a need for non-governmental organisations, effective political parties and others to ensure that growth hits the poor. In that picture, I would also say that Africa is the continent we're going to bet most on – no doubt about it. Marit Nybakk, Jon Lilletun and others made important recordings here. I also want to see if we can do more in West Africa. I am strongly in favour of what Marit Nybakk said, namely that there must be more regional investment in Africa, not just individual investment on land. Countries must be able to act as a region. It was also the main message to Konaré of the African Union when he was in Oslo a short time ago. Yeah, we're gonna bet most on Africa. But it's also so that there's an equal number of absolutely poor people living in South Asia. The growth is more correct and better there. But still, there's a very large number of absolute poor people in South Asia. In Latin America is 20 pst. by the population of absolute poverty. More than 40 pst. the population is poor. So there's a lot of work to do. However, both in South Asia, in Africa and in Latin America, policy is most important. Assistance works politically, but the policy is the overall one. That's why I can't accept the argument that it's irrelevant what kind of development model or policy Latin American governments put on. Finally, I would just like to comment briefly on something that representatives have mentioned, and where my answer has been requested. Marit Nybakk and Ågot Valle were concerned about the issue of the World Bank. We will facilitate – if we get with neighbouring countries – a seminar in Oslo on privatisation issues in the World Bank. We will do so after the World Bank's September meeting in Singapore – for two reasons. One is that it is not on the agenda of this meeting, and it is therefore difficult to push it in, and the other is that we need more time to prepare it, because this will have no effect if only Norway joins in. But we are now starting work on getting such a seminar in Oslo in October/November, as the two representatives called for. Morten Höglund was in China. I'm very glad he said that we have to have the goal of getting China as a partner. The Minister for the Environment and I will try to get a joint trip to China in the month of September/October to see how aid and the environment can play together. This is in China's interest, but it is also, frankly, in the world's interest, and in Norwegian interest, to contribute to solving the environmental problems in China that China is playing over to the rest of the world. I've been told that the largest source of pollution in California is now China, and with the Pacific between China and California – that illustrates the point. Vallersnes was inside on the Red Cross and on what happened there. I'm going to catch it up and try to see if they've taken the criticism that Vallersnes used to bring, and that I want to follow up seriously. Ågot Valle was about the question of whether we should have presentations or briefings to the Stortinget. There, I will consult the Presidency and the Foreign Affairs Committee to hear what the Storting wants. Even I believe that explanations are the best form, and I was an active follower of it when I was in Stortinget. But if Stortinget prefers larger documents from the Government, we will of course settle it. Jon Lilletun wanted budgetary leakages – mostly. He wants us to take things too early. I can't do that, unfortunately. And if the president only allows until the end – to Samuelsen on Darfur: that's what the government is working very intensively on. Anne Margrethe Larsen wanted us to take on alternative energy sources, not just oil. We do, of course, but still in recognizing that there is oil that is the most important energy source in Africa in terms of short-term monetary performance.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-23.ana.ud1471e731	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-23.ana.ud1471e734	During the debate there has also been talk about aid channels. The UN has been mentioned, as well as non-governmental organisations and the debate around it. The representative Nybakk said in a line change before the Council of State had the word that a reformed UN was an important and good aid channel – that is how I understood it. It's not hard to agree with that. Nevertheless, we are not there to have a reformed UN. Nevertheless, is the Council of State so safe in the way that the United Nations system – now I am taking it as a whole – operates today, that he still wants to increase his investment in funds through the UN before the reforms are necessarily in place?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-23.ana.ud1471e739	We want a clearer commitment to the UN, not because we believe the UN is perfect and that we can be sure that every project or program the UN is involved in, operates in a perfect way, but there is no alternative to the UN if you want international organisation of assistance. One of the most important UN can do is to be a coordinator through a regional representative with a common programme and budget in each country, and to be the one setting the standards for its operation. If you look at international aid today, the UN is not a major player. I think -- I take the number out of memory -- that's 15 pst. by the development programmes operated by the United Nations. So there are some non-governmental organisations that are almost the same size, the World Bank is of course big and state of state aid is big. Where the UN is unique, it is like a set of norms and as the organizer of the joint effort that must take place in a single country – and we want to strengthen it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-23.ana.ud1471e746	The government says it wants to channel even more of Norwegian assistance through the UN. Then it is strange that when the UN Secretary-General proposed budgetary reforms, which could provide greater flexibility in money use and provide better coordination between the various UN organisations and agencies, the Government was unable to decide whether Norway was a donor country or a developing country, and voted in a blank way, as they just did over a devastating resolution, which is intended only to stop Kofi Annan's reforms. All other donor countries voted against, with Norway as the only lonely exception. I assume that our United Nations delegation is voting on a mission from the Government. What's the rationale?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-23.ana.ud1471e754	I must first say that I do not know this matter in detail. It sortes under the Secretary of State, so I haven't been in the details of it. But as I see it, Norwegian voting was like that because we felt it was developing a rather devastating conflict between the Third World countries and the more prosperous countries of North America and Europe, which did not benefit the matter. The contact we have had with a number of EU countries also suggests that many of them were of the same opinion, although the EU came to a common position on agreeing with the United States. It was a desire to destroy a conflict, which unfortunately does not help to bring the UN forward. What we are now seeing is a tendency towards polarization in the UN where some developing countries unfortunately oppose absolutely necessary reforms, but on the other hand, some major powerful countries act in such a way that they do not get people involved in reforms, but in reality act so arrogantly that the reform process is slowed down and stopped.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-23.ana.ud1471e761	Just to follow up on the representative of Vallersnes asked, I have a great understanding of much of the substance in the answer given by the Council of State, but in this case Kofi Annan, the Secretary-General, had put forward the proposal. He is not directly aware of countering the interests of developing countries, so I thought the argument that the Council of State led in this case was special. The Council of State is somewhat relieved of the criticism that has been made that one is so happy about what is happening in South America. I can tell the council that I'm quite happy too. I thought a lot of this was very good, but I would be very unhappy if it was a premise for Norwegian development policy. So I just want the Council of State's assurance that there are technical and developmental objectives to underpin the promises you give, not if the regime has one color or the other.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-23.ana.ud1471e768	I agree with Mr Lilletun that party politics in the sense of whether or not one likes party politics to a regime is, of course, completely irrelevant. What is not irrelevant is whether a regime or a government follows a development-oriented policy that contributes to raising the poor of the country, which contributes to the necessary economic growth and the construction of the country and its distribution. That's the most crucial question. If the concept of ‘aid professional’ is to make sense, it must be a fundamental political concept, because it is the policy that is the most important. A sensible development policy is the most important thing. Then, of course, you can look at the individual elements in it from an aid professional point of view, for example. how to fight corruption most effectively. I believe that organising conservative, right-wing parties and Christian-democratic parties in a popular and fine way around the world, is also an important part of Norwegian aid for democracy development and development, and will of course support it as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-23.ana.ud1471e777	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-23.ana.ud1471e780	The Council of State said in its statement that we have the opportunity to achieve the UN's Millennium Goals to Eliminate Poverty, or at least to reduce it to half as early as 2015. If we don't, it's because of a lack of will, not because of a lack of opportunity. Of course, the world community has set targets on poverty reduction in the past, and in the wake of good intentions many poor countries are left with a series of broken promises. The representative, Mr Höglund, is quite right about that. But it can't mean that because they failed before us, we're going to give up trying again. The development goals that the international community through the UN committed to in 2000 represented something new because they were concrete, they were measurable and, not least, a deadline for achieving its objectives was set, and the instruments for implementation are strong. The Millennium Goals say a lot about what poverty is, how poverty can be combated, and not least about when we can achieve results – if we want to. The Millennium Goals are simply a list of priorities for both the UN, national authorities and organisations working to reduce world poverty and the Millennium Goals commit. Today, nine years before the time it was agreed that these objectives could be achieved, we see that the status of target achievement varies greatly from country to country and from region to region. For example, countries in Asia and North Africa will: Realistically, the objective of halving poverty in 2015 could be achieved. We are making progress in the fight against poverty in some regions, but at the same time development is gloomy elsewhere. Most of these places are countries in sub-Saharan Africa. The countries of sub-Saharan Africa and some of the poorest countries of other regions are very much lagging behind in many of the Millennium Goals. Here we see, among other things: that, at today’s pace, the education target for all will only be achieved one hundred years after the deadline in 2015. In other areas, such as poverty and hunger, development is not even going in the right direction. So it doesn't go forward, and it doesn't stand still either – it actually goes in the wrong direction in some places. If the current trend persists, Africa may actually be the only region in the world where the share of people living on less than one dollar a day somewhere is going to be larger in 2015 than it was in 1990. An important reason for this is the AIDS epidemic that keeps Africa in an iron grip. Twenty-five million Africans are infected with HIV. To date, 11 million children have lost their parents because of HIV/AIDS. The disease creates poverty and hinders development, and if we cannot fight HIV/AIDS and reverse infectious trends, we cannot make progress either. It is very important that Africa is put at the top of the global policy agenda on poverty reduction, and it is right and it is important for the Government to focus so strongly on Africa. The representative Nybakk has been involved in a lot of it, and it also has the council, so I'm not going to repeat too much of it. Despite the small number of uplifting figures from some parts of the world, the UN concludes that it is possible to achieve the Millennium Goals, even in the poorest countries. It requires a much stronger effort. It is on the will of the world community. We have the knowledge, and we also have the cancers that are needed to get it. The report on the achievement of the Millennium Goals includes: the call for a strong increase in aid. It calls for high-income countries to now open their markets to exports from developing countries and also calls for better coordination of the UN system itself. Of course, we're going to back this up. The UN is the most important tool we have, but it can always get better. Nevertheless, there is no reason to report out and not contribute to poverty reduction through the UN system, such as the Progress Party for which the political party is at home, and such as the US as a Member State does in practice by trying to undermine the legitimacy of the objectives, by cutting off financial contributions to achieve the objectives and by directly countering some of the objectives of practical policies towards developing countries. Norway has been and is a strong defender of the Millennium Goals as opposed to the United States. This is because fair global development and poverty reduction are an important objective of Norwegian foreign policy, and because the UN is the cornerstone of Norwegian foreign policy. In the Government platform, we strongly express our full support for the ambitions of the Millennium Goals and for strengthening the UN system. We are showing this through concrete action at budgetary level and through the participation of the Prime Minister in the important reform process now under way. Let's see that the Millennium Goals become a real reality and actually create a wealth boost in the poorest part of the world, needs broad strategies and great upliftment in the western part of the world, but not least in the developing world itself. If the UN fails in its fight against poverty in the achievement of the Millennium Goals, it is only because the Member States do not want to. And if the UN fails with its own reform and weakens as a global player, it is definitely also the poorest countries it is going to go through.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-23.ana.ud1471e810	In fact, the Minister of Development’s presentation contained both positive surprises and new ideas. Of course, it remains to be seen how many of the new initiatives are being followed up by practical policies and actions, but that was very good. An important measure was to get Norwegian policy and business to move more in the same direction. A number of Norwegian enterprises have considerable competence and are also represented in many developing countries, so everything here is at the heart of much better cooperation than today. Another and important signal was the proposal for a better structuring of Norwegian assistance. We have focused on areas where we have considerable competence in Norway, such as: in the case of energy. Increasing the efforts in the areas in which we are good and at the same time entrusting what we cannot to others will, in my view, increase the focus and deliver significantly better results than today. In energy, we have developed a very good competence in Norway for over a hundred years, especially in the use of hydropower resources. Unfortunately, much of this competence is disappearing, as it is no longer politically correct to deploy hydropower in Norway. Nevertheless, there is still competence in this area in Norway, which can be used out-of-office if we want. In the petroleum sector, too, we have developed our competence for almost 40 years, and in this area we are also at the top of the world today. The availability of energy is crucial for development and poverty reduction in most places. Norway itself is a shining example of this in the last hundred years, where we have evolved from a poor country to become one of the world's richest – first by exploiting the hydropower and thereby by industrialising the country, and for the last 40 years when we have extracted large amounts of hydrocarbons from Norwegian soil. So all of this is due to the use of energy resources, and so we have to be able to use our competences in this area too. Another positive signal from the Minister of Development was the focus on anti-corruption. If we see that the money disappears in private pockets, we're going to hit hard on this,' said the Council of State. I do not know what the council specifically meant by what he said, but I assume, of course, that the government will immediately stop the cash flow if you see that the money disappears in private pockets. Over the years, we have seen a number of examples of corrupt regimes that have received Norwegian tax money. In spite of TV programmes, newspaper headlines, clear signals from help workers outside and international reports on corruption, the Norwegian authorities have only met with even more money over a number of years uncritically. One of many examples of this is the bank accounts abroad that appeared after Yasir Arafat died. There is a lot of evidence that many of these millions come from Norwegian taxpayers. If there are such things the council will hit hard on, this is a big step in the right direction. The Minister for Development goes very far in his tribute to the Left Wind that celebrates the South American continent. He later believed that this left wind would end what he called the «elitist power structure». History has also shown in Latin America that it plays a very small role if you have a right or left stamp. A good example of this is Cuba and Fidel Castro, where power is largely distributed among friends and family, and where the population has neither freedom of speech nor any influence on the development of the country. Castro's good friend in Venezuela, Hugo Chávez, is also not known for using particularly democratic rules, even if he comes from the left. Chávez uses the country's enormous energy resources to gain political influence over increasingly large parts of the South American continent. This certainly does not strengthen the democratic development of the region. As late as yesterday we saw again one of this man's many foreign policy crumbs. Now, in addition to refurbishment in the military, he is also going to acquire fighter planes for the terrorist regime in Iran, a regime whose primary aim is to destroy the State of Israel. It's actually a bit of a shame that a foreign policy statement that contained so much good, actually lost something of the credibility thanks to the Minister of Development's praise of the Left Forces in Latin America.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-23.ana.ud1471e833	The Minister of Development's presentation gives a clear overview of a committed government council in a high priority area of government. The centre party is pleased both with the warning of the national target and governance clearance and with the strengthening of efforts to strengthen the UN in the areas of peace building, environmental protection, relief and development. We think it's the right strategy to recognize that we're not as good at everything in Norway. At the same time, we have certain advantages, and they are going to be actively used in our work for development. Energy, peace and reconciliation, women's and gender equality issues and the environment are particularly highlighted, while emphasis should be placed on research, education, agriculture and fisheries. When Norad presented his strategy paper for the next ten years on 18 May, an MMI study on people's trust in Norwegian development aid was also presented. That's called 63 pst. do not know what the help money is. It was also called 59 pst. Of the people who were asked, don't believe the money came to those who need the most help. It tells us a great potential for information. It tells not only about the need to raise both local and central debates on development assistance, but also about what results to expect. So I think it also tells something about the need to stimulate the strengthening of the grassroots exposure in Norway. Voluntary organisations, trade unions and churches have extensive experience in development work. It is important to strike the right balance between stimulating and making demands. There is a long tradition in many communities in Norway to take initiatives and to be creative. I'll give you an example. It is the initiative that was taken at Finnøy in Ryfylke for a short time and which has the title of the Columbia project – with microcredit, with micropower plants and with day centres. This means that there are concrete results where this work is conducted. However, one should not underestimate the importance it has locally in the Finn Island towns, both among adults who are engaged, and not least among children and young people who see that what they are saying is directly helpful in an area that needs their support. Finn Martin Vallersnes has briefed on the IPU conference in Kenya. I had the opportunity to attend there. A seminar was entitled ‘Development of Africa’. It is gratifying to record the progress made, both in terms of human rights and democracy, in many countries in Africa. What still remains with me is the representative from Zimbabwe who cried out loud: put it on the women, if not closed one! And it's Wangari Mathai, who started locally with tree planting for peace, who now after two years in Kenya can register that a stronger fight is being called in her country to counteract corruption. In addition, there is a call for a stronger commitment to own control bodies in many countries, so that we can do even more.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-23.ana.ud1471e846	I guess we could all shout like the president of Zimbabwe: put on the women! In its good and comprehensive presentation, the Minister for Development presented women’s assistance, combating HIV and AIDS, women’s right to safe and self-determined abortion and women and gender equality. There are areas of action that the Right fully supports. The Minister for Development also mentioned UN Millennium Goal No. 4 on reducing child mortality by two thirds by 2015, and in that context the vaccination programme, which I believe is a very good and important initiative. However, there is one area I am a little surprised that the Minister for Development too slightly above, namely women’s reproductive rights – UN Millennium Goal No. 5, about motherhood and maternal mortality. This is an area that is so important and so crucial that it has earned a clearer and clearer voice here in the Storting. Reproductive rights are about fundamental human rights such as the right to freedom, the right to life and the right to health. Millions of women daily experience violations of these rights. The World Health Organisation report for 2005 ‘Make every mover and child count’ clearly shows the challenges and puts words and numbers on the serious situation. Several hundred million women and children have no access to life-saving health care and care for pregnancy and childbirth. Half a million women die each year as a result of pregnancy and childbirth. More than three million children die in their mother's life and more than four million newborns die the first days or weeks after birth. The WHO report indicates that these mortality rates can be significantly reduced if you can provide comprehensive and good health services in pregnancy, childbirth and in maternity. It is internationally recognised that the action plan of the UN Conference on Population and Development in Cairo in 1994 is the leading document in improving women’s reproductive health and rights. Although the world’s governments were unable to agree on all aspects of reproductive health when the Millennium Goals were due to fall, it is very important that this does not dampen Norway’s attitudes and efforts in this area. On the contrary, the Cairo document must not disappear in other and new objectives and strategies for action in other areas. Norway has to play a clear role as an active champion to meet the commitments of the action plan. Discrimination against women in this area is particularly extensive and cruel. As I said, millions of children and women suffer, and very many die because they do not have access to a minimum of health care and education. When we know that there are women who bear the heaviest burdens in relation to children, family, work, the older generation and the surrounding environment, we can hardly imagine what a tragedy it is for a society when women get sick and die. And it's not because of lack of knowledge that so many of the world's women are at risk of loss of life and health as a result of childbirth. No, it is because those with knowledge, those with political authority and responsibility for health and education programmes and social assistance programmes have failed. They have simply not given priority to women's health and development needs. This is gross discrimination. Women’s health and women’s rights are simply crucial for the development of these areas. And there's certainly no lack of vision. But visions require action, not just from women, but from responsible politicians, governments and organizations around the world. Only visions combined with active action can contribute to change. We live in a safe and peaceful part of the world, and we have freedom in relation to most. Freedom comes with a great responsibility and an obligation to contribute. Norway's starting point is the very best, and we have to take a power cap in the area that I have now mentioned. I will challenge and encourage the Council of State and the Government to pay considerable attention and effort in terms of women's reproductive health and the right to education. Development policy is most important, and Norway must play a leading role here.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-23.ana.ud1471e877	There was a great deal to enjoy in the Minister of Development’s presentation to the Storting — a Memorandum of Understanding for an offensive development policy which, in essential areas, announced the need for a change and an end to our policies in this context. There are, in particular, two areas I want to highlight. It is emphasised that Norway would be a critical partner to the World Bank and that Norway would actively use its future governing position in the World Bank. I am pleased that the Council of State stressed that Norway would be concerned that this is not a prerequisite, that there should be no requirement for privatisation in the event of debt cancellation and the payment of loans to developing countries, and that Norway would respond if the World Bank continued to press through ideologically based privatisation. This programme statement harmonizes with the experience we have had in developing our own welfare society: a strong state and a large well-functioning public sector have just guaranteed a society in which citizens have fundamental social and democratic rights. Our country is named for the world's best country to live in. If we had our own crew for women's situation, we wouldn't be behind the general crew. Norway is also a leading country in terms of women’s participation in work and policies and is in a particular class in terms of reproductive health policies. This commits, and it commits, in the sense that we must contribute to the participation of other women in this well-being. I am inexorably happy that the Minister for Development identifies women and gender equality as one of four main areas of action, and that the Government will launch a new action plan for gender equality-oriented development cooperation during the year. Bettering women's living conditions and their reproductive health is not only a prerequisite for combating poverty in the world, improving reproductive health is also a vital investment in future generations and a future world. Recognition of the key economic and social position of women in developing countries suggests that much more of the means of assistance should go for that purpose. I interpret the Council of State's statement to you that that's exactly what's meant. I would also ask the Council of State to seriously consider whether it would not be right to earmark a certain proportion of the aid for just reproductive health. The Minister of Development has previously called on this speaker to support the Global Fund for Safe Abortion, and I am therefore very pleased that the Minister of Development announces support for this fund to compensate for the reduction in support for those organisations that are working to improve reproductive health. More than 68 000 women die each year as a result of lack of qualified assistance in connection with abortion. No matter what attitudes you might have toward abortion and abortion, I don't think anyone can accept that women will die that way. Similarly, a person cannot combat AIDS by moralizing sexual behavior or by preaching abstinence. Information on how to protect against or prevent sexually transmitted diseases and the availability of condoms is what is needed. However, when the situation is that condoms cost as much as a meal and condoms become a deficiency because organisations in the field do not receive support when they are working on contraception, the fight against AIDS and the work to prevent unwanted pregnancies is difficult. Finally, I would like to express once again my joy and joy at the Council of State for the policy that places women's health and well-being at the centre.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-23.ana.ud1471e896	The struggle for human dignity and against poverty is the most important political issue for the Christian People's Party. Solidarity with the world's poorest, not just in words, but in action, is our greatest political challenge. And it is quite right, as the Minister for Development said, could there be any greater task for our generation than to make poverty history? If we are to succeed in this work, we must, as Minister of Development Erik Solheim said, do. We cannot accept the injustice that characterizes the world today. We must help ensure that everyone has access to human rights. It's about showing closeness and respect for other people's rights and equivalency. We have a good starting point financially to be able to share our wealth with those who need it. We should have higher ambitions than 1 pst. of GDP — more than one kr per. One hundredth of a second. But aid, or help alone, is not enough. Assistance will only provide long-term assistance and development if it is received by a well-functioning state that can build well-being and distribute the goods fairly – a country that spends not on war and corruption but on education, health and business. Debt relief, trade and investment, together with assistance, are essential to give developing countries real opportunities for development. Developing countries need a stronger position in international forums. It is an overall challenge to better integrate the poorest countries into the world economy. A more open world trade with increased market access for developing countries is more important to combat poverty than just aid. One of the main rich countries can do to support poverty reduction is to open up their own markets to developing countries’ products. The Minister for Development has defined four areas where Norway is among the best in the world, where we have a lot to contribute, including in the fight against poverty. It's energy, peace and reconciliation, women's and gender issues and the environment. It is clear that our competence is important in terms of energy challenges. And we have, and shall have, a strong peace exposure. The Government further points to women’s and gender equality issues, and it is positive that the Government will launch a new action plan for women’s and gender equality-oriented development cooperation. The Council of State states in its statement that the Government will place greater emphasis on the environment than the previous one. The Christian People's Party has nothing against it. But he doesn't say much specifically about what the government is going to do. I would like to challenge the Council of State and the Government in terms of poverty reduction and the environment, for here there is an – too many – unpleasant context. It is my claim that we cannot solve the poverty problems with economic growth. It's not sustainable. We need to solve the poverty challenges in the world with redistribution. It means in plain text that we have to stop the consumption spiral. That means that the rich part of the world must get less and the poor more. There's enough food in the world, it's just misdistributed. The Christian People's Party does not share the government's view of abortion. We want to strengthen the legal protection of unborn life in both the rich and the poor part of the world through increased efforts for women and children, both medically, socially and economically. But none of us want unsafe abortions. The Christian People's Party will therefore work for better access to prevention and guidance, better health provision and financial support. Nordahl Grieg says in the poem ‘To Youth’ [[(1936):]] Norway has established itself with a strong commitment and a clear profile on the international arena. In particular, efforts are being made in the field of peace and reconciliation and the priority given to assistance. It is more important than before to be visible and active. Value diplomacy is becoming increasingly important because opinion expects motives other than national interests in foreign policy. Norway should consolidate its position as a nation of peace and as a nation of humanitarian work, not because we are the best, but because we want to eradicate distress and hunger, and because we want it strong enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-23.ana.ud1471e924	Let me start by thanking the Council of State for a very inspiring and insightful presentation here in the Stortinget. Norway is a small country in the world, where its inhabitants have been incredibly fortunate both in terms of governance and in relation to natural resources. The debates here in Stortinget may sometimes seem a little petty, even for us who carry out our duties here. Instead of the negative angle of the Advance Party on the Socialist Left, we should be happy to see that the Minister for Development announces new measures. I registered that the representative Vaksdal also boasted of the Council of State, and that is good. Because while we've been debating here today, many people have died of hunger, have been tortured and raped – in our world. Families are involuntaryly separated. Fathers and mothers have experienced that their children have died between their hands because of a lack of vaccine. But here we get a debate on whether SV has turned around or not. I see the Minister of Development as a reform-willing and knowledge-rich state council. And that's good. The world faces major challenges, and Norway is known as a part of the world. What's happening elsewhere in the world is going to have an effect on us. If the Chinese start using toilet paper, the world's forests will be destroyed in 30 years. Climate change policy and climate change mainly affect poor countries, but it will also affect Norway. Environmental policy is also aid policy. Climate policy, pollution and the substitution of developing countries must be combated. I am pleased that this government believes that dialogue should be combated instead of the Bush and the Advance Party solutions. If poor countries develop in relation to the consumption society, of which we are part, simply the world will not have sufficient resources. Therefore, Norway, which has been so fortunate in relation to natural resources, in relation to democratic development and in relation to not being exploited by colonial powers, has a overall responsibility to show solidarity with those who do not. We live in a country built on equivalency and solidarity. Political decisions and actions have enabled us in small Norway to create the world's best country to live in. It's come because we've been able to solidify ourselves with those who need it. The greatest enemy of the welfare state is the dissatisfaction of contentment. Today, egoism and dissatisfaction may seem to be getting stuck in Norway. When parties are given increased excitement to cut to the poorest of the world while in a generation or two they will waste values that it has taken 150 million years for nature to build up, a wonder can be made about what is about to happen in our prosperous society. I am proud to belong to a party in a government that will build international solidarity. For the really big challenges – the fight against poverty, hunger, terror, environmental damage, loss of soil and human life – we must solve with others. Otherwise we'll never solve them. Then we know how it will go. I would therefore once again like to thank the Council of State for a promising and inspiring presentation here in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-23.ana.ud1471e944	Both I and all those who sympathise with the Advancement Party must be allowed to give a critical look at traditional assistance without that being tantamount to not caring about the world's poor. On the contrary, I believe that the burden of proof of the effects of aid policy is not with the Progress Party, but it lies with those parties that have defended a system that has not worked for many, many years. The world's poor about Norwegian debate on aid policy is all about whether we can allocate 0.9 or 1.1 pst. of GNI to the poor of the world, if they never see the money. Therefore, our focus must be the ability and willingness to look at an aid policy that is reaching. I record that all those who traditionally defend traditional assistance never allow themselves to go by themselves with some kind of self-critical assessment of whether the system you continue to defend actually works. I – and many taxpayers with me – see no value in pouring billions of dollars out of Norway and into the pockets of corrupt dictators. But we can see great values in finding other ways to get this money to the poor of the world, so that they actually get out of the mess. Then I think we should allow ourselves, as one of the richest countries in the world, to take that debate with a critical look at whether the aid actually works or not. When it comes to increased nutrition development, I have to say that I'm pleased that the government is signaling a greater focus on it. For the past, the focus has been on promoting Norwegian business interests in poor countries. It's supposed to be in conflict with a noble desire to help the world's poor. I am reasonably sure that Norway will be able to facilitate the emergence of Norwegian business around poor countries, it will seem far more effective on the development of democracy, on opening up these societies, on making them more transparent, simply because it means that the nations are going to be heavily dependent on the fact that the companies are there, because they create jobs, tax revenues, values for the society that might be slow, but probably can get out of the misery they've been in for decades. We owe it to the poor of the world to do something about it. Perhaps we should rather channel a little more of today's traditional aid money that way, instead of just cementing our faith in how the aid policy should be. The same applies to trade. I record that a lot of people in different classrooms talk hot and nice about how important it is to get the poor countries into world trade. But at the moment that we actually have the opportunity to do so, through the WTO negotiations, yes, all the instigating arguments come ahead of why we should not remove the customs barriers against the African countries, because it is only the EU that is going to benefit from it anyway. There are many in this room who use it as an argument why Norway should not help to reduce our customs barriers to the poor countries. But at least it's a step in the right direction to let them take part in the trade that over many decades has made Norway one of the richest countries in the world. It is also important that aid policy has legitimacy in the population. It is important that the people have confidence in the achievement of their tax money. I have to say that in all the debates I have followed on aid and development, you always end up in a discussion about how much money you have to give, but never are you able to take a self-searching look at whether the world's poor will be less poor and more satisfied with the maintenance of traditional aid. It is reasonably certain, based on many international reports submitted recently, that this is not the case. After all, we should dare to take those debates, change the means and actually ensure that the poor people around the world can regain self-respect through work, wealth development and trade. It's probably the key, and there's a key that no one in this room, at least not the majority, has to put in the lock.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-23.ana.ud1471e957	Despite the fact that the last article here could indicate something else, we must be able to conclude that there is a great deal of excitement about the development policy pursued in Norway. Not least this is the objective of 1 pst. assistance from gross domestic product. It is positive, but a great deal of agreement can also be unfortunate if it leads to the debate to a halt. When the target of 1 pst. I don't think it's due to a lack of political will, either from the previous government or from what we have today, because if you look away from the percentage, and focus on the crowns and ears, you see an impressive growth. When the percentage has not been reached, there is an enormous growth in the Norwegian economy, and not least the high oil price. It is therefore right to claim that the aid policy is and has been a field of activity, and I believe that the binding objective of reaching 1 pst. of GDP, is one of the main reasons why growth has been achieved in this area. Even if one is to stand firm on this goal, it is nevertheless important that one not only adheres to the quantity and forgets its contents. In particular, we want Norway to play an important role in development policy, and we need to focus on how these funds are used. Bad projects or experiences can undermine whole policies. Therefore, strong control and a critical look at the use of means of assistance are crucial. I have to be completely honest and say that when you see how much money Norway contributed to this sector, the debate is far too small both in Norway and in the UK. That is why it is positive that we have received this debate today and that we have received a statement from the Minister for Development. Most of the earth's population is poor. Many live in a wretched state of affairs, without meeting the most fundamental needs. It may be easy to lose your mod, but if you look around the world, you will also see another image. Overall, things are better with the world. Only in China alone have over 400 million people been lifted out of poverty in recent years. In other Asian countries, economic growth is positive. So the old Norwegian saying that when it rains on the pastor, it drips on the clock, fortunately also seems to be true here. Economic growth is a factor in reducing poverty. In Africa, the economy has been growing in many countries in recent years. Although one will never be able to transfer experiences directly from one country to another, we should try to find the common denominators for the countries that have gained positive development. I agree with Mr Solheim when he points out that a functioning state is decisive, that one must also have a market-based economy as an entity. As it seems to me, those countries that have had the strongest growth, either had a natural resource or managed to start a production of goods that they have been able to sell on the world market, which in turn has contributed to this growth. Therefore, the focus on economic activity, industrialisation and trade must be an important part of our development policy. From time to time there is a discussion in Norway about Norwegian businesses should establish themselves in countries with a lack of governance or dictatorship. Of course, there are limits to this. Nevertheless, I would argue that it is an advantage to obtain foreign investment in most regimes. In this way, you can be involved and contribute to development and dialogue, and you also get new channels for interaction, you get a people for people-to-people cooperation through people working in these companies, but one also opens up authority contacts in a completely different way. It is true that we in Norway have created an ethical code for investment in the oil fund. Perhaps it would have been an idea to develop a similar regulatory framework also for investments made by Norwegian businesses. This probably has to be a guide in that case, but I still think it might be important. If we are to get several Norwegian companies to invest in poor countries, I think it is important to have good financing arrangements, schemes that are better than we have today. Now I'm running out of time, but I just want to say that I fully support everything that has been said about indebtedness. I believe that this is one of the reasons why many of the new democracy in particular should be able to function.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-23.ana.ud1471e974	It is not difficult to agree with much of the state council's comment, but there are unfortunately large gaps in the statement. Africa as a continent is almost gone, and so is the Norwegian strategy to achieve the UN’s Millennium Goal number one – eradicating extreme poverty and famine. It's just Africa that has the largest proportion of the population who live daily for one dollar or less, and it's just Africa as a continent that is all too often hit by starvation. It's almost as if this is being sacrificed for the sake of the stature of middle-income countries from Latin America and their recent left-wing twist. In April Kjell Magne Bondevik was in Eritrea as the UN Special Rapporteur to the Horn of Africa. This is a country where it was estimated one year ago by the United Nations that two thirds of the country's 3.6 million inhabitants need food aid. Nevertheless, Eritrea will not comply with Bondevik's demand to start delivering food that they already have in stock. The government of the country will rather sacrifice its own population than its own pride. Several foreign relief organisations have been thrown out and signs of widespread famine are beginning to surface. I challenge the Council of State on what the Norwegian position is that Eritrea insists on self-driving when this is obviously not possible, and that its population suffers unnecessarily. Because it can't be passivity. One of the countries I know best is Zimbabwe. The vanguard here has managed to achieve another world record. This time it's inflation. Today it became known that inflation in the last year has been on the whole of 1043 p.m. It has, among other things, the effect that an average family of six needs $41 million of Zimbabwean dollars or about $2,000 a month of food. In comparison, an average works 14 million Zimbabwean dollars. I should also add that there are far more people who don't work than do it. Seven years of economic decline are a major factor in the population every day. 80 pst. by Zimbabwe’s inhabitants live below the poverty line, and more and more people have problems getting enough food. This is an outrage at its worst, and Norway must stand first for a democratic Zimbabwe that sets its own citizens’ needs ahead of those of the rulers. Africa can also help Africa. Only 10 pst. of all trade in Africa is regional, against 50-60 pst. in Europe and Asia. To quote South Africa Finance Minister Trevor Manuel: ‘Why is it that we find it easier to deal with Asia and America than our own African brothers and sisters?’ He answers his rhetorical question at a conference in Burkina Faso with strict visa restrictions, poor infrastructure and a lot of taxes and customs duties. I would also include corruption as one of the reasons for little trade in Africa. The U2 star Bono is in these days on a tour in Africa. He has as his main message that the continent needs more transparency, not bribes. All of this can do something about it. Jeffrey Sachs is one of the world's leading macro-economics and leader of the UN's Millennium Project. He has focused on seven instruments to combat extreme poverty. These are fertilizers and seeds to increase crops, anti-malaria bednets, better access to clean water, increased focus on crops that can be sold on the international market to gain access to currency, delivery of food in schools, call it the eradication of small worms that are common inside the bodies, especially to small children, and the introduction of new technologies, such as: mobile phones or energy-saving both generators and other electrical equipment. Let me take an example from a school in Sauri, Kenya. The school went from being at most medium to becoming the second best of the 253 district schools — these were exam results — because this school gave its children a meal a day. Obviously, children can stay longer at school, be more focused and learn more if they get energy and don't go hungry. Norway has a unique opportunity to be a major contributor to coping with the world’s extreme poverty.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-23.ana.ud1471e998	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-23.ana.ud1471e1001	I'll take the floor again to comment on a few of the posts. Let me say that unlike their party trap, Højlund, the representatives Øyvind Waksdal and Siv Jensen have had posts that cannot be undisputed. Vaksdal claims that Norway has uncritically spent money that has gone to private pockets to powerholders. Siv Jensen asks: What are we going to do with assistance when the poor have never seen the money? Then I almost have to ask the two representatives: are they familiar with the microcredits that have made sure that poor women in Bangladesh have acquired a small enterprise, sometimes by formalising the informal sector. Maybe they sold flowers, and then they got a small business using microcredit. Have they seen the circumcised women in Ethiopia who are being destroyed for life at birth and who are receiving help from Norway, or have they seen the work to combat precisely sexual mutilation? Have they been to hospitals in Malawi, supported by Norway through the United Nations Development Programme, and have they seen what they're doing? Have they been to Afghanistan looking at training police or contributing to democracy and training? Is this what's going on in private power pockets? Then it's necessary to comment on the Christian People's Party, which is an important part of the breadth of the aid majority, but which turns away when we ask questions about reproductive health. It is that the right not to be abused by sex, the right to decide about sexuality, the right to be born in a safe environment, the right to be prevented, but also the right to safe and self-determined abortion are important parts of working with reproductive health. I've seen pictures from Latin America: a woman who did the 16th abortion, another woman who used celery, a third woman who was lying in a blood pool after a wise man had tried to commit an abortion on her. No women shall be exposed to this. Regardless of what one might feel about the right to self-determined abortion, it is important that we support the Global Fund for Safe Abortion established by the International Family Planning Organisation (IPPF) and that we support the UN Population Programme. I do not believe that the Christian People's Party is on the line of the Bush administration in relation to these organizations, but I think the Christian People's Party is refusing and withdrawing from these issues, which I believe are absolutely crucial if we are to ensure the health of women in the developing countries in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-23.ana.ud1471e1019	I'm a little in doubt. I am among those who throughout the day have greatly appreciated hearing the well-founded and well-founded contributions from the representatives of the Progress Party. I was therefore quite surprised after Siv Jensen's contributions, which I perceive more as a spontaneous reaction to the reasoned reasoning her own party traps have contributed to this day. There are some strange things that are said, including: that the Progress Party will make better use of the same resources. But that's not what we've heard before, through budgetary debates, etc. One wants to use less resources. So demand an initiative from the defenders of the existing aid policy to see what you are doing. One must have followed very poorly in recent years if one has not understood that there is a significant debate about the development of evaluation tools, not only for auditing but also for impact measurement, development of performance targets and definitions and the confrontation of consequences, both towards us as donors, and towards recipients, who practice this poorly. I assume that the Council of State itself can elaborate on what lies in the new impact assessments you are proposing to undertake, and which I think is an excellent continuation of evaluation methods. I think it all bears witness to a spontaneous post by someone who has actually been poorly followed.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-23.ana.ud1471e1028	Of course, it is not possible at this short time, three minutes, to respond to the many reasonable points of view that have come, but let me start by joining Vallersnes: the speech we heard from the parliamentary leader of the Progress Party was strange. Now the Progress Party must come out of the role of victim of politics and over in the role of actor, as a political party, as they appeared in Morten Höglund's contributions in an excellent way. There is not one person in this Chamber who has not taken into account all the critical points made by the Progress Party on Development Policy. We'd like to discuss them. Many of them are sensible, many of them are very central objections, so let's discuss them. We also want to hear the options of the Advance Party, what the Advance Party will do in a much better way, and then we can discuss it too. Then I would like to say that when we go into the aid policy, we have to go into it with the humility that Norway's contribution to aid is 1/40 of what, for example. The Iraq war alone costs. The whole world contributes to aid is much less than the cost of the Iraq war. The whole world contributes to aid is much less than the immigrants send home. The whole world contributes to aid, is just a prom, a fraction, of what, for example. All the warriors in the world cost. So let's have the humility that aid alone cannot change the world, but it can be a small contribution to it, and of course it should be operated in the most sensible way possible. Anette Trettebergstien, Sonja Sjøli, Britt Hildeng and a number of others have raised questions about assembly, abortion and a number of other related themes. I have to say that I am very pleased with the strong commitment that is in the Storting in this area. I don't want you to cheer on me or cheer on the government. I want you to continue to be active and express these views in all the international forums where Norway comes up, and in dialogue with all our partners. Because this is not something the government can do alone. This is the sum of what Norwegian politicians, Norwegian women’s organisations and Norwegian non-governmental organisations do, which can help us to have international influence in this area. And of course, we're going to make sure that money is given to the many things that were demanded. Then more people have been in Latin America. Of course, as in Africa and elsewhere, policy is the most important. Politics, whether it's left- or right-oriented, which is populist in the sense that you just do things to serve rulers right now, without having any long-term perspective, or contributing to dictatorship, does not promote development on any continent. But the fact that popular movements, church organizations, trade unions and indigenous groups that have been very far from power, can now again be included in a power structure and have their voice heard, on the other hand, is very important and significant for long-term development. The single element Norway can most likely contribute here will be different ways of promoting institution building. I get in a final comment back with a summary of the debate and a thank you to everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-23.ana.ud1471e1041	It was the Chairman of the Advance Party, Siv Jensen, who made me take the floor again, for there was a lot of talk and many empty words here. The representative Jensen spoke about the importance of having a ‘critical look’ on aid policy. I prefer to call it development policy. The Progress Party will wind up today's u-help and Norad, it says in the programme of the Progress Party. Is it having a ‘critical look’ on u-help? The worst example, however, is that the Progress Party in the 2006 budget cut over DKK 2 billion in aid to Africa. Sub-Saharan Africa is the least rusted region when the UN's so-called Millennium Goals on poverty reduction are presented. In an international living conditions index of 2004, 23 of the last 25 places are occupied by African countries. Cut from the Progress Party will hit the poorest. For example, aid to one of Norway’s main co-operation countries, Malawi, was cut by 140 million. kr. Just 20 million. The kr is left over. Malawi is one of the poorest countries in the world. The country is ranked as No. 165 out of 177 countries on the living conditions index. 14 pst. is estimated to be HIV infected by the adult population. This year’s Norwegian budget is intended to support the development of governance in Malawi, economic reform, health, HIV/AIDS control and agriculture. So there are such measures the Progress Party wants to cut. But it doesn't have much to do with 'a critical look'. The Chairman of the Progress Party should listen to his representatives in the Committee and set up his policies and policies for the future to have a critical look at aid policy, but in fact also take part in the debate, which means that they have to give money to do so. We distance ourselves from the liberalist notion that everyone is self-sufficient, whether you're under the pressure or the dividends.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-23.ana.ud1471e1057	Before Morten Höglund gets the floor, the President will say that there has been a situation in which the Council of State would very much like to answer some of the questions he has received, but to which he does not have the time to speak. Rules of procedure make it possible for some participants in the debate to have access to more than one entry. The President will therefore, on the basis of the second paragraph of Section 36, propose that the Council of State and the leaders of the party groups in the Stortinget be given access to the number of three-minute posts they wish. Is there anyone who wants to vote against this proposal? - It's not. It's passed.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-23.ana.ud1471e1064	The representatives of Waksdal and Jensen will answer for what has been addressed to them, but I have felt that we have had a very good debate here today – I have to say – based on one, as I have said before, constructive presentation with many useful input. The representative of Klungland, on the other hand – I must be allowed to address it – pointed out that there was probably an undertone of it, that the Progress Party, as was said in the last article, was ‘say enough’. There was no solidarity. You wanted to keep the money at home and not help them out there. That's what I heard in that post, and I think it's not wrong to describe it. What we have just tried to point out in our policies for many years is the effect of the existing aid policy. I didn't think I had to come up here again just to repeat it. It's not about lack of solidarity, it's about seeing the results of what you're doing. It was referred to Africa and our cut in Africa. Africa is probably the continent that tragically has seen what crazy aid can lead to. If you can show that Africa is lifted up in a harmonious and growth-promoting environment as a result of aid, yes, we're going to give for it. But that's not the result, and that's the result we're pointing at. That's why I don't think it's necessary to make the kind of statements that this is a lack of solidarity, it's about being yourself enough. This is not what it is about; it is about addressing development policy constructively and trying to solve the challenges that we see, with instruments that help, not old-fashioned and not traditional, and not, as we have pointed out, planning economic instruments. That's the focus we've been trying to focus on the debate, and that's the focus we also feel that many others in the room have been trying to address through this debate, and look at it with new eyes. We would like to continue on that track, and we accept the invitation that we feel the Minister for Development has addressed to the entire Storting, to be in on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-23.ana.ud1471e1076	It is now a fact that all countries that have had good economic development over the last decades have been those that have moved away from the planned economy and from the market economy. Why in the world should we, then, push the poor countries around the world into a plan economy that they themselves have left because it does not work? I have to say that the last posts that have been here indicate that attack is obviously the best defense for someone. But it is not the Progress Party that has the burden of proof in development policy. It's the parties that have held on to traditional thinking around this for many, many years. I am somewhat surprised when highlighting the problems in the sub-Saharan African countries, which are perhaps the countries that have received the most traditional assistance and support from Norway for a long time, and which nevertheless seem to be heading in a different direction to the UN's Millennium Goal. It is then necessary to be able to take a factual and well-founded discussion about the tools that have traditionally been used. Everything else doesn't make sense. It's not like the Progress Party doesn't want to help the world's poor. But we've pointed out alternative solutions, we've launched alternative proposals, and we've launched alternative ways of developing and helping nations. It is well possible that the majority in this Chamber do not agree with that. But there's quite a difference between disagreeing with alternative instruments and accusing other parties of not caring. At first, Klungland spent considerable resources talking about how to deal with the world's environment if the Chinese started using toilet paper. That's a pretty good illustration of how you might think in some parts. I want all the world's poor people to have access to the consumption development that we enjoy in this country and that we have received as a result of economic growth and development over a long period of time. I want that for all Chinese, and what I want for all Africans. Why on earth should we deprive them of that opportunity? And how can you say – as some people do in this room – that the key to success is to redistribute the wealth created in our part of the world to the part of the world that hasn't worked out. No, the key to success is to make sure that the other countries that we and many of our fellow countries in the aid policy have kept away effectively, too, have the opportunity to participate in our trade preferences in the context of market economy principles. These are the debates we have to dry up. And the burden of proof is not with the Advance Party. It lies with the other parties in this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-23.ana.ud1471e1089	The representative, Marit Nybakk, said that I had claimed that all development aid went uncritically into private pockets. This isn't exactly right. I showed examples like the bank account after Yasir Arafat that illustrated that everything was not as it should be, and I also said that it is likely that much of this money actually came from Norwegian taxpayers. On the other hand, I gave tribute to the Government and the Council of State for their presentation because it was just focusing on the effectiveness and fight against corruption in these countries. The representative Nybakk also asked if I did not know the value of microcredit. I would like to remind the representative Nybakk of the following: I recently took part in an interview on the importance of women for the development of developing countries and other poor countries. There I mainly focused on this with microcredit, which I received positive feedback from the Minister for Foreign Affairs. This I thought actually Marit Nybakk had brought with me.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-23.ana.ud1471e1096	The debate today has focused on women and unsafe abortions. I would like to make it quite clear that the Christian People's Party is very concerned with women's health, and we are taking sexual mutilation seriously. We want to focus on the situation of women in poor countries in terms of health, information, prevention and social and financial support. We have not drawn our support to this international work. But it's in the abortion question the Christian People's Party has a different view than the Government, because we want to give the unborn child a stronger legal protection. There is no contradiction in being in favour of support for women, regardless of their situation in life — whether they are pregnant, or whether they are having an abortion — while at the same time wanting a reinforced legal protection for the unborn.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-23.ana.ud1471e1101	What I reacted to in Siv Jensen's contributions was the tendency to present the Progress Party as a kind of very little innocent victim in politics instead of a party that has positions that we have now all discussed in this debate. There is no one here who has not dealt entirely with Morten Höglund's very good posts, for which I gave him credit. I want to go so far as to say that if the Progress Party had not existed, we would have to find out, because we need someone who comes up with the critical objections in the area of aid and presents them, in order to get the absolutely necessary debate that will make assistance better, and that we are getting closer. But then, of course, we can't deal with views such as that someone here would call for a plan economy in the world after an explanation where I explicitly said that we need strong government governance, but at the same time market-based economy, because that's what has proved to be working. I have not heard anyone in the debate who has said anything else. In the case of Norwegian business, I fully share Siv Jensen's view that it is very important to get Norwegian business more involved in the third world. That's also one of the reasons why I want to bet something more on Latin America, because Latin America is an area where Norwegian business is within quite a considerable scale, and where looking at the social responsibility of business can be one of the important things we do. It's e.g. a heavy two-sided ad in today's Evening Post that I ask people to take a look at, from Banan-Mathisen, where they go into their social responsibility in connection with a TV show that comes tonight. If they do what they say they're going to do in that ad, it's a very important contribution to the development of the world that I think we can stand together about here in the Storting. Nor is it the case that the countries which have had a formidable economic progress in East Asia have not received assistance. They got quite a lot of this assistance as a result of the American attitude during the Cold War, where there was support for anti-communist regimes. South Korea is an example of that. The aid flow into South Korea was gigantic, for these overall strategic reasons. The same was true of Thailand and many other East Asian countries. This was part of the reason they had so much economic progress. Let me comment briefly on some other issues. Waxdal pointed to a real problem, that our competence in terms of hydropower is about to disappear. We may not have enough, but we'll see what we can mobilize. In terms of oil and energy, the limiting factor for our oil and development program is if we have enough knowledge and experts to make available, but we're working on it. Gitmark drew up a couple of dictatorships in Africa, Zimbabwe and Eritrea, and we are fully sharing his concern about developments there. Let me finally say, in the words of Tørresdal, or Nordahl Grieg's words: if we do not solve these great, gigantic poverty problems in the world, 'there is a betrayal'. That's because we don't want enough, that we choose to do everything else instead. We're the generation that can do that, and we should do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-23.ana.ud1471e1116	I would like to begin by commending the representative, Siv Jensen, as Chairman of the Progress Party, for her participation in the debate on development policy. She's the only party leader who's done it today. I thought there was a reason to pay tribute to that. In addition to that, I share the views of the Council of State on the article. Because it's easy for us to take the Progress Party and the critical views they have, seriously. I can guarantee the representative Jensen that the representative Höglund is met with the greatest respect when it comes to the relevant objections that come, and they are part of the overall debate. But what happened to the representative Jensen was one way of referring to Norwegian aid, especially in Africa, as a total failure. I'm willing to stretch so far as to say that parts of him have clearly failed, but there are also a huge number of people who can tell about the help they've been given. We know that it would have been bad for some states if we hadn't been there. If we look at Norwegian society, is it that our administration, our bureaucracy, which has a hundred years tradition, is perfect? Do we never have scandals in our administration? Is it so that she is perfect? We had a late last night, as far as I registered. It's simply that making demands on developing countries that they already have the same level as us is unimaginable. So to build a strong state: initially, it may seem pointless to invest a lot of money in building a national audit, in building strong states, but that's what makes development aid work, and that the country itself can get things to work. Anyone who wants to see how things go with a country that doesn't have a country that works at all can look at Somalia. Somalia is the best example we have internationally, as I know, where the state collapses, and where the tribal system takes over. It is not desirable. Thus, actually, state-to-state assistance is also a very important part, although it is not always easiest to sell in public opinion. In the end, the Council of State claimed that I had a lot of desire to know what was going on in the budget, but I had some more challenges that he put in the same bag. One of them was that I wanted him to promise that he would be fast at the ball on all international issues, whether it's in the World Bank or there's other places, in accordance with what Hilde Frafjord Johnson was. The national part must not overshadow that part.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-23.ana.ud1471e1129	I asked for the floor because of something that Siv Jensen said. I think I quote her quite correctly when I say that it was like this: the party of progress is concerned that the whole world is going to have access to our prosperity development. What strikes you is how strongly it contrasts with, for example, The Christian People's Party approach and what Bjørg Tørresdal said, which in his intervention was concerned that development assistance had to a great extent to be about a better distribution of world resources. These are two widely differing reasonings. If we think that China should take part in our prosperity development with a car density that you see in Europe today, and recognize that environmental problems are so big now that they create climate change, we are facing global challenges that are completely insoluble. There are international reports that indicate that the meltdown of Greenland ice is much faster than thought, and only that will lead to a seven-metre rise in the world's oceans. What's interesting when you listen to the Progress Party is how to expose two of the biggest Achilles heels of that party. One is precisely about the aid policy and the lack of credibility of the party's willingness to help those countries that are most disadvantaged. The second is the lack of recognition that even our prosperity and the way we use it, today creates enormous global problems, with climate change. I myself have been to Himalayas and seen, among other things. how glaciers that existed ten years ago are now gone due to the meltdown. We could now also hear former Vice President Al Gore in Cannes warning of the consequences of climate change. Even the Bush government is now beginning to take inward that these are realities, while the Progress Party does not. As far as developments in other countries are concerned, it is therefore just important that the experience we are now making with regard to climate change leads to aid and development in those countries being such that the world can withstand that development over time. Therefore, the Progress Party in this area – if we do not take into account the environmental problems that are being created and that are man-made, and take them seriously – will not be able to appear credible in the challenges we face in terms of how we should increase our assistance. Because it must be through a global understanding that the world is losing if we do not change our consumption pattern, that we can provide assistance both in Europe, in order to get better out, and not least in third countries, in Asia, in Africa, in South America and elsewhere.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-23.ana.ud1471e1142	It is dangerous in today's parliamentary situation, but I still take the chance to distance myself a little from the Council of State when he points out that there was a need to invent the Progress Party. In my view, there is already a critical look at our aid policy. It is important that assistance control is institutionalised so that we can control where the money is going and that we really get out of it. Moreover, I would say that some of the so-called criticisms of the Progress Party are actually rhetorical, because one criticises a world that is not, and a policy that is not led, when one tries to present it as if someone is trying to impose on the world a plan economy, or when one tries to produce all the assistance that is failed and without effect, and not least when one claims that our aid money largely contributes to the financing of corruption. The truth is, there is one other thing. The question we have to ask is whether we believe assistance is useful or not. I'm 100 pst. I am sure that without the Norwegian aid we would have had a poorer value for many of the world's poor. With the policies of the Progress Party, there would be very many children in Africa who had not received vaccination or health care, especially many would not receive clean water or nutrition, and especially many would not receive education. It's also so that with these cuts would specialise many of those who today get a chance to live up, not do so. And when it comes to the burden of proof, unfortunately, Norway is not a typical example in the world. Unfortunately, the situation in most rich countries is such that the policy of the Progress Party, with the lack of assistance, is the main thing. Hence, if more people had been overreacting in the same way as Norway, more people would have had a better life. I think it is important to see that there are limitations, and that Norway difor should concentrate efforts where we have the most to contribute. Norway is today one of the richest countries in the world, and many believe that this is almost a law of nature. In my view, there are around the world many examples of countries that are at least as rich in natural resources as Norway, but where poverty is still total. Even in countries with oil activity twice as long as we do, one has not got the necessary progress. So I want to say that parts of the Norwegian wealth are primarily due to the fact that we have managed this in a reasonable way, and that we have had a good code. If we manage to export it to the outside world, I believe it can also help create better growing conditions for many of the world's poor children.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-23.ana.ud1471e1153	Rolf Terje Klungland has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-23.ana.ud1471e1156	That minute I'm going to use to ask some questions to the Progress Party. Is it the case that the Progress Party will wind up the state aid, or has the party president changed the programme to the Progress Party? Does the Progress Party believe that unhelp, aid, is plan economy? I have to say that the party president of the Progress Party had a shocking contribution in relation to consumption. I'm going to say that the party president doesn't know what she's talking about, but she's definitely okay with what she's doing. If it is the policy of the Advance Party that the Chinese should have the same consumption as we do in Norway, I actually understand the logic that the Advance Party will consume the oil billions as soon as possible, because then there will not be many generations that will be able to spend money in Norway at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-23.ana.ud1471e1165	I will first clarify a misunderstanding. I didn't criticize the Council of State for trying to push plan economy into the world. The representative Rolf Terje Klungland was very critical of market economy and liberalism, and that is what I tried to point out. So to Jon Lilletun and others who almost create the impression that the only way to pursue effective development policy is to let the poor countries of the world bear the burden through environmental policy. I don't think that's right, because this is a country far from knowing well-being and prosperity, which we've been able to develop over many decades by not necessarily focusing on the environment along the way. I don't see anything wrong in wanting Chinese and Africans the welfare development that we humans have enjoyed over many decades. And I do not understand that it is the poor countries of the world who are going to bear the burden through environmental measures, when they have more than enough other to contend with before they are near to achieving a level of well-being that we can at least say is decent given the poverty they live in. It is not that the Progress Party has not been concerned about how we can develop energy cooperation with China and other poor countries. That's exactly what we've been focusing on in many ways. Norway can export from its energy competence, environmental competence and technology competence precisely to facilitate better energy use and development in other parts of the world. And it's fine if we can contribute that competence both through business development and by other means. Nor is it as someone says, that the Progress Party is negative to all kinds of assistance. The Progress Party has supported vaccination programmes, training programmes and assistance to non-governmental organisations in its alternative budget. It's primarily because this is something that turns out to have a good effect, that reaches, and that makes a difference to very many millions of people in the world. And that's good. So even if we allow ourselves to have a critical look at the whole of aid and development policy, that doesn't mean we don't get along with that there are many positive single actions around. I would like to remind you that very many of them are actually driven by the efforts of the volunteer organisations, by the field work that is being done. And that's good. But I still think we need to have a critical debate about the tools we use, because they don't work, there's no point in continuing to give money.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-23.ana.ud1471e1178	I do not know how long we are going to extend the debate on whether the Progress Party should exist or not, but I see it that the Progress Party is bringing the debate to bear on some sensible criticism of the assistance. It is absolutely essential that we respond to this, point one, and, point two, also change aid, because there is truth in this criticism. On the other hand, I have not seen that the Progress Party has presented any of its own options for how to contribute to what the Olav Aksselsen is after, namely to get Africa's millions of poor out of poverty. Because it may be difficult to doubt that if that is the objective, there is a need not only for a significantly better policy, but also for more and better assistance, not much less assistance, and I welcome a further debate on these matters. As I said, the Progress Party is useful as a critic, but it would be very dangerous if they had the power to implement their programme, as the situation is now. But it's 3 years until the next big shot, so we can make a reasonable contribution to that discussion. Then I agree with Siv Jensen on an important point, whether it's almost to hold up a moralistic tab and say that every other country in the world should be denied what we've got. I didn't want to travel around with that message. No one's going to see me travel to China to tell me that it's deadly that the Chinese get cars while we're going to keep ours. There are thousands of new cars coming out on the road in Beijing City every day. There are 300000–400000 in one city per. years. But unless we implement significant and drastic reductions in our consumption, we have no basis for demanding it from others. So we have to look at our own consumption pattern, but above all we have to look at how we can bring about a technological change and a more sensible policy overall in the world where collective solutions obviously have to be at the centre, not just private carism. Jon Lilletun challenged me to be fast at the ball, as Hilde Frafjord Johnson was, in the international forum. Yes, I will try to be. Let me give you an example of what we have done: some non-governmental organisations committed to indigenous peoples in Congo asked us to address the negative effects of the forest programmes in the World Bank. We got the Nordic Group to abstain, which on a Norwegian scale is a very careful reaction, but which is so rare in the World Bank that this was really noticed. This has led the World Bank to put people to study these programs, go through them again, and they have entered into a dialogue with the organizations that were critical. The visit we had from the World Bank in Oslo yesterday must be seen in part in the light of just that vote. This is an example that we want to be fast on the ball. In the case of illegitimate debt, I want to look at the setting we get from the Joint Committee before I take a position on it. Thank you for a constructive and good debate. It became a little temperature at the end, but it was probably just of the good.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-23.ana.ud1471e1192	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-23.ana.ud1471e1206	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 85 minutes and that speaking time be organised in this way in the groups: Work Party 30 minutes, Progress Party 20 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes and Left 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of up to five lines with replies from members of the Government and three lines with replies from the main speakers of each group within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-23.ana.ud1471e1217	First of all, I would like to thank the Committee on the Good Cooperation we have had in the work on the police report. In particular, I am pleased that a unanimous committee agrees that we should have a close and strong police force with services across the country, that the security of society is a welfare issue and therefore a public responsibility, and that the aim is to prevent better, clarify more, respond faster and rehabilitate better. A broad political consensus on these key points is important in order to ensure the legitimacy and trust of the police upon which the establishment depends in order to perform its functions. I also give tribute to the organisations that have contributed good and constructive input to the hearing. The police role message, which we are discussing today, was presented in due course by the Bondevik II government. The Committee endorses the main lines of the Communication. What kind of police do we want? That was the central question raised by the Police Role Committee when they were mandated to review the tasks of the police. In 1987, the sample ended its work and defined 10 basic principles for the Norwegian police. These principles are primarily an expression of the basic values to be administered by the police, but they also provide directions for the organisation of the police, the behaviour of the police and the means and methods to be used by the police. These are good principles for the organisation of Norwegian police, but social development and change in the image of crime have challenged today's police role. That is why today's debate on how the EEA should develop further is important. The first, and perhaps most important, principle is that the police should reflect the ideals of society. Both proactively and reactively, the police are to combat assaults on the lives, health or property of others — or the community. This should be based on the democratic and humanistic ideals upon which our society and our system of governance are built. This is a big demand for the police. I choose to interpret the high trust that people in Norway have in the police, as an expression that the police live up to these expectations. When dealing with such a matter as this, I think it is important to recognise the uniqueness of the Norwegian police model and the level of knowledge and competence that the Norwegian police have compared to the police in other countries. We have a world-class police training that is being further developed and adapted to the new demands of a more complex society. The next basic principle is that the police should be decentralised. We're going to have a close and strong police force with lenghts and service stations all over the country, so we're going to make sure the population is as accessible as possible. Through a local anchoring, we increase the security of people, and this was also one of the main objectives of the police reform. Furthermore, it says that the police must be a unit police force, and that the police must be a generalist. The fact that we have a unit police force means that the police tasks are collected within the same organization. This is a unique organization of police action. The advantage of the Norwegian model is that we have better use of the expertise at all levels of the police, which provides a resource-efficient and appropriate organisation. One important prerequisite for us to have both a decentralised police force and a unit police force is that the politician is a generalist. If we are to ensure that police training is a generalist training, we must also ensure good recruitment from all over the country. This is an important prerequisite for ensuring adequate access and high quality for future police personnel. The police force should have good representation of both sexes, and we must ensure that people living in Norway, but with a cultural background different from Norwegian, become a natural part of the police force. The most likely major change in the crime scene in recent years is globalisation and internationalisation. A globalised world is characterised by the rapid and extensive flow of goods, capital, persons, information and, consequently, crime. Organized criminal networks operate in several countries and face new challenges locally as well as centrally. Prostitution in Tana, or at Karl Johan, assault pictures of children on pedophiles for pedophiles in Tromsø, or mini-bank fraud in Stavanger, show that organized crime occurs in our own local communities. This calls for the development of police competence, resources and methods so that the police can be at the forefront of the development of crime. Police must give priority to combating organised crime. Great and fast money is the main driver of all organised criminal activities. Therefore, it is essential to go for the money that finances and runs the business. An overall committee stresses the need to step up efforts to combat economic crime and the research and administrative work to detect the black economy, including: Whitewashing, must be reinforced. Police must be given greater opportunities to cooperate across borders and efforts must be made to limit the effects of obstacles to international crime prevention, such as differences in legal systems, legislation and non-delivery agreements. A position of police and officers with a civil character solves their tasks with minimal use of power. At the same time, there must be room for clearer use of power when needed, faced with robbers and better organised criminals. Therefore, Stortinget has underlined that the police should have the opportunity to have weapons available in given situations, so-called forward storage. The Police Directorate must also monitor police districts linked to investment in protective equipment and means of targeting in order to ensure the security of police personnel in sharp assignments. In addition to combating organised crime, the police are also required to reduce everyday crime. These are challenges that require different approaches but need to be addressed within the same organisation. The Committee stresses the need for police to give priority to prevention. Police must meet young people at school and in leisure; police must be present in the city centres on a weekend, and cooperation with child protection must be improved. In Oslo, a separate street patrol has been set up that specifically works against young addicts and young criminals. The goal is to stop an incipient criminal racetrack, and the unit cooperates closely, among other things. with the Child Restraint Guard. In the first two months of 2006, hundreds of child protection concerns were raised from the street patrol. This is a good example of the police's important prevention work. The Committee also wishes to develop new methods and target criteria for crime prevention to give this work a higher priority. Crime is often localised, and police prevention, investigation, prosecution and prosecution are mainly local. The Committee therefore calls for the municipalities, in cooperation with the police, to establish police councils so that municipalities and police can jointly develop prevention strategies and respond actively if they consider it necessary. This is also a follow-up to a proposal promoted by the Police Union in the context of its communication. I started my speech by referring to the important and fundamental work that the Police Role Committee did in defining what kind of police we're going to have in Norway. It was then Minister of Justice Inger Louise Valle who set up the Police Committee and gave it its mandate. That's why I think it's appropriate to dedicate a few words just to Inger Louise Valle – on a day like today, in a debate like this. It was with sadness that we received the message that Valle has gone away. The most important thing she left behind in justice policy was the ability to see that crime most often has a cause, and that the best way to combat crime is through prevention. The society we create also creates the crime we get. That is why she took the initiative of the Crime Prevention Council, which in turn is the forerunner of the SLT projects and now the police councils, which we are adopting today, are to be established in the municipalities. She was a first-time woman when it came to understanding that crime should be brought to life, not just to detain people, you have to rehabilitate them and give their lives a different content. ‘Where has it been by Inger Louise Valle?’ asks the poet Odd Børretzen in his wise ‘Anorakkene’ and sings about the Minister of Justice who thought there was other means against crime than to carry people inside the square reinforced concrete. Inger Louise Valle introduced criminal policy into a wider social context. It was new, and it was controversial. She met strong counter-forces, but today we see that her ideas have been implemented in Norwegian justice policy. She was also concerned that there must be a whole chain of criminal proceedings, and that the measures we are taking to combat crime must be based on knowledge and humanism, the principles on which we build democracy and legal certainty. Therefore I will conclude with a poem by Arne Garborg, which Inger Louise Valle quotes in his autobiography: "But we shall know, and hope, that the spirit may be won on the troll at last, and white on the wolf's will."
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-23.ana.ud1471e1275	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-23.ana.ud1471e1278	I want to ask the representative Bjørnflaten a simple question. I want to know what misappropriations the current Minister of Justice made a year ago, when he and the Labour Party voted against the proposal to set up the Police Council. I would like to hear what is the reason why the Workers' Party is turning around in relation to previous policies.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-23.ana.ud1471e1285	It is completely wrong to say that the Labour Party has turned around in terms of the police council. In its time, the Labour Party promoted a proposal in the Municipal Committee to consider how a system of police councils can be put in place in the municipalities – a proposal that the Stortinget has subsequently adopted and which we follow up today by re-adopting the establishment of police councils in the individual municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-23.ana.ud1471e1290	In today's evening post, the chairman of the Justice Committee, Bjørnflaten, writes: ‘The red-green majority will intensify the work against cynical backers for trafficking’. I believe that if we go out at night in this city – from the building we are now in – we can see with the naked eye that the activity that it has been a bit of earlier is growing almost from day to day. We're hearing about an Oslo police calling for criminalisation -- we can almost get the impression that they've abdicated. In Trondheim, on the other hand, the matter has been attacked in a significantly different way. I want the representative Bjørnflaten to elaborate on what she means by intensification. In that case, does it mean that the action of the Oslo Police will assume a far more active character, that they will approach this in a more active way than they have now?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-23.ana.ud1471e1302	It would have been easy to answer only yes to the question from the representative Aspaker – I believe the police will do so. In its comments, the Committee is very clear that police action to combat trafficking needs to be intensified. Today, the police have a code both to show away people who are disturbing order and to be more active in intervening in the rear so as to prevent trafficking, which is the really serious problem. I want the police more actively to use the law that exists today, and I understand that the committee too wants it, through the unanimity that emerges from the vote. Trafficking is a very serious problem – perhaps one of the most cynical forms of organized crime we see. It is organised trafficking in human beings and it is very important that the police actively combat this type of trafficking in human beings.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-23.ana.ud1471e1313	In the police role report, there are many good new recordings, and the committee is mainly gathered about them. As Arne Johannessen, the head of the Police Union, has often pointed out, things have a cost. In the majority vote, it is suggested that it should be returned to the annual budgets – that is how the Stortinge manages this. It's okay in itself, but wouldn't it have been neat that more people here had said something more about bets and made clear what kind of wishes you have in terms of financial strengthening – more than good intentions and, I had almost said, hope for good improvement?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-23.ana.ud1471e1320	I think the approach of the Progress Party to the economy of the police is being very simplified. I don't think we can measure police force just based on how much money we spend on the police. In that sense, the red-green government has really made a leap in relation to the Bondevik government. We've added 130 million. kr in the year's budget for strengthening the police. Combating crime is being done in many more areas than just through increased funding to the police. One important field is, for example: the protection of children. I have registered that the Progress Party wants to cut funds for this. I think that will have very unfortunate effects in terms of preventing crime. The Progress Party wants to cut funds for integration. It will also have very negative effects on crime. And – not least – if the alcohol policy of the Advance Party were to be fully implemented, I don't think we would have seen anything that would have given a stronger increase in crime in this country. So I'll encourage the Progress Party to look a little bit more holistic at that piece.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-23.ana.ud1471e1327	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-23.ana.ud1471e1331	There is no doubt that the debate that is about to take place in the Chamber now is important. Police are one of the most important and special tools society has, because, among other things, they have. has the right to exercise power over individuals. In this way, the police have a claim to have a specific focus on themselves, and we as legislators are obliged to ensure that the law is sensible, well-functioning and good, both in terms of the job we expect the police to do, and not least in terms of the needs of society. In this way, this message is important. As the representative of the Bjørnflaten was in the Chamber, it is good to see that the Committee is largely in agreement. You have a base and a bottom line that you essentially agree on, and that's a quality. It is important to take care of it here, because that means that if the political majority is to change, a political line towards the police is to be pursued. At least I think I'm good. There has been a broad and good debate in the Committee. There have been discussions at many different levels, but mainly – as I said – they have been concluded jointly. The challenge will be: will you be able to follow up on this financially? Although the representative Bjørnflaten points out that money is not everything, money, funds, is a significant factor in doing something. If there's no money, it doesn't use good words – it doesn't help when you need people to move out. I have read with interest today about an alleged crisis in Hedmark where there is a lack of resources and jobs are available. I don't know if the police in Hedmark are happy to hear that money isn't everything. When people get help and you expect the police to move out, the police have to have the framework and the economy to do so. At the same time, I think the committee can agree on and be proud that Norwegian police have an incredible number of qualities. We have a police force that we can be proud of, and that does a very good job. There are many facets here. Norwegian police, who are involved and build functioning democracies abroad, are one example. For example: Afghanistan is a Norwegian police force and does a good job. The same applies to the system of Nordic liaison officers working outside and contributing to prevention. They prevent possible crime in this country while at the same time safeguarding and demonstrating the quality of, among other things, Norwegian police. I think that's important, because it has something to do with reputation -- it shows some of the qualities that police officers have acquired when they're going to play their role internationally. Fortunately, Norway is part of other organisations that fight crime internationally, for example: Europol and Interpol, and crime, although local, are also cross-border in many respects. Then it doesn't benefit to sit alone in his police station, in his town, in his county, in his country. Then we have to work together. Only by working together can we prevent crime from increasing, and only by standing together will we be able to do so in the best possible manner. I think it is good to be proud of the job done, and I think the message will help to substantiate this piece. At the same time, there is no doubt that there are also major challenges to the police role, not least in the relationship between police and psychiatry. There we have a grey zone that has been discussing in this hall for decades, and we are still struggling to find optimal solutions. The police feel, I think, in many ways uncomfortable with some things they have to attend, while the psychiatrist has a different view of his role than the police may have of what they think the psychiatrist should have done. This is an intersection which I hope the Minister of Justice will continue to address, and which I am sure the Justice Committee and the Stortinget will be concerned about. Another dilemma for us is the relationship with drugs — legal drugs and the consequences of their use and, in particular, illegal drugs and how to deal with them. For the Progress Party, it is important to show that we are betting on the police. For us, the police are one of the most important – and perhaps the best – tools for preventing crime. Visible police are undoubtedly literally a slowdown in many contexts. We think it's important to have such an approach, among other things. Because, of course, you can say that people don't have to be insecure, but you can't take away a feeling of insecurity. It's possible that it's irrational to be insecure, but it's a feeling that people have, and we have to respect that. Another thing the Progress Party has pointed out in this case is that we want to find out a possible demand for a call-out time for the police. It is the case that other agencies have a call-out claim on them, but the police do not. Of course, it has to be in relation to geography and population composition, and to the possibilities of accidents and other incidents in which the police should contribute. But at least we should investigate, to see the contexts and consequences of police and economics. If I do not think we are evading a responsibility that, in my opinion, it is quite clear that we are going to take. Another part of this debate is police security. On a regular basis, events show that senior police officers may not feel well enough cared for, be legal or in relation to personal protective equipment. If we want a police officer to take the lead when it goes down as bad as it is, we have to show that they have a back cover with us. The Storting must then take this responsibility by ensuring that they have a law that enables the police to stand up and know that they have coverage for what they are doing, and that they do not least get the best of protective equipment. We have an economy that makes Norway unquestionably the best police in the world. The question is, do we? At my discretion and that of the Progress Party, we have a lot to go on. Another thing that we also have to keep seeing is the relationship between the defense and the police. Here, too, there are grey areas and things that should be taken into account at my discretion to ensure that the day we need them, the guidelines and conditions should be clarified. Another factor is the relationship between police and private actors. The majority government has now decided to wind up the testing procedure with a private carrier for the transport of prisoners and believes that it should be a public task. I respect it, but I don't necessarily think it's a good resource use to do it this way. But it's politically determined, and of course we're going to bend to it. But I have to say that the TV 2 headline about people who drove food packages from a police chamber and up to a prison, I don't think I gave any homage to the police who do the job. And I don't think they feel very comfortable with that. We don't want to have it like that. We want a review to be carried out and the police to take a clean police operation. Then others can help relieve the police where it is reasonable and reasonable. As far as police reform is concerned, I also think it must be timely to say a few words about it – as the previous major discussion of the police in Norway. The intention of it was good. The question is whether you feel that it has taken place. If you ask the police management, I think it'll be good fun. We ask the audience, I think we'll get a completely different answer. The audience feels that what was said about the police reform has not been delivered afterwards. And it'll be a challenge for us, since some of the main interest back then was a more visible police, a more service-minded police. I think people today feel that you get to closed doors much more often than to open doors, and that's a challenge for all of us. Everyday crime, on which the committee leader was involved, is another recurring problem. Of course, it's not the worst crime in terms of severity, but it's perhaps the most annoying. Getting their home invaded by others, doing something with people. If someone's troubling your private sphere, I think you're feeling bad. Although it may be minimal that has been taken or stolen, we have to do something about it. Here we certainly have a job to do. So this means that there are no simple answers, and that what is in the field of justice policy is very complex. But if we're going to have a police officer doing the things we expect them to do, we have to make sure that the resource base is there. If not, this will only be a wish for a fine future for the Norwegian police, and to make the best of the situation. I don't think they deserve that. So here we have a lot to do. At my discretion, it must be that what the police are going to have is clear political clarifications. They need to know where the law is and where the Stortinget is. They have to, and they're obliged to, trust the population if they're to do their job, and they have to have a law that works well in relation to what we want them to do. It would have been tempting to refer to Section 1 of the Police Act by asking questions about whether it is being fulfilled today, and – in its extension – whether the appropriations are large enough to satisfy, among other things. This paragraph of the Police Act. Sometimes it feels quite clear that there is a difference between Section 1 and the reality that people experience, and the feedback they get from people. So I think there's one thing we have to dry out: it's being critical of the way you use the funds. Because there can't be any point in throwing good money after bad money. So when we are going to strengthen the police, we have to make sure that the funds are used in a good and proper way, because only it will serve the fight against crime in the utmost consequence. Finally, I would like to raise the proposal of the Advance Party. At the same time, I would like to inform you that the Progress Party will support the proposal of the Left and the proposal of the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-23.ana.ud1471e1377	The representative Jan Arild Ellingsen has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-23.ana.ud1471e1382	Norway probably has one of the world’s best police training courses, and a unanimous committee says that this is necessary to maintain the generalist principle. Therefore, it is with wonder that I have read the special comments of the Progress Party on what kind of police training we are going to have in Norway. On the one hand, the Progress Party says that you want a good basic education, but that it ‘however, it may be a question of whether higher education is needed to ‘relieve filling’ on weekends.’ On the other hand, it appears that the training does not provide sufficient competence when the Progress Party states that: ‘It is doubtful that three years of law school will qualify you to be a computer engineer, accountant, lawyer, chemist, lab engineer, etc.’. So, as I understand it – in brackets – it takes five years of university education to take the law. Can the representative of Ellingen clarify what kind of education the Progress Party believes the police in Norway should have so that we continue to have one of the world's best basic training courses for policemen?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-23.ana.ud1471e1399	I thank you for the question. I think it was timely. It must be such that there is an ongoing process of quality of the content of education. What we've pointed out is some paradoxes. By doing so, of course, we believe that there might have been a need for a graduated education, for example. in relation to what the representative had in mind – to ease flattening. I don't think you need a three-year high school education to do that. I think maybe you don't need it to sit on guard in a thinghouse, or to run a food package from point A to point B. What we do by claiming these things is to show that we dare to take the debate on this. We haven't locked up that today's system is the best. We dare to challenge it and are willing to take the debate on it further.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-23.ana.ud1471e1408	An interesting political alliance has seen today's light in the form that the Progress Party and SV have met in a so far new and surprising way. In the notes, the Progress Party, with a broad pen, states that the most important thing is a rapid reaction, that the content of the sentence is not so dangerous to young offenders. I could imagine asking the Progress Party about the background because it is now thought that there is not so much danger in a reaction where you take seriously the need for society and a victim, for example, of gross violence. What's the reason for this? And not least, I would like to ask whether this new attitude towards crime that the Progress Party warns should also apply to immigrant youth participating in, for example. gang crime. In that case, the party's partnership with SV will not only be interesting, but almost a judicial revolution.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-23.ana.ud1471e1415	Of course, you can read a comment in many ways, and it's the representative Dahl who's free to do it. What has been important to us, of course, is that we are followers of the use of conflict councils where that makes sense. This does not mean that a blank authorisation is given to enable someone to implement and use conflict advice in any context at his own discretion. If the representative Dahl had read the attitude to the new penal code, the general part, he would have seen the discussion that was going on there. At the same time, of course, I have no problem accepting and admitting that for us a quick response is also important. Where there is talk of young offenders and it makes sense to do so, we should be able to use a reaction like this. conflict advice.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-23.ana.ud1471e1424	The Ellings noted that police are an extremely important factor in prevention. There is an SV in agreement with Ellingsin regarding secondary prevention. As far as primary prevention is concerned, it is about facilitating a society where people initially do not commit criminal acts, not depending on the presence of the police to prevent criminal acts. Sees Ellingsen, for example. the use of alcohol, drugs, in a society — and the liberalisation of its use — also affect the nature of criminal offences committed? Among other things, very many people who are punishing have a dependency on drugs — does he see that the design of alcohol policy has something to say to prevent criminal acts from being committed?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-23.ana.ud1471e1431	To the representative of Ballo, I should like to say in the first place: Yes, absolutely – of course, there is a connection in things. I think a main difference here is that the Progress Party actually accepts that difference and has a clear awareness of the fact that with our alcohol policy it is possible that consumption will rise. But it should worry the representative Ballo just as much about the smuggling that is happening today, which means you have a grey zone that you don't have an overview of at all. With a lower alcohol tax system, much more of this would have been visible, and one might have controlled it in a much better way than with the current system. Today there is a massive smuggling to Norway. This is due, inter alia, to: a level of charges that is more about getting money into the treasury for the red-greens than actually fighting a type of crime that is going on in a big way.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-23.ana.ud1471e1438	That's the line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-23.ana.ud1471e1441	On behalf of the Committee, the rapporteur has presented key challenges to the police in a good way. The police are dealing with people, the police are engaging people. The police, at my discretion, have also become better at communicating with people. The police's importance to people's security in everyday life is not disputed. That is why we also have clear expectations about the presence and ability of the police to act when crime is committed. Many are rightly concerned about and are calling for a more visible police force. On the right, we will stress the importance of paying attention to this aspect in the ongoing evaluation of police reform. The right is concerned with the further development of the Police and Len’s seat on the basis of a long tradition of locally anchored service and the strength inherent in the in-depth knowledge of the community. Increasing mobility has led to changes in the pattern of residence, and people’s holiday and leisure habits present new challenges related to variations in the population at different times of the year. The right-wing believe that the staff of the police must have a flexibility that captures great seasonal fluctuations in the population, whether we talk about the summer in the South or the winter in Hallingdal. We can't expect local police and surveyors to be able to deal with a time-lapse of the population without delay. This is why the Right calls for a renewed approach to manning, so that both local and guest communities can have the security of effective police control in such situations. When all parties agree to ask the government to investigate the response time for the police, it happens in recognition that the time it takes for the police to come may be critical of life and health at stake. The right considers it appropriate to include the severity, geography and time of the event in the assessment of reasonable response time. Such considerations must be taken into account in the allocation of resources. Long distances in the districts are a complicating factor that must also be taken into account. Rapid social development is increasingly demanding the level of competence of the police. The ambition must always be that the police should be ahead of the evolution of crime. This is not least the case in the technological field, where crime is increasingly taking new and more serious forms. It confronts us with similar challenges in relation to police methodology. We must be very aware of where the limits of legal methods go. An up-to-date police and officers' seat in this field will ultimately be crucial for the legal certainty of the individual. The treatment of the specific part of the penal code next year is met by the right and is considered to be a natural reassessment of methods against the criminal framework and the nature of the offence. The right will have a specific assessment of child abuse and how the police from their point of view can help to strengthen the legal position of the child. In the right, it is now important to focus attention on the victim’s situation because the one-sided justice sector has focused on the perpetrator. The police are at the forefront of meeting and caring for people who are often in a very vulnerable situation, whether adults or children who are victims of crime. The Committee's investigation contains a series of proposals to strengthen the position of the deprived and the survivors in criminal matters. A separate working group shall further assess more practical aspects of the meeting of the relatives and the victim with the police and the judiciary. Since this is a problem for many people, the Right assumes that the Minister of Justice will give this issue a high priority and ensure that the Stortinget gets a case on the various proposals as soon as possible, in order to facilitate the situation of the victims and their relatives in meeting with the police and the judiciary. Police have prevention as one of their most central tasks. Children and young people are a particularly important group. The goal is to keep the youngest away from crime and capture and reverse those who are about to start a criminal racetrack. The reaction of society must be rapid and clear. Many municipalities have successfully adopted the SLT model and established commitment cooperation with the police and other actors in the local environment. The intention is obvious: to prevent better and to help children and young people who need it. The proposal for a Police Council in all municipalities needs to be seen as a further development of SLT cooperation and not as a complement to this. In order to ensure the future impact of the police, it is necessary to provide even better opportunities for leadership development and empowerment in the police action. Failure to apply for the Police College combined with greater withdrawal from the police force in the years to come makes it necessary to step up efforts to ensure that the police force is newly recruited. It is a fact that parts of District Norway are already struggling to occupy vacant positions. Then it is frustrating to experience that the Police Directorate has stopped the popular scholarship scheme initiated by the West-Finnmark police district for second-year police students. The right is satisfied that an overall committee is now still asking the Government to investigate various recruitment tools. We feel that it is urgent to get in place and clarify what tools police districts can use for recruitment purposes. The police's ability to act is also a matter of providing the police with resources, equipment and methods that match the evolution of society and crime. The fight against organised crime, child pornography, online abuse of children and money laundering from criminal acts imposes high demands on a competent police in terms of equipment and knowledge, not least on the new media. The basic and continuing training of the police must be constantly adapted to the new needs. Professional research efforts need to be stepped up, and the results of the research — and that is important — need to be disseminated in order to make use of such new knowledge. Oslo is the country's foremost face outwards, and the city should be seen as safe to live in. Increased anti-terrorism efforts must not overshadow Oslo police duties related to prevention, combating everyday crime and organised crime with Oslo as an entrance sport. On the right, the town councillor's concern about the development of the streetscape in Oslo is shared. Close cooperation between the municipality and the police is required here. In order to prevent the emergence of begging, aggressive prostitution, trafficking in human beings and other undesirable activities, the Right-wing proposal of the City Council supports the provision of police access under the Police Regulations to deport persons who are significantly shy and aggressive towards others. Police in our largest cities must be able to give priority to efforts against organized trafficking in human beings and begging. The Oslo Police must, just as in Trondheim, use resources to take the backers to stop the replacement of an increasing number of women. This is about human dignity, and we cannot sit still and just accept that the problem in Oslo is increasing to an extent. At least that's how it feels. In different contexts, the right has been concerned about how best to use police resources. This means that we will allow others to take over tasks that do not require police authorities for as long as the execution of the tasks remains under police control. The use of resources in the police for transportation to and from prison is unpleasantly high if we think about what kind of alternative use we could have of this resource. Furthermore, the right has addressed an assessment of whether different police tasks should lead to more differentiated education in Norway. In the future, in the event of a failure of recruitment, it may be an instrument to increase access to personnel more quickly. The right has also referred to the voluntary police system, as we see in England and the Netherlands. Here at home, the Night Roads are a well-known phenomenon, and the question is whether there may be several similar activities in which ordinary citizens can be involved and engaged to contribute to increased security in our home environment. Last but not least, the Right Party and the Advance Party have pointed to the plans to establish a well-educated and equipped national police reserve of 2000 teams. This could constitute a significant resource that can be deployed and strengthened by the police in certain situations. I have noticed with some wonder that the government parties have not commented on the police reserve at all, and are calling for the position of these parties. As the setting now exists, this can be interpreted as meaning that the red-greens will simply drop a continuation and bet on the police reserve. Finally, I would like to say that the Right will support the proposal by the Left and the proposal by the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-23.ana.ud1471e1476	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-23.ana.ud1471e1479	The right is to know when they start talking about privatisation. It's probably good for those who are right-wing people that they recognize themselves. But does the representative Aspaker at all have no objection that rich people can buy an extra round of research, where not only is it focused on getting all the facts and both sides of a case, but where one pays to get what is beneficial in his particular case? Does Right really want a society where the wallet is the one that decides whether to get security, or should it be a public responsibility? Where does the right limit actually go when it concerns public authorities' exercise of power?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-23.ana.ud1471e1486	I would like to stress what I said, that when we intend to leave certain types of tasks within the police to others, it is a prerequisite that these should be subject to police control. So it's not like we're going to give up the obvious responsibility that the public must have for this kind of problem solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-23.ana.ud1471e1491	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-23.ana.ud1471e1494	I remember from my childhood the gentleman who is built perhaps the most important and most significant individual. If I think back to when I was seven-eight years old, I won't be able to remember the name of the rapporteur that time, but I remember the name of the gentleman. His name was Trygve Schanche. It was a legitimate but fair freeman, who was not allowed to go out with, and who was first seen in the train on May 1st and May 17th, when he was wearing his uniform. I think that in a lot of municipalities in Norway, it's still the case that the gentleman has a key role to play, and you see it as important that there is a borrower. At the same time, we see that from the days of the war there has been a progressive development in society. More and more live in cities, and fewer and fewer live in rural areas. The police tasks change character as a consequence of this, both because the population lives elsewhere than before, and because the population is much more complex. Through immigration and through different cultures, we experience that the picture is changing not only in Norway but also in other countries, and this also changes police duties. This means that new methods are needed to combat crime, and that the police need other types of resources to do the same. Nevertheless, most criminal acts still take place locally and are committed by people who are anchored in the community where the crime is committed. This means that the role of the police remains important. What is also important to emphasise is that precisely because the police have a local anchoring, they acquire knowledge locally. When a crime has occurred, they often, or at least suspect, who may have committed it, and the circumstances surrounding it. Often, crime can also be prevented, precisely because you see a pattern through knowledge of a community. At the same time, we also see that recruitment of police officers has become more difficult especially in smaller communities. There are several challenges involved. We see that it can be difficult for people who come from a community to return and work in the same community – perhaps just because you experience being alone in a small community. There's going to be a lot of pressure on guards, and fewer sharing of tasks. This is why it is important to look at the tools also in the training of police personnel at the Police College, and ways to manage recruiting personnel. An overall committee has also underlined the need to look at the university study and on a state-based recruitment basis. This can contribute both through positive instruments and through the post-study binding time, which may have a spatially balanced effect. It may also be important to look at tools at the end of the study, so that the individual municipality is not alone, that different municipalities compete with each other, or that different police districts compete with each other to recruit the same persons. Health care experience shows that it seems unlucky. You can then get a payroll where the individual police districts come out unluckily. This is why it is important to look ahead – it is a state task to ensure that the instruments are targeted and that they are geographically balanced. What is also important in a new era is to look at the work that the police are doing locally in a wider perspective than just the local. We know that one reason for not being able to recruit locally is that some people will experience the tasks that were so limited that they would rather apply to a large police district, where they could have other tasks. However, it is possible to counter this by assigning different tasks in different districts or local offices — tasks that can be extended beyond that office. This could be done, for example, by: be specialised in combating crime on the Internet. Here we are facing a number of challenges, whether economic crime, or, as some people have done, organised, international activities with prostitution, trafficking, etc., where we see today that the competence of the police, at least in some areas, can be inadequate. It gives us a challenge both in terms of higher education, and in terms of putting into practice the competences that someone has, or ensuring them additional competence afterwards. It is therefore a good thing that the Committee as a whole has just pointed out that there should be both opportunities for differentiated tasks for police officers around Norway, and that the whole education of the police higher education system should be looked at, given the need to bring in the necessary knowledge of Internet-based crime. Another theme on which the Committee has been concerned is the question of response time. All parties, except the Advance Party, have underlined the importance of a fair match between the time the police use to move out to a place when it is necessary and the event that has taken place. At the same time, the majority of the Committee has stressed that having a fixed response time, regardless of the pattern of residence, would be unfortunate. It is obvious to most people that if you had the same response time, for example. to Bear Island as to the central Oslo area, there would be quite baroque impacts on resource use, which could not be defended. However, it is important to review the response time. The Committee has asked for such a review under the direction of the Ministry, and looks forward to its return during the next enlargement period. The interaction between police and health services is important, and in the field of mental health protection we see that the police need to be used in a number of cases, especially where there may be a risk of violence because people are mentally unbalanced. At the same time, there are many examples of police intervention as if they were to have a health professional competence, rather than health professionals making the assessments. There is an unfortunate development pointed out by the Committee and it is therefore important to review the use of police resources in order to assist health professionals and not take over the role of health professionals. It'll be a review of it, which we look forward to getting back. Many of the crimes committed, especially in the case of acts of violence, are unfortunately also committed among people who know each other from the past. We see that there is, in part, considerable violence also in some homes. As of 1 July 2002, a system of family violence coordinators has been established in each of the 27 police districts of the country, and in many places these have worked well. Nevertheless, we see that there are great geographical differences, and it is important to get that system across the country. The Committee has therefore asked the Ministry of Justice to identify the situation of family violence coordinators in the various police districts and to consider measures to strengthen the system where it does not function properly. The Committee has also pointed out that the Vestfold model has been an example of a well-functioning model that is likely to be recovered elsewhere in the country. Then I want to point out a situation in which we see that the police need to contribute more and more, namely the natural disasters that are now occurring with increasing frequency. I remember reading the report after the disaster on Christmas 2, 2004, related to the situation in Germany. There, a coordination centre was set up very quickly, involving police services, and already the same night, that is, on December 26, 2004, local officers/policemen were around small towns in Germany, informing relatives who had lost some of their way away from Thailand. We know that in Norway this worked at a very close level of satisfaction. The reason for this can't be with the police, but more so in the way you organized it centrally. At the same time, this illustrates the key role often played by the police in the communities, both to prevent more people being affected by the disaster itself, in the case of natural disasters in Norway, and to ensure that the information is correctly presented to the relatives in a way that helps to relieve their burden once the disaster has occurred. Finally, I want to commend the case rapporteur for her contributions – she came into much more conditions than I have had time for in this post – not least because she pulled out Inger Louise Valle. I must say that I remember very well the period when Inger Louise Valle was Minister of Justice. She is an example of how by setting a new type of agenda that focused on humanism, a politician was able to change Norwegian justice policy in a way that was remembered with warmth and joy, so many years after she was Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-23.ana.ud1471e1526	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-23.ana.ud1471e1529	I want to take a small note that SV has in the setting. SV indicates that: ‘police spends a lot of resources on the transport of custody prisoners for legal, medical and other representations and transport. The majority therefore consider it important to look at alternative public solutions to free the police of resources for priority police tasks.’ Why does SV want everything on death and life to be public? Can't you use Securitas, a private company, or other companies, to drive prisoners back and forth? So one would notice here that this is going to be public and not private. Is it not really the intention to free resources, so that the police can carry out the priority tasks of society?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-23.ana.ud1471e1541	I must first say that I look forward with pleasure to the day that the quote could be correct, namely that SV sits by a simple majority. But we don't. We form part of the majority that has written this comment, and we fully support it. The idea behind the comment is that as sensitive things as arresting people or transporting them against their will, must be a public responsibility. At the moment you also leave it to private people, it can get a number of unfortunate results, not least in terms of privacy. We trust that the police – and, for that matter, also health professionals or other professionals employed by the public sector – can ensure this privacy through the training they receive, or that, if privacy is not ensured, they can correct it in a way that is more reliable than putting such things on the market, for example, at the risk of having too few personnel and under-trained personnel to perform the very sensitive tasks properly.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-23.ana.ud1471e1546	A unanimous committee is extremely positive to the so-called Hammerfest model in the Vest-Finnmark police district, where students are paid for the second academic year towards a two-year commitment period in the police district after completion of education. Everyone agrees that this is a good example of a positive district action, building competence in the police action, on which Ballo was involved. But this praise fits very well with the general rule of politics, namely that you tend to hear the most beautiful words only when someone has left, or preferably gone away. This unanimous remark is, in fact, a necrologer of a project that was recently closed down. On the basis of the horn music that we all have in our breasts in relation to this project, which the government parties have also chosen to support verbally – when can the representative Ballo promise that this will come into place again, after it was almost without warning removed to the students' great surprise?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-23.ana.ud1471e1551	The combination of necrolog and horn music scrambles a little in my ears. We have to look forward here, and the comment points forward. What we have underlined is that we should get to grips with the recruitment – not least in my own county, Finnmark – in such a way that we can help to get police officers to the districts. Then we have drawn out the model that was used in West Finland as a good model. But what's important to emphasise is that you don't have to leave individual police districts alone to develop these models. As I was in my main post, you have to avoid a situation where you turn up wages or use tools to compete with each other. It should be coordinated by the state, and we have made that clear in the comments. There is reason to be glad that the Right also sees the sense of that approach, but it is a pity if the Right considers it a necrolog and not a forward-looking measure.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-23.ana.ud1471e1558	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-23.ana.ud1471e1562	The time has come for those parties not represented in the Justice Committee. But to show that we are very interested in justice policy, we have also made sure to deliver various Document No. Eight proposals so that the Committee has something to work on. When discussing this communication that is the basis for the suspension, it may be good to state that the Norwegian police have great confidence. Thus, the message is also based on a fact that not all countries can adorn themselves with. It says something about the trust the police have accumulated over time, it says something about the state of law in Norway, and it says something about the stability that actually characterizes our society. That's also the starting point when we're going to look into the glass ball five to ten years, as we're told, about what police role we're looking at. In order to maintain the great trust that the police have, it is absolutely essential for the Christian People's Party that we have to have closeness between the police and the police to serve. We do not want to weaken the presence of the police in the communities. It, combined with increasing globalisation also in the field of crime, can present a major challenge in the future. We have a police officer who is a generalist. And then the question is, to what extent do we have to get a greater degree of specialization as a result of the crime development we have? I'm going to think that maybe it's one of the biggest challenges that lies in the police role in the future. We want a competent police officer. We have a good police training. The need for continuing training is likely to increase in the years that are coming in line with an ever-changing crime picture – it is only to look at crime related to the Internet against children and young people, we have the NOKAS case, which shows a completely different situation with regard to which instruments criminals are willing to use, and in this city we have seen an ever-increasing trend in trafficking and trafficking in human beings. All of this happens at a faster speed than before, and these changes require more of the police than before. In five minutes it's not as much you can get inside, but I want to draw out some relationships as well. Then I want to challenge the Minister of Justice on the following, which has been addressed in the comments, namely the interface between police and defence. What we see as a development in our neighbourhoods is a greater risk of terrorist attacks. How do we make best use of the total resources in this way, and how is the interface between police and defence tasks so that we are best equipped on the day of such an estimation? I know there's contact, of course, between police and defense in that way, but with the considerable resources we invest not least in Defense, there's good reason to ask how we use these resources as best we can in the context I mentioned. A good police force is not created by financial resources alone. We have a lot of dedicated employees who make a lot of effort in terms of safety and security for the Norwegian population. There is reason to draw up and thank you for today. Finally, I would like to address the proposal we are promoting: ‘The Government asks the Police Directorate to put in place a system of child protection consultants in all police districts.’ It has to do with preventive work, it has to do with taking care of children and young people, and it has to do with developments in family violence that are unfortunately increasing, but where the police have invested more resources than before, and we hope the proposal can also get approval here.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-23.ana.ud1471e1584	The representative Hans Olav Syversen has taken up the proposal he has referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-23.ana.ud1471e1589	I would like to ask the same question to the Christian People's Party as I did to the Advance Party instead, because I perceive that in sum they constitute an opposition here on the Stortinget, which may lead a different – alternative – policy than what the Government is doing. It is about the consequences of the use of drugs in criminal acts. The progress party was, just to repeat it, concerned that the police's prevention task was central here, while my point was that one must go ahead of it and look at the consequences of a very liberal drug policy — family violence, that of violence outside the scene, and that of the profitability of the use of drugs in order to obtain sufficient funds to continue its drug use. I ask: does the Christian People's Party see the need for measures related to the translation of drugs to prevent criminal acts?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-23.ana.ud1471e1594	I don't think it's going to come as a big surprise to the representatives of Ballo or others that we see a relationship between drug policy and crime. I've also seen that there's a majority in the vote that points to the same thing, not least that 60 pst. violence-related crime is committed in alcohol intoxication. I guess I can't say that there's an overall opposition to drugs policy. It'll be taking a little bit too hard in. There is probably a certain distance between the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party in that way. We see absolutely the need for a restrictive alcohol policy and drug policy – not least in this city where we are now. And I have to say that also the Socialist Left Party could benefit from looking at how in recent times one has had influence over the specter policy in this city.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-23.ana.ud1471e1601	I feel the need to ask the Christian People's Party to explain a little about the need for proposal No. 7, which they have promoted. This is justified, inter alia, by: with increasing family violence. Now we have said in the position that we should introduce family violence coordinator in the districts. In addition, we have said that we are now setting up police councils to increase interaction between municipal sectors and the police. On that basis, I feel that the proposal becomes a little butter on the bottle, and I want the Christian People's Party to justify its own proposal a little more fully.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-23.ana.ud1471e1608	After all, we are based on the good experience, which is not least from this city, where there have been child protection consultants with some politicians. It simply has to do with the fact that it gives a higher focus and a better quality to the part of police work related to tasks related to children and children who are exposed to violence. That is why we also hope that the Workers' Party would be able to support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-23.ana.ud1471e1613	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-23.ana.ud1471e1616	It's hard to see the country lead without police and gunmen. The budget is crucial for the security of us who live in this country, and we also know that the police have a new level of confidence among the citizens. The message we are handling today states that we have chosen a police system that is both appropriate and resource efficient. The centre part is full about the goal of better prevention, clarification, faster response and better rehabilitation. In order to achieve the objectives and to continue to be able to recruit skilled and motivated people to the police, it is important that there is a clear political signal when it comes to the role of the police and the police. This is why today's theme is important. The centre party wants a visible and actionable near-police. A decentralized police and county council is helping to ensure the prevention and suppression of violence and crime throughout the country. There is thus a provision for the objective of equivalent service provision regardless of how well you live in the country. A visible police force strengthens our sense of security, at least the sense of security of most of us, and it is in itself crime prevention. The local knowledge with which the police are involved makes both prevention and crime management easier. A decentralised police force fits as a hand in gloves with the brush pattern we have. And it makes it possible that there should be a good opportunity for police and local government to cooperate. As a hindrance, it is important for us in the Centre Party to stress that when the Committee talks about ‘adjustment in the organisation locally with limited trials in selected districts’, it is not about the reversal of the near-police regime, the extensive closure of the Länsmannskontoret or centralisation. In any case, there is no development that the Centre Party can support. But we do not overlook the fact that the structure can be changed for good in those cases where there is a wide agreement that it is not appropriate to keep up your own service unit. For most of us, there is great security in knowing that one has police services available within reasonable time if necessary. For the Centre Party, equivalent service provision means that the inhabitants should not experience an unreasonably long response time even if a choice of bussing outside the big cities. We agree with the committee that one cannot expect the same response time in densely populated areas as in non-fixed areas. Nevertheless, it is important for us to stress that the response time must be at an acceptable level, where the individual can feel safe to get help. A lead for a good service provision in many coastal communities, for example, is the fact that coastal police districts have a satisfactory maritime service. It is important for the Centre Party that the fixed busnet area does not experience that the response time is significantly increased and thus the supply is reduced. Awareness raising, refresher training and specialisation for individuals added before the police are important both for the current enrolment and for recruitment to the establishment. Within a decentralised structure, it is a particular challenge to ensure that all participants have the ability to acquire more knowledge in restricted areas, and not least to feel that they benefit from the skills they possess. This calls not only for increased efforts to enhance competence, but also for increased focus on cooperation between different parts of the network and coordination of police district resources. While skills enhancement and internal processes are central, it is important that they feel that they have sufficient time to do the job they are assigned to. It is therefore important to strike the right balance between these concerns in the instructions to the police districts. We have high expectations for efficient resource use across the police districts around the country. It is also important that we have high expectations of efficiency and resource management when it comes to the state over construction. The centre party wants to spend more of its society's accumulated resources on prevention and less on repair. Crime prevention is one of the police's central tasks. The central party wants a police force visible in the community, which is in contact with the school system and voluntary organisations and with the youth community – and actively in cooperation with municipalities on prevention work. The report points out that crime by people under the age of 18 is increasing. We're in the Central Party because we know that the leisure provision for this group around the country has been swayed in parallel. We hope that the promise made in the local economy will help and improve it and also have a crime prevention effect, even if it is not the main objective. Although today’s debate shows that there is a nuance in the view of the role of the police, there is a mass increase that today shows the way forward for this sector, and that is important.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-23.ana.ud1471e1639	It is now 3:15 a.m. and tomorrow's meeting is over. We'll take a break in the negotiations until noon. 18th@item: inlistbox
