ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-06-lower.ana.ud1150e41	The President will propose the election of the President of Odelstingen's meetings this week and Tuesday 13 June – and will consider it adopted. The President will propose Gunn Olsen. – Other proposals are not available, and Gunn Olsen is unanimously elected president of Odelstingen’s meetings this week and Tuesday 13 June.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-06-lower.ana.ud1150e62	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 281]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-06-lower.ana.ud1150e78	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of up to 3 lines after the intervention of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-06-lower.ana.ud1150e87	In St.meld. No 18 for 2003-2004, on security of supply for electricity, etc., the Ministry announced that initiatives would be taken to amend the Energy Act. The amendment was intended to provide a basis for regulating the price setting for power supplied under the universal service obligation provision. It is this that underlies the proposals in the proposition we are dealing with today. The aim of the proposed amendment and the detailed rules is to protect consumers. Provision is made for detailed rules on universal service obligations for electricity, including prices, conditions, implementation, organisation and information for concessionaires and end-users. The proposed amendment shall, inter alia: reduce the risk to the final customer during the period during which he or she has no choice but to have universal power supplies from the local network company. The supply of power is mainly relevant in the event of the bankruptcy of the power supply, the termination of power supplies, the transfer of customer relationships or the failure to agree with the normal supply of power may result from past defaults in payments. The delivery obligation is intended to be time-limited. The Committee assumes that this is done by regulation. Furthermore, it is assumed that this does not increase the costs for the transmission system companies, since the supply of power is not the core activity of the transmission system companies. An important part of the provision is to get customers from universal service to ordinary power supply contracts. Here is a joint committee that supports the Ministry's proposal to strengthen the transmission system companies' information responsibilities. The introduction of two-way communications will reduce the need for provisions relating to universal service obligations. We should therefore focus on the development of two-way communications in the mains power grid. It will contribute to more awareness of own consumption and lead to less use of energy. The proposal proposes new general provisions of the Energy Act on corporate and functional separation requirements for the organisation of power companies, in order to distinguish between monopoly-based network activities and other activities. The Ministry refers to St.meld. No 15 for 2004-2005, on competition policy, in which new requirements on company and functional separation between network activities and competitive activities in power companies were notified, in order to ensure the optimum functioning of the market and competition in power markets. The Ministry proposes a corporate distinction for vertically integrated companies in which companies have more than 100000 customers. This is in line with the requirements of the Electricity Directive. If the number exceeds 100000, the network activity must be separated into one or more clean network carriers without placing on the market or producing energy. A majority of the Committee, consisting of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Christian People's Party and the Centre Party, joins in this. The Consumer Council and the Competition Authority consider that the corporate separation limit should be significantly lower, at 10000 customers. Norway's watercourse and energy directorate believes the distinction should go to 20,000 customers. These were also the proposals sent at the consultation of the Bondevik II administration. On the other hand, a broad majority of the sectoral and local authorities are in favour of the proposed Directive and the Ministry's proposal of 100 000. The majority of the Committee has therefore, following an overall assessment, been in favour of the Ministry’s proposals. The Christian People's Party believes that a clear distinction between production, turnover and network activities is important in order to enable the market to function within the power turnover. An efficient market presupposes the elimination of the potential for unfortunate cross-subsidies in vertically integrated companies. The Committee's recommendation is that the Odelstinget adopts the law on amendments to the Energy Act, Act of 29 June 1990 No. 50, as it says in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-06-lower.ana.ud1150e108	Ot. pp. No 61 for 2005-2006 contains several legislative changes, including changes to the EU Directive. The hearing bodies have generally been positive about the changes. EBL says, among other things: that they are positive that energy companies are given conditions that provide opportunities for economic development locally and regionally. Their objections to the proposal are the tight regulation of the group manager’s ability to sit on the boards of the subsidiaries. The disagreement following the consultation round is about Norwegian power companies operating both monopolistic network activities and production/competitive activities, subject to stricter requirements for corporate and functional separation than the EU Directive requires. Here you can see the St. Meld's Government. No 15 for 2004-2005, on competition policy, where the Bondevik II Government announced new demands for company and functional separation. The EU Directive proposes a corporate distinction where companies have more than 100,000 customers, subscribers, while the Bondevik II Government proposal was down to 10,000 customers. This has been proposed by the Progress Party and the Right in the case that we are dealing with today, even though it was a unanimous committee which, during the examination of the competition policy notification, considered that the power industry could receive additional costs due to the reorganisation of the industry as a result of new company and functional requirements for the power companies. The real question is whether the actors involved in both network activities and power generation are cross-subsidising, and whether this weakens competition in the market and is price driven in relation to end-users. In St.meld. No 15, on competition policy, the Bondevik II government notes in a footnote that ‘it is very unlikely that some people have incentives for this kind of behaviour’. Then we have confidence in vertically integrated companies. The Bondevik II government also said that the retail market is national and largely characterised by national actors and that many of the actors have their own production activities. Competition between operators in the retail market is considered to be well-functioning. I see no reason why Norway should go down to 10,000 customers and review the EU directive when today's market is functioning properly. That is why I am very pleased that the red-green government will not force itself through the reorganisation of smaller companies, but rather deal with the EU directive. There are then six companies in Norway with over 100,000 customers, and they are already formed as a group. If the Progress Party and the Right’s proposal were implemented, with 10,000 customers, the consequences would have been that the incorporated management structures were split and the environments of competence were dissolved. In my opinion, this would have resulted in a greater red tape and expenses that would eventually be imposed on the end-user. The companies also have a responsibility today in relation to cross-subsidies, including: with strict rules for shared accounts. The Committee is therefore divided into the conclusion as to when a division is to take place. The rest of the proposition is largely agreed. We shall continue to strive to have an efficient power market and efficient use and development of the network at all stages. It is therefore essential that the NVE and the Competition Authority should exercise oversight and follow-up in the future. I am pleased that the Committee is concerned with the content of the proposal in terms of outsourcing, where the Ministry assumes that operators with a concession under the Energy Act will have their own employees with all the necessary competence to manage their obligations under law, regulation, concessions and agreements. This is a very important matter for the Workers' Party. I am pleased to record that the working case rapporteur, from the Christian People's Party, is underpinning the entire content of the proposition and is thus contributing to strengthening the majority of a continuing well-functioning force market. The Labour Party continues to believe that strong national and decentralised public ownership of power companies is the best solution for the nation.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-06-lower.ana.ud1150e139	Several representatives have now explained in detail the substance of the matter, so I am only asking for the floor for a brief comment from the Progress Party, because there is no major disagreement in the Committee on this matter. In order to create the best functioning electricity market, or electricity, it is essential that there is a clear distinction between electricity generation, turnover and network distribution. It is therefore important to make clear legal requirements for both corporate and functional separation in vertically integrated companies, not least in order to avoid an unfortunate cross-subsidy between production and network activities. The majority of final customers in the distribution network in Norway are already connected to network companies that are organised as independent legal entities, so in this way the law does not represent major changes based on current realities. I also refer you to Mr. Åse Gunhild Woie Duesund's posts on behalf of the rapporteur, and to other posts that were made before mine, concerning the details of the legislative amendment. The legislative proposal is based on the minimum provisions of EU legislation in this area, and of course in the Progress Party we take note of this. But the Progress Party is basically of the opinion that the consideration of the consumer is always very important, as well as in this case. Therefore, the Progress Party is of the opinion that legal requirements for company separation should be considered, cf. § 4-6, different from the minimum requirements of the Directive on which the legislative proposal is based, with a limit of 100 000 online customers. The Party considers that the limit should be lowered, for example: 10 000 online customers. In principle, it was also desirable that the functional separation requirement, cf. § 4-7 should be set below 100 000 online customers. In addition, the Progress Party supports the Right's proposal on corporate and functional separation by 10,000 online customers on the grounds that § 4-7 refers directly to § 4-6 and that the Progress Party is in any case for a limit of 10,000 customers for a company distinction. For these reasons, the party wishing to vote against the first sentence of § 4-6 of the first paragraph of the suspension. Finally, I would like to take up the proposals in the vote where the Progress Party is a part of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-06-lower.ana.ud1150e154	The representative Torbjørn Andersen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-06-lower.ana.ud1150e157	Let me first join in what the working case rapporteur said, and in what was said by the representative of the Labour Party. In fact, this proposition concerns some important issues relating to the development of the energy industry in Norway, and is also, in my view, a proposition that addresses important issues in relation to consumer concerns. In this context, I am pleased that there is a unanimous committee that is behind the desire to invest in the development of two-way communications in the mains power grid. Increased use of it can both contribute to self-consumption awareness and have good gains. The main issue, and the issue of which there is the greatest disagreement in the Committee, is that of company division. We fully support what is presented by the Government. This will help to shape the future of the power industry in Norway. If, for purely consumer reasons, as the Consumer Council had wanted, it had gone down to a corporate division that should have owed everyone as much as 10,000 customers, it would have led to an overbureaucratisation of the industry and would have been inappropriate, which in the end could have affected consumers. Let me also say that I am pleased that the majority refers to the Department of Proposition assuming that with a concession under the Energy Act, operators should have their own employees who have all the necessary competence to manage their obligations under law, regulation, concessions and agreements. This is an important question for SV on the issue of outsourcing in the industry. Let me also say that I am happy that the Christian People's Party is involved and strengthens the majority of this law. I have also registered that the representative from the Left has concerns with the limit that was initially sent to the hearing from the government of Bondevik.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-06-lower.ana.ud1150e170	A clear distinction between those responsible for production and those responsible for network operations in the electricity sector is important. It's because you're busy with consumers and customers, and because it's a forward-looking business policy. We see tougher competition from abroad in almost all areas, and then having access to energy at competitive prices is an important factor in securing Norwegian jobs. Of course, it is no coincidence that the professional bodies, not the political, but the professional bodies, such as the NVE, have wanted a different limit in setting clear legal requirements for the corporate and functional separation of vertically integrated power companies. The NVE has chosen to go for a limit of 20,000. The Consumer Council has chosen a limit of 10000. I think it is very important that the law also sets clear limits on how to avoid possible unfortunate cross-subsidies between the monopoly part, which is the network, and the production part. I assume that the Government, now that you have fallen into a different perspective, will at least try to preserve the competitive elements as best you can within the limits that you then set. I believe that the solutions chosen here weaken competition. I would have preferred that the type of cross-subsidisation, because, as I said, in an international competitive situation, where there is a greater demand for Norway to have a good school, a more entrepreneurial research and good and efficient road links, is in fact also that if you have to pay more for electricity in District Norway because you have an opportunity to cross-subsidize, since you have not made this legal distinction, you do yourself a bear service. In that case, Norwegian farms will be at risk of putting 10 meters behind the others when you're about to jump about 60 meters. And if you put 10 meters behind, you can of course win, but it's an advantage if you're going to do it well in the 60 meters, you're going to put it on the same starting line, because then you're going to get to the goal first and secure Norwegian jobs, and not least Norwegian business.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-06-lower.ana.ud1150e181	The Government’s proposal for amendments to the Energy Act is essentially necessary legislative adaptations to implement the EU’s new legislation for gas and power markets – the so-called energy market package. The energy market package consists of two new directives on common rules for both the internal market in electricity and natural gas and a new regulation on cross-border trade in electricity. In addition, the Commission will decide on the establishment of a European Regulators Group for Electricity and Gas. The first EU Directive on market-based power turnover was incorporated into the EEA Agreement in 1999. The Directive was a minimum directive to introduce market-based power turnover within the EU. Norway already had a law through the Energy Act to facilitate a market-based power system. The energy market package involves much more specific and detailed EU rules for the regulation of different aspects of a market-based power turnover system. At the centre are the questions of the tasks, organisation, tariffs and conditions of access to the network and, in particular, the tasks of the regulator. For Norway, the energy market package leads mainly to the need for minor legislative adjustments. In particular, there are rules of the Electricity Directive on corporate and functional separation requirements for vertically integrated power companies that have had the highest attention. The new Electricity Directive requires a corporate and functional distinction between monopolistic network activities and competitive production and the placing on the market of power. Since the introduction of the Energy Act, the NVE has called for company division by merging, buying-in, etc. where network activities and competitive activities are involved. In St.meld. No 15 for 2004-2005, On Competition Policy, the Bondevik II Government notified stricter requirements on corporate and functional separation between network activities and competitive activities in electricity companies than the minimum requirements of the Directive. Proposals were sent to the consultation of the Bondevik II Government in June 2005. During the hearing, there were strong objections to the proposal by several teams. In line with the minimum requirement of the Directive and in the light of the hearing opinions, the Government proposes to set the threshold for corporate and functional separation requirements resulting from the Directive to 100 000 network customers. The proposal of the Bondevik II government to set a limit of 20,000, or at least 10,000 network customers, would result in the forced reorganisation of several locally owned power companies. In my view, this is not desirable, primarily because the costs of the smallest power companies will be too high. The question of whether reorganisations in the sector should be based on voluntary or coercive action was central to the debate already at the time of the adoption of the Energy Act in 1990. Since then, it has been a political prerequisite that reorganisations within the sector should be based as much as possible on voluntary activity. This has also, to date, been the driving force behind the practice of the NVE in such cases. The Government's proposal to set the limit to 100 000 online customers for forced reorganization must therefore be seen in the context of the proposal to continue today's practice under the Energy Act, with the possibility to impose corporate separation requirements by aggregation, etc. triggering the concession obligation under the Energy Act. The company separation requirements for companies with less than 100000 online customers could then be set in motion by reorganisations of the owners themselves, rather than by compulsory compulsory reorganisation of those smaller companies. This practice is now more firmly anchored in the law. The purpose of the corporate and functional separation requirements is to address the risk of illegal cross-subsidisation and discriminatory behaviour of the network companies. I believe that this can be counteracted already by existing regulation of the network activities and the measures proposed to strengthen the enforcement of, among others. the requirements for neutrality of network carriers. Finally, I would like to add some comments to the proposal to introduce a legal framework for the conditions of the network companies for power supplied under the universal service obligation. The proposal must be seen in the context of the recent amendments to the Consumer Purchases Act adopted by the Storting in order to strengthen the contractual position of consumers. Further protection is now provided to consumers. On the basis of the amendment of the law, we will strengthen the conditions for the universal service obligations of the network companies in cases where the contract with the power provider ceases for various reasons, such as: in the event of bankruptcy or relocation.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-06-lower.ana.ud1150e202	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-06-lower.ana.ud1150e205	There is a great deal of unanimity in the committee in this matter, but it is true, as the Council of State says, that the dispute in this matter is at the point where the distinction between the activities of the network is to be established. The Council of State stated that reorganization and relatively high costs would result if one were to set the requirement below 100 000 customers. But is it not in the opinion of the Council of State that the competitive elements would have been better protected if a distinction had been made not as now, at 100,000 customers, but for example. at 10,000? Would it not have been in the interests of the consumer to reduce this limit, as this would have included several network carriers?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-06-lower.ana.ud1150e213	Of course, I should not entirely rule out that this may have an impact on competitive conditions. But what we have done is to try to take different considerations into account, to take the utmost account of consumers – which should be taken into account – while also recognising that we have a large number of relatively small power companies in Norway that will be subject to a reorganisation if you set the requirement of 20,000 or 10,000 customers. This would result in additional costs and red tape for these companies, which in turn would lead to increased costs for consumers who benefit from the services of these companies. That is why we have chosen to rely on the EU minimum directive, in addition to seeking to protect consumers’ interests through the incorporated schemes, for example. through the control of monopolies and also in the case of e.g.: positions in senior management positions, such as in governance — as an example.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-06-lower.ana.ud1150e218	Several have not asked for the word for a line. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 282]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-06-lower.ana.ud1150e236	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 284]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-06-lower.ana.ud1150e244	Odelstingen then goes to voting in case No. 1 to 3.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-06-lower.ana.ud1150e455	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-06-lower.ana.ud1150e465	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-06-lower.ana.ud1150e473	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Torbjørn Andersen, on behalf of the Party of Progress, Right and Left, draft No. 2, from the representative Torbjørn Andersen on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-06-lower.ana.ud1150e516	The right has announced that they want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-06-lower.ana.ud1150e563	The party of progress, the Right and the Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-06-lower.ana.ud1150e675	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-06-lower.ana.ud1150e686	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-06-lower.ana.ud1150e744	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-06-lower.ana.ud1150e754	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
