ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-05.ana.ud2070e22	The representatives Jan Petersen and Jorod Asphjell, who have been licensed, have once again taken their seats. The representative of Bjørg Tørresdal will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-05.ana.ud2070e33	On behalf of the representative Jon Lilletun and myself, I would like to put forward proposals for the re-evaluation of stays in Norway for children who have been in reception for a long time.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-05.ana.ud2070e38	The representative, Jan Tore Sanner, will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-05.ana.ud2070e41	On behalf of the big business representatives Svein Flätten, Peter Skovholt Gitmark and myself, I would like to propose the introduction of a system that ensures that the VAT system does not prevent state-owned enterprises from purchasing from those who can deliver the best goods and services.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-05.ana.ud2070e46	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-05.ana.ud2070e66	On Monday, the Storting received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following government councils will meet for oral Question Time: Council of State Kristin Halvorsen Council of State Øystein Djupedal Council of State Karita Bekkemelm The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, wish to ask themselves the main questions asked. – We then start with the first main questions, from the representative Ulf Erik Knudsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-05.ana.ud2070e85	My question goes to the Minister for Gender Equality. It is well - known that fundamentalist Islam preaches violence, impunity, and coercion. It has also emerged that Muslim churches at the imams are opening up to violence against women. These are the activities and attitudes we do not want in Norway, and we see the result in terms of the proportion of immigrant women in crisis centres going through 50 pst. In November 2005, the Council of State, Karita Bekkemelm, spoke to the news agency ABN: ‘It is totally unacceptable and the government will consider whether State aid can be used as a means of pressurisation. Imams must take away from violence against women, not make statements that can legitimize it.’ She further stated: ‘We shall fight against violence against women among the Nordics, and we shall not be able to accept it among our new countrymen.’ Violence is one side of it, coercion, circumcision, impunity and burkatvang are other sides. It's been six months since this show, and what has the Council of State actually done in this period? We have not seen any concrete measures, other than surveys and investigations – what we call talk in good Norwegian. But these are problems that cannot be solved by talking. We saw the government's puzzled and defensive attitude when it came to defending the freedom of expression in the cartoon case. Many felt this as a kneecap for the fundamentalists. My question to the Council of State: This is about the situation of women in Norway, and perhaps the weakest women: immigrant women. What has she done specifically, and what will she do specifically in this area?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-05.ana.ud2070e108	I want to say that the representative Knudsen addresses a problem that is important to the entire Norwegian community, and that this government is taking it seriously. Now we have challenges on many different fronts. We know that the problem of violence for immigrant women is great. We're constantly getting reports from the crisis center movement on the extent of it. In addition, in recent years, we have been faced with major cross-cutting challenges. Several departments are working with concrete measures, and I would like to say that tomorrow our department will address the work of various organisations on this problem in a concrete way, so that we can gather some experience material on how we can come up with concrete measures. We know that we have had our own action plans both in terms of forced marriage and in terms of circumcision, but what is important now is that we are able to evaluate, and also dare to be a little critical of ourselves in being able to deploy new instruments. There is no doubt that what goes on with money support can be an appropriate instrument. I'm not hiding that there are different opinions about that issue in all three parties, but I think the most important thing in our society is that there is zero tolerance in terms of discriminating and exerting violence against women and children. I believe that neither religion nor culture can be used as an excuse to do that kind of action against women and children.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-05.ana.ud2070e117	I see that the clear answer from the Council of State is that there has been no money support in relation to the Muslim congregations preaching violence. It is easy to talk about the quotaing of women in company management, giving beautiful talks about women, for example. in women's clubs, such as nurses, should have better pay, talk about kindergartens, etc., but taking these difficult, concrete measures is very difficult to achieve. Recently, the government parties said no to the proposals of the Progress Party which could limit part of what is happening through coercion. We proposed a 24-year limit to bring spouses to the country and ban cousins and marriages. The numbers we got from our embassy in Pakistan show that 97 pst. of all marriages are actually forcible marriages. What will the Council of State do in this area?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-05.ana.ud2070e124	The Government is now working on a review of both the Foreign Affairs Act and the Marriage Act. There are several concrete proposals for action on this point. The representative Knudsen has not even gained experience in government yet, but it is in fact that some things have to be consulted before a government can make a concrete proposal. We have been sitting for five months now, and I can at least promise that this government will be wrong to make concrete action. But I also ask for some understanding that we have to have a certain procedure. We also need to have common types of cooperation points with the departments concerned before we can present a document proposal in Stortinget on these specific issues. Had the government not done a thorough preparatory work until we made suggestions on these partly difficult and sensitive questions, I am absolutely sure that we had got a very strong response back from Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-05.ana.ud2070e129	There will be follow-up questions – first Olemic Thommessen.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-05.ana.ud2070e132	I am pleased to hear that the Council of State will be wrong to address this. I understand that you need to have a certain preparation time to get to grips with something, or to put something forward. So now the previous government did something that was concrete, that it lowered the requirements for expulsion. But then it is that if you accuse this, it has a suspensive effect that causes an attacker against a woman to be allowed to be in the country and appear as a continuing threat. This was investigated by the previous government, and I am sure that if the Council of State makes contact with the Council of State, Mr. Bjarne Håkon Hanssen, and he looks a little after in his drawers, he will find something that actually makes it possible to put something forward quite quickly. Will the Government be courageous and take hold of this, and ensure that in these cases we have a regulation that will prevent us from getting a suspensive effect in court? Then she will really do something for all those who sit in the crisis centers and are saved every single day.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-05.ana.ud2070e139	I want to say, as I also said in my reply to the representative Knudsen, that the government is now working closely with the most concerned departments. It is such that both the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Inclusion work intensively on these questions together with our department. We're going to make suggestions on that. But then I also think it's a little eye-catching how many good suggestions did the Right have in the drawers when they were put in the government offices. It's a little regrettable to the Right that the good proposals did not come out of the drawer in the four years they actually put in government and had the opportunity to exercise political power.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-05.ana.ud2070e147	May-Helen Molvær Grimstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-05.ana.ud2070e150	The previous government had an offensive policy in terms of addressing the challenge of power. For the Christian People's Party, violence against women is unacceptable, wherever it happens. Neither religion nor culture can defend violence. We also know that a liberal alcohol policy leads to increased power. That's why we're busy with a restrictive line in this area. In the summer, there was a measurement of power in close relation. The poll showed that several thousand women and children live with the threat of violence as part of everyday life. In June 2004, the Bondevik II government presented its own action plan on violence in close relations. The plan contained 30 concrete measures to fight family elections and focus on victims as well as on attackers and children who are witnesses to violence. Measures must be taken, including: strengthen the provision of assistance to women who have been put to death. What will the Council of State do to continue this important work?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-05.ana.ud2070e157	I want to say that the Bondevik government laid an important and solid foundation in this field that our government will continue. There is no doubt that the topic addressed by the representative is a difficult one. It's about intimate things that are difficult for public authorities to go into and maybe give the right help. That is why I also believe that public attention and a lot of debate on these issues are themselves important. But that also means that we have to have relief measures. Then I can't stand myself either: when the representative refers to a restrictive line in the alcohol policy, I must say that the line that the Christian People's Party led in the government offices, perhaps did not just mean that there was less flow of various alcoholic beverages here in the country. We're concerned that we're going to take this topic seriously, and we're going to follow it up properly.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-05.ana.ud2070e168	Step Skei Grande – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-05.ana.ud2070e171	We have a government council that has equality in its title. You have now said that you should follow the action plan against coerciveness, follow up the action plan against violence in close relations as our government has made, and then you might also say that you will follow the action plan against violence and abuse of women – and we have ensured that all the good efforts we actually put in place will be pursued. Infringements against women are quite cross-cultural and quite cross-religious. This one-sided focus on the fact that there are only some religious leaders who can remove this from the surface of the earth must be a little wrong. It's also true that when it comes to crimes against homosexuals and lesbians, it's perceived that in a lot of religious communities, their tolerance is very low. It's also quite cross-religious and quite cross-cultural. Will the Council of State do anything in this field, or is the exposure only related to imams?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-05.ana.ud2070e178	I can assure the representative that this topic too is something I have a great commitment to, it's an important theme to follow up. We now know that we have set up a new gender equality and discrimination agency, which will also have an important responsibility in our society to ensure that the injustice against homosexuals does not happen. The Stoltenberg government provided an important message in its time on the situation of lesbians and gays, and the previous government has also provided various types of action plans that are an important basis for all of us to build on. We must constantly be able to go in and look at what new measures we are going to take. We are, as I said, in the process of this work, and the Storting will have all the opportunity to come back again, to have their opinions and to participate and give their signals to society about how we're going to live up to these things. Then I also want to say that I think it is important that our police take these matters seriously, and that we have a legal system that sees that this is an injustice that we do not want.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-05.ana.ud2070e185	Per Sandberg – to the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-05.ana.ud2070e188	I have had the pleasure of sitting in committee with the Council of State, I have also had the pleasure of being at many seminars with the Council of State, and I know that the Council of State agrees with the Party of Advancement that a limit of 24 years should be imposed to introduce spouses, I know that the Council of State agrees with the Party of Progress on a number of other points, both in terms of increasing the requirement of dependance, in relation to the requirements of self-occupancy and also in relation to this with the prohibition of marriage between cousins and cousins. Today, we get a clear message that 150 attempts have been stopped on forced marriage, and then the Council of State is standing here talking about even more bureaucracy and even more investigations. We have the solutions, and then my simple question is to the Council of State: how many more young Norwegian girls will the Council of State accept falling on the altar of bureaucracy?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-05.ana.ud2070e195	I am very happy to have the opportunity to say on behalf of the Government that it is not that we add up to unnecessary bureaucracy and new selections, if we know that we have good, concrete proposals for solutions. I showed in my reply to the representative Knudsen that the government now has two specific issues, with very specific proposals that we have sent out to the hearing, to which we will be taking our position during the spring. It is therefore not the case that this government is now going to go around with various selections in order to avoid making some difficult decisions. We will make the necessary decisions to stop this injustice against women and children. The representative knows me, as he says, quite well after many years at Stortinget, so he knows that there is great pressure and commitment to these questions both from the Council of State and from the entire college that is now sitting in the Red-Green Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-05.ana.ud2070e202	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-05.ana.ud2070e205	Yesterday, Minister of Environment Bjørnøy said that transparency about all information is crucial, and secrecy is undermining democracy. For a few years back in this room, the then representative of Djupedal said: There is a long tradition in the Norwegian administration of transparency. It's one of the good things in the Norwegian administration. I think both of them are right. It's important to have transparency, it's important to have knowledge. Openness gives open debate, discussion about things. But we have a government where the Minister of Health believes that the elderly do not need to know how the municipality has arrived at how much time the individual will have, and we have a Minister of Education who does not want transparency about results, performance and achievement in school. Schoolporten.no is a website for quality assessment and quality development. It is an important instrument for those who make decisions in municipalities, in schools, to be able to make a good offer to students. It is an instrument for parents to be able to keep up with the development of their own school. Schoolporten.no is an transparency instrument, not a ranking instrument, but an transparency instrument in order for us to have a qualified, good and democratic discussion on how development in the Norwegian school is – how development in the individual school is, how development in the schoolfront is in the individual municipality. So that's what's an important measure of this. Therefore, I must be allowed to ask the Minister of Education why the school gate is closed. now, and on what the Council of State believes when it says that the results of the national tests shall be available to those who will use them.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-05.ana.ud2070e213	Let me start by saying that our government has openness as an important part of its basic document. This has been seen very clearly in the discussion of the management plan, where the Minister for the Environment has, for example, presented everything that was previously secret. Let me say to the national tests: we have now established a dialogue with School-Norway which, when introduced from the autumn of 2007, will have wide acceptance in School-Norway. Unfortunately, during the previous government, national tests became a political project of excellence that neither the schools nor the parents nor the students understood the importance of. It made the school a battlefield, and it made very many people who really think it's right to measure quality were against national tests. What we've done in a broad dialogue with School-Norway is that we're now introducing it after a test, so that the quality is present. From the autumn of 2007 there will therefore be national tests in Norway, in reading, in Norwegian and English, and in mathematics. So we want national samples on writing at national level, not at student level, and then we want to go further from there. We do that because we think it's right that School-Norway should know what we're doing. Then we move the sample from the spring, so it doesn't look like an exam, over to the autumn, so this just becomes a regular test. Our starting point is that this is going to be a national test that measures the student's basic skills, nothing else. The information provided is important for the student, for the teacher, for the school and for the school owner. This means that the information on the student’s performance shall be available to those concerned. But it doesn't make sense to rank schools in order, because we know very well that pedagogical work, pedagogical results, can't be measured in one character. Therefore, it will be possible to measure against a national average, which will be public, but it will not – we will not facilitate ranking – be in order for schools to have a competitive position as well as to be the best. Everyone who has children in school, everyone who is involved in the school, knows that the nature of national tests is of little value, but it can be a management tool for the teacher, the educator, for the student, and for the parents and the school owners, of course, this will be useful information. We want to make that right.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-05.ana.ud2070e220	It is true that the school port.no was not organized for ranking – just as the tax lists, as Mr. Djupedal has been busy with the should be open, never was directly organized for ranking. When it was for treatment and there were questions of transparency about it, Djupedal said that there are certainly many who feel very uncomfortable, but the point is that it is not the task of Stortinget or any other body to edit Norwegian media. That was also the previous government's position on what had to be done with the results that came out. But it has never been added to that sort of ranking by the school authorities under the previous government. But my question goes back to the question of transparency. In listing who needs information, the Minister of Knowledge forgot the parents as an important group. Another thing is that when this is to be a basis for decisions in local policy, when it comes to providing a basis for the new school owners, with more power, actually to make good decisions, then the voters should not know what basis and the problems you address as a school politician in the municipality, because you do not know what the situation in the individual schools is?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-05.ana.ud2070e227	If I got hurt to forget the parents in my uproar instead, of course the parents should have access to that information. So in that case it was just a slip of the tongue. Our starting point is that the national tests should be a governance instrument that takes into account the quality and basic skills of students. This information is important for the student to improve, and for the school to improve, and we need to have a governance instrument for this. Therefore, this is a tool that should be used that way. We may not be able to guard ourselves, I think, against much of this information becoming public. Now we're looking at how we can organize this. We see that our neighbouring countries have a different way of providing the information, so you don't have the ability to rank. It is very clear – not least the Conservative Danish minister Bertil Haarder, whom Erna Solberg probably knows from many years of politics, is very clear that this information should not be available to anyone other than those who need the information in order to improve the student’s quality and performance. This will also be our government's starting point for how we're going to do this.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-05.ana.ud2070e236	There will be follow-up questions – first Jan Tore Sanner.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-05.ana.ud2070e239	Nothing is more important than that all children are allowed to go to a good school, and that all children learn as much as possible. There has been a shift in school policy since Øystein Djupedal entered the chair. There's less focus on knowledge in school, and there's less desire for knowledge about school. After all, when we've wanted transparency about school outcomes, it's because we think through an open debate we can make sure that we focus on how all schools can get better. There's transparency about how many teachers we have, how much money we spend, how many PCs we have, but we think there must also be knowledge of what students actually learn. I have to ask you, sir. Djupedal: When he says that it should be the knowledge the students get, the parents get and the school owners get, who is the Djupedal supposed not to have the information about what the students actually learn, and how to increase the learning outcomes of each student and in each school?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-05.ana.ud2070e248	Our government has as its starting point that we need to have more knowledge in school. We know that the school is getting better in dialogue and working with those who are busy at school. Unfortunately, under the previous government we experienced that very much of this became conflict, very much was not dialogue, very much was even simply put on the head, so for example. the national tests, which are initially a good management tool, were not understood and were not received with the enthusiasm that should have been. That means we're busy with knowledge, but we know that we get the best out of Norwegian school by going into dialogue, listening and learning, and then making decisions. The national tests are a very good example of how we are now doing this on the part of our government, which will give us national tests that will work, as opposed to the previous government, which unfortunately made the school a battlefield – and unfortunately made this an ideological question. Because this is not an ideological question. National tests are simply a common tool to improve school performance. That means that our government, unlike the previous government, has knowledge as its main objective. And then we know that dialogue, cooperation and focusing on the results for the student are the most important, not ranking in the newspapers.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-05.ana.ud2070e255	Anders Anundsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-05.ana.ud2070e258	I have noted that the Council of State's reference to national tests is now quite different from that of the election campaign, and I expect that his constituents have also noted. Transparency is important to control and to compare. As a long-standing local politician on the school side, I have used the school portal.no very actively to compare different schools with the decisions we are going to make locally. We have used it to see what it is that school that does well for its students – which other schools can also benefit from. Therefore, SV, which is otherwise focused on transparency, is now taking away both local politicians, parents and students from the insight into the performance of individual schools. I don't think the Council of State has responded very well to why the Council of State fears transparency about information about the results of each school.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-05.ana.ud2070e267	We facilitate transparency for those who are affected and who benefit from the results. That means it's the school, and the school owner, of course, but also the students and the parents, who will be the ones to improve student performance. By having the general openness that the previous government had on this, the focus was completely gone. The background for the national tests is that we should measure the primary knowledge of the student in the basic field, and then, based on that information, we should improve the student’s performance through targeted action in the school. What we noticed last time was that the purpose of the national tests came out of focus, it simply came into "unfocused"; it was the ranking of so-called good and bad schools by the newspapers that came into focus. Let me give you an example: a school that manages to improve student outcomes from 3.1 to 3.3 on average — if you succeed with a large minority student intake — has a higher educational performance than a school in Oslo West, which has a result of 4.3. The starting point is that the national samples do not measure the quality that improves the student’s performance. That's why we're now again focusing on how to make the national tests a tool, an appropriate, good tool, for the school, and not a ranking where you sort of rank good or bad schools, which we know give a misleading result in terms of performance.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-05.ana.ud2070e276	Ola T. Lånk – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-05.ana.ud2070e279	I can agree with the Council of State's statement that the national tests are primarily a tool for improving the school. The Christian People's Party has been in favour of national tests based on this, because we want to provide schools with an important basis for adapting training to individual students. I think it's also good to admit that there has been a need to carry out a thorough review of how these tests have been, so that they can operate as best they can in accordance with their purpose. It has also been said in the press release of the Council of State that it is primarily those who are to make use of these tests that will make them available. The most important thing is that they are used by those who are going to benefit from them. That's how far we get. But the question that I do not think the Council of State has answered well today is how to manage to inform so that on the one hand he ensures that there will be no kind of unhealthy competition, because we do not want that, at the same time as there is no unlucky secrecy around these tests, because I think that will harm the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-05.ana.ud2070e289	The previous national samples received a rather merciless evaluation of independent ILS. The evaluation of these by the ILS clearly shows that a break was needed, and it was necessary to think through how to reintroduce an appropriate tool to the school. Now, what we're saying is that we want the results available to those concerned, and then we're going to gain some experience with the future. We see that our neighbouring countries have chosen a different approach to openness around the national tests. It is very clear that this is a tool for the school, the students, the parents and the people involved, and not for ranking in the newspapers, because it ignores the purpose of national tests, namely to improve pupils' performance in primary school skills. We're in the process of how we're going to do this, and we're going to get back to Stortinget with how we want this. As of today, I do not have answers to many of these questions. We know where we want to go, but we don't know how to organize this. Of course, we also need that information to be available to those who want to improve the school. It's important to us. The whole purpose of the national tests is for students to increase their skills and for us to improve their knowledge at school.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-05.ana.ud2070e298	Odd Einar Dørum – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-05.ana.ud2070e301	I have the reflection at the beginning of the question that if you chose such a demanding and challenging title as ‘Minister of Knowledge’, at least I as a citizen in this country would be careful to use words like making school a battlefield. So to the matter that's the theme. Both for the Left and for the State Councils, I perceive that the school is a social project. When the school is a community project, I think the Council of State has a rather narrow definition of those involved, so he lists students, teachers, parents and people involved in the community. Then we're all there! And we actually also agree that we should not rank. Then I don't get the point of closing the school gate.no, because it gives insight, such as. The representative Anundsen referred to. I note that the Council of State actually stands for a line of less publicity here. I then have to ask a question: is there any other area of activity within the remit of the Council of State where he believes that there are results that should be the most difficult for the public to know and know?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-05.ana.ud2070e310	I record that even former Clemet State Council believes that the national tests she introduced had to be shut down, because the evaluation was so merciless. Therefore, there is reason to say that the school unfortunately became a battlefield for a political experiment, and that the tests did not become a tool to make the school better. That's what we're now going to do differently. Therefore, I am pleased to note that Education Norway now believes that the approach that our government has taken to these issues, namely to introduce this gradually, to ensure that the quality is present, and to ensure – not least – that they understand the need and usefulness of national tests is good. I would think that much of the debate that preceded the national tests, and which, not least, the students were very engaged in, and had great demonstrations against, was due to the importance of the national tests for improving the knowledge of the students, completely undershadowed the publication of results and ranking in the newspapers of which schools were so-called good and not good. We now want to draw attention back to why national testing is a good tool in school. I am pleased to note that the only people who are not satisfied with what we are doing are the former government parties, who unfortunately did national tests that were slaughtered in a public evaluation.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-05.ana.ud2070e319	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-05.ana.ud2070e322	I have a question to the Council of State Kristin Halvorsen. On Monday, the Government came with a consultation note with proposals for amendments to the Biotechnology Act. The Soria Moria Declaration states: «The Government will revise the Biotechnology Act in order to open up research on surplus fertilised eggs under specific conditions, including stem cell research, and to limit the use of preimplantation diagnostics.» The Christian People's Party is surprised that the consultation note goes much further in a liberal direction than the Soria Moria declaration. The process towards the hearing note is also striking, as the Christian People's Party pointed out in the last week's spontaneous Question Time. The government’s revision of the Biotechnology Act is characterised by rough driving and irresponsible urgency, and the Biotechnology topic, which is the Government’s main adviser in the field, has not been given time to deal with the issue properly. The hearing note now available opens up to create children who can supply tissues to a sick brother or sister. This means that we use one child as a means in an uncertain attempt to help another. It is not ethically sound, in the eyes of the Christian People's Party. The reactions to the consultation note from the government parties' representatives are many and varied – from Jan Bøhler's statement that we should be the best in the world, to statements where some of the government parties' representatives are distancing themselves from parts of the content of the consultation note. My question to the Council of State is as follows: Is SV satisfied with the process prior to the presentation of the hearing note and can SV join the hearing note as it now exists? And: Is it open that the debate and the consultation round can give other conclusions?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-05.ana.ud2070e342	We are now in the situation that I have received a question that does not fall under my constitutional responsibility to Stortinget, so I would like to start by saying that this is the Minister of Health who is responsible for, and she is also responsible for the draft consultation and progress in this matter. But I can add a few comments to this. This is a matter that has been under discussion from the SV's side, and I have also been very involved in the difficult ethical debates that such a question raises. This was also the topic of SV’s national meeting, and preimplantation diagnostics and research on fertilised eggs were opened. We see the proposal that has now been put to the hearing as a movement in relation to Norwegian legislation in that direction. That is also what the Soria Moria Declaration says. So I would like to reject the fact that the government has agreed that this is a matter to be dealt with urgently, for it is now sent out to ordinary hearing in three months. Of course, a consultation round should mean that you also listen to the recordings and points of view that are coming. But the government is behind what the Minister of Health recommends in the draft consultation.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-05.ana.ud2070e351	The President is aware that this issue does not fall within the responsibility of the Minister of Finance. She decided then even if she would answer. She has answered, and she decides even if she will continue to answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-05.ana.ud2070e354	I thank the Council of State for the answer. However, I am a little uncertain and will once again ask whether the Council of State can confirm that this round of consultations is actually going to be real, and whether the Government will be willing to change the final proposal before possibly presenting it to the Stortinget. The other thing that's also interesting is that there are strong commercial forces that are behind, and that are ready to get this industry going. Jan Bøhler, one of the Workers' Party's representatives, has said that the time is ripe for it; we want a more active industrial policy. So I also have a question about how SV will prevent commercialisation of this area and simply prevent commercial forces from controlling development. But the most important thing is: does it seem that the government can actually change the proposal, given the response of the consultation round?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-05.ana.ud2070e363	I would like to stress once again that the concrete questions about the content of what has now been put to the hearing are the responsibility of the Minister of Health to Stortinget, and I suggest that the representative come back to her with that. On a general basis, I can say that the Government has shown which proposals the Government is in favour of, in the consultation note sent out. A hearing process is real. This means that the views of those who express their opinion on this matter are, of course, taken into account when the Government will make its final proposal for the Storting and, of course, will also be reflected in the material presented to the Stortinget. Then I have to say that these are demanding and difficult ethical questions. I think there are different views in most parties about this. It's getting closer to what we consider to be strong beliefs. We are satisfied that you are moving forward carefully in this field. I think very much of the further development will depend on having a public, reflective debate, because the representative is right to have the strong interests behind it that want a maximum release. It is not a maximum release the Government has sent at the hearing.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-05.ana.ud2070e374	The President is of the opinion that these issues should be further elaborated when the Constitutional Council of State is present in Stortinget. Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-05.ana.ud2070e380	Many teachers experience that they are exposed to a significant degree of red tape in school everyday life. I would like to stress that this is a matter that is far from the working time agreement between KS and the teacher organisations, which is not to be dealt with today, nor is it addressed in my question. What we have to take inwards is a considerable frustration among the teachers, who experience a bureaucratic everyday life, and that they get less time for teaching. The bureaucracy may act as meetings that many experience as useless. It may be a case of individual decisions which take all the time available. There may be simple decisions that make the teacher sit alone in coordinating e.g.: special training measures against health authorities and other authorities. The teacher will sit as an administrator, with some demanding juice. It is felt to be tiring. It may also be a general experience of an unmanageable form field. One teacher said this in a recently published report: we have a lot of office and paperwork, a lot of reporting. Where does it become of the subject, of being in class, of teaching? Why isn't anyone talking about it? We're here to add the students' knowledge. I thought that was the core. That administration takes a lot of a teacher's everyday life, we've got a lot of examples in recent times. Let me stress, because I spend a lot of time on it myself, that it's important to talk to the teachers, and not about them. It is important to take frustration seriously. The solution to a better school has been published by The Economist, among others. recently prescribed, with the words teachers, teachers and teachers. With respect to reporting: I call for a clear attitude and will from the Council of State Djupedal to take this frustration in the hands of the teachers. I ask for a hint: how can it be that the Council of State has such a lack of curiosity and indifference to this frustration of the teachers, who are not allowed to live their legation as good teachers and knowledge intermediaries?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-05.ana.ud2070e399	Let me first say that I think this is a good question -- talking about the teacher and the teacher's infinite role in the class, towards the student and in society. I must allow myself to say that we have four years behind us with a government where the representative Odd Einar Dørum set up as a minister, where this was not a topic. If it is that the bureaucracy of Norwegian school has been a significant problem, it has, of course, been under the previous government, of which Dørum was part, and also under the government of which he was a member before that. This is what I'm concerned about. We as the government are concerned about how to recreate a teaching role where the teacher is an authority without being an authoritarian, where the teacher has knowledge, contagious enthusiasm for science and learning. It's an important part of what we're doing now with the Knowledge Lift. We are now spending almost NOK 2 billion – that is the last figure – on teacher refresher training, teacher empowerment. This was also done by the previous government. It is passed on by our government. Just this year, I think it's more than 300 million. spending on state resources for the enhancement of teachers’ competences. This is part of strengthening the teaching role, the teacher as a professional authority in the class. Obviously, that's what we're concerned about. So there are many different relationships that play into school everyday life that make the teacher necessarily have to attend meetings, necessarily do paperwork, which also has to do with the students, which has to do with the everyday life of the school, and which has to do with reporting, which we also want to do. Our government is keenly concerned that we should look at how we can do this better, how we can make it less bureaucratic – if it is possible to make it less bureaucratic – how we can recreate teachers who without being authoritarian have this authority in the class. But let me also say that during this first six months as a knowledge minister, I have had close contact with Norwegian teachers – even closer than I had during my many years here at Stortinget. And I have to say that meeting teachers and students is one of the things that pleases me the most, seeing the contagious joy that educators have, and seeing the enthusiasm they have for the students and bringing knowledge to the new genealogy. As a general consideration, of course, it is true that the school can be bureaucratic, but fortunately we have very many skilled and enthusiastic teachers in Norwegian school. Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-05.ana.ud2070e412	The President will also make the special consideration that Council of State Djupedal is very good at going beyond time, and encourages him not to continue with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-05.ana.ud2070e415	I'll smear more at the clock.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-05.ana.ud2070e420	It's good we have «passion» – so do I, President! I was in a government that took the teaching role so that they really came with the Knowledge promise, because we knew that there had not been any ‘Gymnas teacher Pedersen’ reform across the country, but almost a reformed pedagogical spirit, which sounded so that if you know the teaching technique well, it's not that dangerous if you don't know the subject. The Bondevik II government did something about this. You came with the promise of knowledge, where you just went into the nucleus for the teachers to be good. Now I find that the Djupedal Council agrees. He has actually been the Council of State for approx. Six months, so he doesn't need to talk about the pastors. I have asked a written question to the Council of State about bureaucracy. I got a formal answer saying it was only about the working time agreement. There has been a little more recognition since that answer. If we, for example, Is the topic of red tape related to individual decisions becoming my question – very concrete: What will the Council of State do to ensure that individual decisions relating to special training are handled in such a way that the student gets well, and the teacher gets well, and that there is cooperation across ministerial and ethical boundaries? It will be a real challenge for the Council of States to take on board.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-05.ana.ud2070e433	The level of knowledge is introduced into the autumn. A cross-political Norway was behind it. The school is now prepared for the Knowledge Lift. There will be a significant challenge for teachers, for school owners and not least for students and all those who are engaged in Norwegian school, that this will be good. We're now doing what we can to bring information out to everyone who's busy with this. We're going to make sure that the promise of knowledge actually becomes, as it stands in the name, a boost to knowledge in Norwegian school. The ministry is doing what we can. We are pleased with the support that Stortinget gives to this work, because Stortinget is an important precursor to how the Knowledge Promise is to be implemented. When it comes to figuring out how to red tape the school on a general basis, it is to say, this will be a responsibility that the school owner and the school manager will have to take on a case-by-case basis. In practice, it will be completely impossible for the ministry to go into each case and say that this is to be done in this way, and be made less bureaucratic. But I'm concerned that if there's anything we can do from our side that facilitates a less bureaucratic everyday life in School-Norway, then we're going to turn the stones that we can turn to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-05.ana.ud2070e442	There will be follow-up questions – first Anders Anundsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-05.ana.ud2070e445	The public sector has a tendency towards red tape, as the Progress Party has pointed out for 30 years — including in the school sector. There is one tool that is good for preventing a lot of red tape, and that is competition. In many public service areas, competition has proved to reduce red tape and to streamline public service providers. The Progress Party believes that competition is an important tool in achieving effective governance. Does the Council of State agree that the law on free schooling as it applied to the previous government has helped to reduce red tape in schools that have been exposed to this competition, as has been the case in Sweden?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-05.ana.ud2070e452	As a general consideration, it is to say that bureaucracy is completely independent of the model used. Postponing a municipality to a greater degree of privatisation and competition contributes to more bureaucracy, as there are several papers being examined and tested. Our government has a different view of the law on free school than the previous government had. A temporary freeze of the law is now for treatment in Stortinget, so it is Stortingen that treats this process further. We'll come back to a permanent law of free school. It comes to the hearing next fall, and is presented to the Storting next spring. In terms of red tape in general, relating to privatisation, I believe that most of the empirical evidence of this is not about less bureaucracy, but on the contrary.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-05.ana.ud2070e461	Gunnar Gundersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-05.ana.ud2070e464	Djupedal is allowed to exercise his special boss, and that's to shoot at the previous government for everything that's wrong. Now he's been in government for a while, so he should start focusing on finding solutions and not leading the school further into the fog house. That's a general comment. I also talk to a lot of teachers about the situation, and I have got a rather nuanced picture of this – from the experience of a very bureaucratic everyday life, to the fact that there is no problem. This is linked to a general social development that requires more evidence, requires more requirements, and requires more follow-up of the individual student. It's actually something that we also want to do, and you can't do so much with it. The point is that the school is a local responsibility. My impression is that you have to find the answer locally. No one wants a red tape of the everyday lives of teachers. The resources that have benefited the school, with half a million extra teachers last year, need to benefit from increased learning. I would like to ask if the Minister of Knowledge shares the view that this is primarily a local responsibility to address.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-05.ana.ud2070e472	As I said in my previous answer, it is primarily a responsibility for the school owner and for the school management to facilitate the least possible bureaucracy and the most pedagogical exercise of the profession, in the class or in the preparation. But I'm willing to see if there's anything we can do in the department. That's why I also said that I want to turn the stones that we can turn around, to see if there's anything that we can do better by the department or the directorate, so that there's less bureaucracy. At the same time, it is quite right, as the representative says, that very much of the paperwork being done is linked to the legal certainty of the individual student, linked to special decisions concerning the individual student, which in fact require a responsible treatment of the school and its partners in such matters. That means that it is not necessarily right to say that the answer to this is less bureaucracy, but I agree that initially the school and the school owner should be the ones who facilitate as much pedagogical work as possible and minimal paperwork.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-05.ana.ud2070e479	Ola T. Loan - to the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-05.ana.ud2070e482	It is not difficult to agree that it is important to reduce red tape, not least in order to realise this important promise of knowledge launched in the autumn, where the vision is to create an even better school through a common commitment to strengthen the basic skills of the students, while also having a role as a value-distributor and as a provider of education, education and culture. You can't get past the fact that the teachers, as the representative Dørum also stressed, are a very central resource in school. No one is now worthy of a high level of conflict. I think it's also a side of this. I just want to focus on the other side, on those who have responsibility for the employers for the teachers, and ask the Council of State, who has the overall responsibility for the implementation of the Knowledge promise, on what dialogue, what contact, for example. is with the KS in the context of the achievement of the overall objectives of the school. Have procedures been implemented for such a dialogue? Can the Councils answer that?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-05.ana.ud2070e489	I'm a little surprised that a big-time representative brings up negotiations between the social partners, where we're not a party, in Storting's Question Time. Negotiations between teacher organisations and KS are handled by KS and teacher organisations. Of course, we have contact with both the KS, the Education Association and other teacher organisations on general issues, but not on questions related to this. These are issues addressed by the parties. We have delegated this responsibility. That means they have to deal with this issue as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-05.ana.ud2070e496	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-05.ana.ud2070e499	My question goes to the Minister of Finance. Right will spread power, also ownership. We want more employees to have the opportunity to become co-owners of the company in which they work. We have also made a concrete proposal on this in the Stortinget. ICT Norway and the thinking tank Monday morning have produced a thorough report showing both good national and international experience of co-ownership of the company. In Norway, employees are co-owners, among others. in Norwegian, in Mamut and in Road Deck, and the experience is very good. International experience shows that enterprises in which employees are co-owners provide greater motivation for employees. It's lower sick leave. It appears, among other things, that in France, the profitability of enterprises where employees are joint owners is higher than that of other enterprises. Participation among employees can also contribute to local ownership. The right and the red-green disagree with regard to private ownership. We want more private ownership. But I am very surprised that the red-green government with the finance minister at the head is opposed to the fact that employees should be more able to become co-owners in their own business. In a letter to Stortinget, the Minister of Finance of the Right rejected the proposal to grant a larger tax discount to employees buying shares in their own company. She also sees no need for a broader investigation to promote ownership of employees in Norway. I have to ask the question: what makes the Socialist Left Party and the Red-Green Government, which really wants greater ownership of employees, so against the fact that employees are going to be able to buy shares at a discounted price and thus become joint owners in their own company?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-05.ana.ud2070e512	The representative, Sanner, is concerned with what is at the heart of the question: not if you want or don't want employees to be partners in your own company, but how much tax incentives you have to give – or tax relief, for anyone who isn't inside the jargon. How much tax relief is it possible to lubricate with to encourage employees to own shares or to be partners in their own company? That's where the disagreement goes. I think this discussion is exciting. We've actually approached from both the right and the left in the discussion of how employees can have a greater ownership of and greater influence over their own business. The left-hand response has often been accompanied by corporate democracy and the ability to participate and influence that way, while the Right's response is more tax-stimulating ownership. This discussion seems to me to be going. I do not agree with the proposals put forward so far by the Right. It's about several things. On the one hand, we are going to have a fair tax for employees who make about the same thing, and on the other hand, it is clear that those who work in and own their own business are becoming very vulnerable and dependent on the development of the company. That is probably the incentive you see to be stimulated by tax measures. But it also has a backside that one who depends on the salary of an enterprise also has significant interests in the same enterprise.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-05.ana.ud2070e521	I am pleased that the Minister of Finance sees this as an exciting debate. She obviously could not have read the letter that she sent to Stortinget. It shows that she does not see it as a goal that employees should be more partners in her own company. She does not want a broader investigation of how we can promote co-ownership. It is a great paradox that a finance minister who accepts that management of a company may have favourable option arrangements does not want the employees of the company, the warehouse worker, the engineer, the worker to have shares in his own company. There's a little bit of old-fashioned thinking in the red-green parts. It seems that there is still a contrast between employees and owners. By stimulating employees to own shares, this distinction is being built down. I think it becomes even more important in a modern labour market where the fight for knowledge becomes more important. Is it the case that the Council of State has now changed its position, and that she is actually open for further investigation, in order to promote company ownership?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-05.ana.ud2070e528	Firstly, it is not right that the representative claims that I should be in order, for example. option agreements and gigantic pension schemes to top managers of companies are not only to be distributed to the extent that they are now being made, and which we have too many examples of, but also to be lubricated with favourable tax agreements. It's getting too messy. So today there are some, rather weak, tax incentives in relation to employees who own shares in their own company. The disagreement between the representative, Sanner and myself, is primarily about how – should favourable tax arrangements encourage employees to buy shares in their own company? I have not thought that has been a good tool so far. Another discussion is whether there are other ways to do it, or whether that discussion always ends in tax relief, like on the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-05.ana.ud2070e535	There will be follow-up questions – Peter Skovholt Gitmark.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-05.ana.ud2070e538	I share the representative Sanner's characteristic of the Council of State as old-fashioned on this issue. It's modern for employees to be owners in their own company. This can be seen, among other things: in part of our new IT company, where more and more people own parts of the companies they work for. This leads to better profitability in the company, showing surveys. They also show that you get lower sick leave. At the same time, it is profitable for both the company and employees to lock the firm's long-term competence. But if the Council of State does not want to be involved in looking at the Right Solution in relation to the fact that more employees are to be made joint owners, what is the Council's concrete answer to the question of how to meet more employees in the modern labour market as joint owners?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-05.ana.ud2070e546	Firstly, I think that the representative Skovholt Gitmark's description of how this works today, as many are actually partners in their own company, with today's rules and tax legislation, shows that there is no need to lubricate this with any additional comprehensive tax relief to get to what the representative from the Right is looking for. This tendency to think tax relief every time you see something you want to achieve, I don't agree. I think it undermines respect for the tax system in the long term. I believe much more in discussing this transparently with examples and in the public debate, and that in this case it is what can inspire others to want a similar arrangement. But I have to say that this is not the answer to all the challenges you face in your life. There are many employees who will be better served with a normal employment relationship with their employer.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-05.ana.ud2070e555	Jørund Rytman – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-05.ana.ud2070e558	I think the answer to the Minister of Finance is a little strange. Some years ago, the Financial Committee had a similar proposal for consideration, and I have looked a little further into the comments of various parties in this regard. The members of the Labour Party said in a note: ‘These members will ask the Government to go through the legislation of the arrangements that promote the ability of employees to buy shares in their own company as part of their efforts to promote long-term and active ownership.’ And then the center party added the following comment: ‘These members consider it important that employees can be co-owners of their own business, both for the company’s business and also as a contribution to ensuring Norwegian ownership of the business. These members therefore believe that the Government should review existing rules that stimulate or restrict the possibility of employee participation in its own enterprise.» If I do not remember correctly, the party program of SV also says that they are positive to a separate law on employee ownership in companies. Around Europe today, we see that it is precisely the trade-organised and politicians on the left who are working to ensure that employees become co-owners. Can the Minister of Finance tell why politicians on the left-hand side of Norway are not so concerned about this now?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-05.ana.ud2070e573	The representative of Rytman forgets that there are no promises there that such a development will be lubricated with significant tax relief in the tax system. And I want to remind you that if you go into different forms of tax subsidy, you get into a system where people in normal employment get worse than those who can benefit from these tax changes. It's not a development that we want, nor is it a development that the whole tax reform wants, because there was the whole point of having equal taxation of equal income, no matter what kind of source it had. So I agree that this is an interesting issue – we would like to discuss different rules and regulations – but my political view is that this is not a development that we want to lubricate with comprehensive tax relief.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-05.ana.ud2070e580	Hans Olav Syversen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-05.ana.ud2070e583	We in the Christian People's Party think it's positive that employees actually want to go into business as owners. I have a hard time seeing what would be negative about that. So the council says it's an exciting discussion. But when you read the answer from the Minister of Finance, you see that you go big and say that the Right's proposal can have a negative impact on the long-term value creation and that it can contribute to financial instability in the stock market. It's very dry, you ask me, to claim that partnership in your own business has that effect. In Dagbladet it was said that the Minister of Finance had undergone an extreme transformation, and I am essentially a little questioning as to whether the answer she has given is also a result of it. Is it actually the case that SV believes that it is wrong for workers to own parts of the means of production?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-05.ana.ud2070e592	First of all, this essay in the newspaper, which must have been written on a rather failed basis. There you start with a sort of myth that SV has poured oil billions out with both hands, without looking at what has been the facts: that SV has followed the previous government's draft budget for the last four years – on a dot for two of the years, a little more in a year that we had high unemployment, a little less lately – so I'm very happy to get that question, so I can solve just this. Then there are counter-conceptions against employees and partners in an enterprise having significant parts of their annual income from what is the development of the share. It is clear that this can lead to short-term thinking in relation to the development of the company, and that is a real argument against a comprehensive tax incentive for owning shares in the company.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-05.ana.ud2070e599	Gunn Berit Gerit - for the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-05.ana.ud2070e602	I am surprised that the Council of State and the Swedish Government do not see more clearly the importance of people working in a company being co-owners themselves, and also of this being based on short-term thinking. I can't understand that, because it's their own place of work that is then at stake. The Industry Committee has been on its way to Poland and also had a meeting with a Norwegian company that had started a subsidiary in Poland. They added were co-owners themselves, and it was an enterprise with a tempestuous development. But they had put the family's economy at risk to invest. Doesn't the Council of State think there would be more people who took the chance to be co-owners and start their own businesses with jobs for themselves and others if it was a little better at cost and they didn't have to risk their family's finances?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-05.ana.ud2070e609	I don't know how it's taxed in Poland in relation to co-ownership in my own company. But it's clear that here the representative is involved in what's the dilemma of such a development, because if you don't just have an employee relationship, but you're also a member of your own company, you're going to risk your own personal economy to a much greater extent to your own workplace. It is, of course, the uncertainty that individual partners or founders are at risk. The discussion that is going on here, and the disagreement that may arise, is on the extent to which we are going to ensure that this type of development is lubricated by favourable tax arrangements and that it is itself part of the decision that a worker may take in relation to being a partner in an enterprise. There's a disagreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-05.ana.ud2070e616	Let's move on to the next and last main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-05.ana.ud2070e620	The question is to the Minister of Knowledge. ==References== 6 pst. special education is given by primary school students. ==References== 4 per million will be offered in special schools. There are almost no special offers for students with special learning difficulties, except for full-time training courses with highly varying local adaptation. The special school offer in Norway has almost disappeared, and there are only a few municipalities left to provide pupils with particularly large learning difficulties with an organized teaching system in their own school if their parents want it. A NTNU report shows that only two out of ten students with special training needs feel included in school activities. Three out of four special students don't play with peers in the spare minutes at school. Norwegian education policy thus integrates many students into solitude in ordinary school, and they have been deprived of the option of choosing an alternative scheme. The students have been offered the offer to the municipality and the individual school is able to provide, and several parents doubt that their children are becoming more confined and depressed, and that they are showing a decline in school. It is important for students with learning difficulties to have a worthwhile and constructive day-to-day school with the greatest possible benefit for the individual. Such an organised offer may be made in or outside ordinary school, and the Progress Party proposed 50 million in the budget. kr for this type of education. No one's to be forced out of school. However, those parents who believe it would be an advantage for their child to have a specially organised offer in a separate class or in a separate school with extensive competence and adaptation to the students’ assumptions are not currently given the opportunity to choose it. In addition, Norway is one of three OECD countries lacking information on the actual educational offer given to mentally impaired students. Why will the Council of State continue to refuse parents to choose a wider professional environment and a more adapted offer for their children, by continuing to prevent the establishment of special schools?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-05.ana.ud2070e635	This is a question that is extremely demanding, because here it is very often that there are no clear, good answers. The Norwegian law and our government's starting point is that all students in school should meet at the level they are, with the possibility of adapted training, i.e. that the school shall meet them in caring for their individual prerequisites and skills. Many parents want their children to go to high school, some parents want something else. It is quite right, as the representative says, that we are one of the few countries in the OECD area that do not have extensive knowledge of how these children are doing in Norwegian school. It surprised me when I got to know it, and that is why we have now started an investigation of it. In addition, I have taken the initiative to monitor how the students experience the school and how the students experience their own everyday life. I record that someone in the public debate says that these children are lonely and to a small extent are included in leisure activities, and in that way falls outside what is the school arena. Other parents say the opposite. On the contrary, they say that my child goes to a secondary school and plays with other children, has made my child infinitely richer and has improved its professional qualities, and that it is in every way a good solution. That means you have to be very careful about saying what is the optimal solution for this. As I said, we have now started a work on how the child is doing, and how the parents are doing. It is very clear that the child is not to be adapted to the system, but the system to be adapted to the child. This will be our starting point in relation to how we go on with these questions. But let me also say that the special schools we had in Norway are happy to have graduated. They were obsessed with very much that we now actually shouldn't rip up in, and it was right that these were put down. Our starting point as government and my starting point as minister is that we are because the children are included in the secondary school, but we're now going to start from how the situation is experienced for the parents and the children, and then we'll take it from there.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-05.ana.ud2070e648	I would like to thank you for the answer, and I think the answer was basically positive compared to the fact that the Council of State has begun to address this situation. I also expect the Council of State to be concerned that the freedom of choice for parents must be at the heart of the follow-up to the investigations that are coming. Moss municipality is one of the few municipalities with a special school offer for students with special learning difficulties. The municipality has experienced the relocation of parents and families who have children with special challenges. Moss SV writes in its program that Moss SV wants: ‘Moss special educational centre/Yeløy school is maintained and developed as a local competence centre’. Jeleø school offers an offer to students with major and complex learning difficulties and major social and emotional difficulties. Does the Council agree with Moss SV that this offer and similar offer are important in the further follow-up of students with particular learning difficulties? And could the Council of State in case encourage other municipalities to consider such an offer?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-05.ana.ud2070e662	Our starting point is that all children are to be met by a school that takes care of their individual skills and gives them opportunities in life. That means that the answer for each child is not given and is not equal. That means that there is a high degree of variation in Norwegian school in how to deal with these issues today, and I have great respect for that. What we have now started from the Department is an examination of how children with developmental difficulties meet in school, how they experience their everyday lives, how parents experience their everyday lives. I think this is a very reasonable starting point in relation to which political action you would then consider in retrospect. But let me be clear that I believe that the integration of these students into Norwegian school has been an enrichment for Norwegian school, and essentially also an enrichment for these children. The fact that we're not hiding our weakest, but that our weakest is part of the reality we have around us is an important quality of a society. Then we have to make sure that these children get the best possible training offer, and we will come back to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-05.ana.ud2070e667	There will be follow-up questions – Jon Hunter Gåsvatn.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-05.ana.ud2070e670	In recent years, we have seen that more and more schools face increasing problems related to integration, pupils with learning difficulties, students with concentration difficulties, etc. Noise levels in Norwegian schools have never been higher, and many children complain that school is not challenging enough. At the same time, we see this as PISA and TIMSS studies confirm that our students score worse than ever in the international studies. I think the transition from three-year-old to four-year-old teacher school was the right way to go, but at the same time I'm more concerned about the content of teacher training. Evaluation reports are common in most other contexts, and it would be very interesting to see whether newly educated teachers consider the studies they have conducted to be relevant in relation to the working situation as a teacher. All children, and especially children with special learning challenges, need clear leadership. In my opinion, it is very important that teachers take this leadership role. Is the Council sure and comfortable that the subject content of teacher training is good enough to meet the many challenges that teachers face every day in the Norwegian school?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-05.ana.ud2070e675	I'm sure the teachers are generally competent enough to master the difficult profession of being a teacher. For teachers are far more, we know that, because there are many situations in classrooms, and many classes are marked by turmoil and strife – we know that many students report that. The reason for this can be complex, but being a good teacher is also dealing with all these demanding situations. Teacher training in Norway is good, but we will also return to Stortinget with teacher training at a suitable time. Our starting point is, and there I want to share the representative's approach: we need teachers who are competent in the classroom to impart knowledge, which arouses interest and motivates students to knowledge. So there's a lot of things that can interfere with this picture, and unfortunately, many classrooms are marked by anxiety. We have to do something about that. But initially, it will be up to the teacher, the school owner and the school manager how to put education up in a way that makes it as much noise as possible and alarm, and as much learning outcomes as possible for the student.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-05.ana.ud2070e682	Ola T. Lånk – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-05.ana.ud2070e685	The representative Anundsen talked about being integrated into loneliness, and as far as I remember, it was a book title a few years ago. I'm afraid that this might have become everyday for some students with special needs. Could it be that integration has just become a word, and that, in my view, the Progress Party's additional proposal is evidence that the integration of pupils with special needs may have fallen in this country? The Christian People's Party still believes that it is important that all students be included in school in a good way, and that children with special needs should also be able to attend the same school as other children in the community, but it takes time and money to do this. Now I understand that the Council of State will go a long way in taking action to try to fix this problem. The question is really the organisation of today's school, whether the way integration is organized today, works well enough. My follow-up question will then be: will the Council of State see whether there are other and better ways to organise integration within today's school, so that children with special needs can experience this inclusion as real?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-05.ana.ud2070e694	I have recorded with concern that many children, including their parents, are showing that they are lonely, that they are not professionally and socially integrated into school. I was surprised, as I said to a previous questioner, that we have so little knowledge of this in Norway, and we are one of the few countries in the OECD area that have no reporting on this. This means that we are now taking the initiative — and it is the Education Directorate that will carry it out — a study in which we ask parents and ask children how they actually experience the school situation. Are they lonely, are they professionally and socially integrated and included, which was the starting point for the law we have? From that point of view, we will then draw political conclusions. But what we also know is that there is a great variation between schools and between children with different disabilities. Many disabled children have it very well in their normal secondary school, thrives very well there and could not imagine being anywhere else. This may be because the pedagogues are competent, that the school is capable. Others feel lonely. That is why we need to know more about this, and that is why I have also taken this initiative by myself.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-05.ana.ud2070e699	Odd Einar Dørum – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-05.ana.ud2070e703	I share the opinion of the Council of State, that it is the students who must be in focus, and I am also pleased with the initiative he will take to ensure that one gets a survey with such a starting point. I also have the impression, which I am absolutely sure that the Council of State and I have in common, that this is so diverse that you have to be humble and see what the situation is. My reflection is that we may not be good enough, Norway as a whole, to capture the diversity that is the answer to this situation. I allow myself to say it with background in my own experience from Oslo School. The Oslo school has 126 primary schools, 24 secondary schools and 20 special schools, many of which are small. I don't want to go so far as to say that it gives a real choice, but it's quite obvious that it gives a greater diversity, and it gives a greater chance of catching up. Then there are places in Norway where special schools almost have such a name that you do what you can to pretend that people have never been there. Then we have places like this. Grimstad, where you have an intercommunal solution, where several municipalities cooperate, where I myself have been present and how people can get help. So my question to the Council of State is: Could it not be very useful if the Council of State also looked at this organisation and this diversity, for example. The Grimstad example, the Oslo example?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-05.ana.ud2070e710	The law allows too much localisation, provided that all children are provided with appropriate education. If you are not taught well enough, it is the county that is both the supervisory authority and the complaint authority. When you've chosen different approaches to this locally, it's a good experience we can take with us. Those who then, in their own opinion, do not receive good education for their children must complain to the supervisory authority, the county council, which will be the appropriate body to deal with such complaints. But our starting point is that the law opens up diversity. The law allows that there may be local level of adaptation for how to solve this, but then my starting point is again that it is the child that should be the most important. The system shall be adapted to the child and not vice versa. That means that the child's social and professional development is to be centered.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-05.ana.ud2070e717	Gunnar Gundersen – to the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-05.ana.ud2070e720	This is a demanding and difficult topic, and you could fear that the discussion would take off a little when you saw who pulled it up. I would also like to refer to the record in the evening post, where SV's representative Rolf Reikvam was quoted as saying: 'Depending on the student's viability, we are always going to defend integration.' Now I hear that Djupedal, the Minister of Knowledge, has a completely different approach, and I think that is fine, because that record shows a serious contempt for the fact that we are talking about individuals here. Everyone has different needs. For most people, I think integration is a good thing. I also think it's a good thing for the environments you enter, but it can't block because you also have to see that there may be other needs and needs for specialization. I really take what has been said as a confirmation that the Minister of Knowledge does not have such a unyanced view as that quote shows that the representative has, and is asking for confirmation of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-05.ana.ud2070e727	Our government's starting point is that integration has been a good thing. The special schools we've had were not worthy of either students or parents. Then we're in a situation where we see that many have questions about how children's education in school is. So let's start from this, and we'll figure out how the situation is being experienced by the child, by the parents. Then we'll go further from there, starting with that. It will be a significant challenge, of course, how we do this further, for our starting point is that integration has been of the good. But I'm recording that almost every questioner in today's Question Time has had a nuanced starting point, where there's nothing absolute or absolutely the other, but there might be a combination of this. It's because all children are unique. All children are different, have different levels of function and will therefore need different adapted levels of training. It is the professional and social development of the child, where the child is at the centre, which is the most important thing for our government. We'll come back to how we're going to do this, but first we have to figure out what the situation is.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-05.ana.ud2070e734	The time for the oral questioning process is over. Thus, today's map has been processed.
