ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e27	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr. – Other proposals are not available, and Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr is unanimously elected president of the Stortinget meeting today. The representative of Kari Kjønaas Kjos will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e34	I am delighted, on behalf of the representatives of Kenneth Svendsen, Harald T. Nesvik, Robert Eriksson and myself, to make a proposal that people who earn rights in popular security retain proportionate rights to disability pension even without three years of previous membership by returning to Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e39	The representative of Gjermund Hageseter will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e42	On behalf of the representative Ulf Leirstein and myself, I am delighted to propose that employer-paid communication services such as mobile phones and the Internet be exempt from tax.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e47	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e71	On Monday, the Storting received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following government councils will meet for oral Question Time: Minister for Foreign Affairs Jonas Gahr Council of State Anne-Grete Stroem-Erichsen Council of State Odd Roger Enoksen The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, would like to ask questions of substance. – We'll start with the first main questions from Per Ove Width.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e90	My questions go to the Minister of Defence. The defence has been characterised by poor political governance for several years. This can best be illustrated by the fact that until recently we have had a Minister of Defence who himself stated clearly that she had no control, nor an overview. My claim is that we have neither had nor had a military management that has control and overview. This can also be illustrated by all the misinvestments and misassessments that have marked the Defence over several years. We can take examples of how to try to scrap belt wagons – for which the Progress Party has fortunately put a stop – to the purchase of radars, the purchase of artillery that could not be provided for ammunition, etc., which has cost taxpayers billions of dollars in total. In the light of media redundancies around the so-called Siemens scandal, which is a suspicion of corruption in the defence, I have a few questions in the matter of the matter to the Council of State: How do the Councils of State view the organisational culture that appears to exist in parts of the Defence Management and Purchasing Regime? What measures have been targeted at the relevant departments and persons? And what measures have the State Councils taken to ensure the quality of the defence procurement and procurement regime? Furthermore, I want to know and get an answer to how the Council of State can defend that, in order to come to an end in suspicious transactions, a review committee has been set up to work on a number of different issues in parallel, with a future conclusion reportedly in June, when we know that this could result in staff related to the Siemens scandal continuing to sit and negotiate important agreements for the Defence.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e103	Let me first say that the defense is completely dependent on credible government, confidence in the population and trust in the Stortinget. It's important, because the defense is an important community institution, which manages great values on behalf of the community. With regard to the matter on which the representative Width asks questions, I would like to say in general that there has been a change in defence in recent years, a shift from a mobilization defence to a defence that sees completely different challenges and a completely different threat picture than a few years ago. That is why some investments have been made that cannot necessarily be adapted today, without my defending it. With regard to the matter in question, the Siemens case, it was one of the issues specifically mentioned when one month after I joined, I set up an external investigation committee to look at some of the ICT contracts, because internal audit had revealed facts that could indicate a breach of the rules in relation to the Defence Guidelines, and that it could be a criminal offence. After I joined, I have taken several measures. I would also like to point out that in April the Stortinget will be presented with a major communication on financial management and the measures taken in this respect.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e114	I am pleased that the Council of State mentions the word «trust» and that it must be recreated around the Defence. Now the changes in the Defence Department cannot defend all the strange things that have happened in recent years – there is no excuse, to put it that way. On the dayrevy two days ago, the Council of State stated that she had seized hold of this matter we are now talking about, as soon as she joined. She also confirms that now, and that's very good. But does the Council of State consider it reassuring that this matter should be examined for such a long time, when it is quite obvious what has happened? Should not the case be given the highest priority and be cleared as soon as possible, so that the reputation of the defence is not further weakened while the time goes on? In view of the fact that the Committee of Inquiry reports in June, as the Council of State has said, and that it is not unlikely that the Supervisory Committee of the Grand Duchy will look into the matter – most likely this could happen until the harvest, i.e. one year after the Council of State intervened – does the Council of State not think this will take too much time, when, as I said, much is evident?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e121	I understand you think it takes time. However, an internal audit has been carried out first, and on the basis of that, we reduced an external audit. There are many documents and many contracts to review for the review committee. Therefore, at least I see it as right to wait until the result of the investigation is available in June, and then I promise to follow up this case with the necessary measures, when we see what is revealed in the investigation report. The fact that Siemens still has a customer relationship with the Defence, I can also understand that questions are asked about it. But this is a major contract, which in any case cannot be concluded overnight, because it is a matter of major tasks with which the defense operates. But precisely because we have made ourselves dependent on external suppliers, we consider taking in many of these tasks ourselves, completing extensive consulting and seeing how we can do without being so dependent on external companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e128	The President will accept three follow-up questions – first Jon Lilletun.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e131	I would like to commend the Council of State for quickly reducing the selection she has outlined here. But what has happened over several years is that on the one hand, we are constantly told that the defence lacks money for necessary tasks, with dramatic descriptions of the reduction of defence, while at the same time we see that billions have actually gone to things that cannot be implemented and that are doubtful. We also see in one of the newspapers today that the defense has now burned 12,000 uniforms due to lack of stock. Doesn't that indicate that the unculture that we have is continuing? What will the Council of State do to restore the confidence that she herself said the defense was dependent on? What we popularly want, and what people most want, is to have confidence in the Defense as an organization. So I'll ask you, when we've seen today's lookup, has there been a change?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e138	I understand that the representative asks questions when it is negatively focused on parts of the business, which also affect the defence as a whole. I would also like to say that even though it is in the media that individual pisods are drawn out, which are large – I should not detract from them – it is still the way that most of the people who work in the defense do a decent job every day. So it's not going to be right to generalize. With regard to the question of whether there is an unculture in defence, I have also taken the initiative to draw up an action plan for attitude and management, an action plan to focus specifically on ethics and organisational culture. It is important from a migration perspective; it is important to follow up the organisation after the large shift that has taken place. I think it is absolutely essential that we should be able to re-enter the trust that might have disappeared.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e146	Lars Sponheim – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e149	I also want to commend the Council of State for putting down the Dalseide committee, which is going to work on these questions. I think that's important and correct. But the main issue today also shows that in the many complex issues of the Council of State there is always an opportunity to get to the Stortinget and get some easy solutions. I want to keep in mind that it's more complex than what came out of this main question. I assume that the Council of State helps to clean up the unculture that has been revealed here, and restores confidence, but most deeply this is about how to build purchasing practices in an organization that acts enormously. Not purchasing from those with whom they are accustomed to buying, but having good established arrangements for real and open competition that allow many suppliers to try out against each other, is crucial. In general, the public has not been very good at using electronic marketplaces for purchases. The defense is probably one of the best, but it's very close enough. Will the State Council further develop this and focus on the possibility of using electronic marketplaces, which allow transparency in purchasing and many more suppliers to compete for these tasks?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e154	It is clear that I am concerned that we are going to have a purchasing regime that is open, and that gives everyone the opportunity to compete for the defence mission. With regard to procurement procedures in general, the large IT system, which the Defence began to implement in 2001, contains parts that are not yet in place because the financial management system was started. It will also be important to get in place before you have the good and total purchasing regime – where you can see the data from an order until they are finally invoiced, so that the entire administration of the goods can be done in a good and reliable way.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e161	Per Roar Bredvold – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e164	Governments have answered questions from the main questioner Per Ove Width about Siemens and its role in defence – and vice versa. There is no doubt that many questions can be addressed about the handling of this project by the Defence Agency – and very many others, unfortunately. The question is, what will the defense do next, and what have we learned? In recent years, the defence has been characterised by many small and large scandals relating to purchases and investments that have proved to be of no benefit. As late as the evening post today, we can read that the defense has burned 39 tons of clothes. Much of this was new and could be used by today's soldiers – of type M98 and M77. You owe on storage capacity and the danger of theft. What about our weapons warehouses, etc.? As I have the latest follow-up questions, I give the Council of State the opportunity to answer more clearly if she wants to do what she can to make the defence even more effective in this area – go on its own, look at routines and tasks and quality assurance, for example. purchases of new fighter aircraft, etc.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e173	I have asked for a report on the procedures for disposing of equipment, precisely on the basis of what appeared in the notice in the evening post today, that there are burnt uniforms. I would say, however, that it costs a lot of money to maintain stocks. You have to keep looking at what's in stock and what's to be disposed of. So I have asked to be informed about this, and I want to say that we have tightened up on consulting – and the rules for consulting. I refer again to the Action Plan for Attitudes and Management. It is important to focus on an ethical administration in the Defence, for, as I said quite initially, the defence depends on trust and a credible administration.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e180	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e183	My question goes to the Minister of Oil and Energy. Statnett has recently submitted a report stating that Mid-Norway is facing a potential power crisis. During 2009, there may be a lack of 9 TWh with electricity in central Norway, and this corresponds to the entire consumption in Oslo today. State networks say that increased energy production needs to be delivered in the region, because there is no capacity on the grid to provide this. The Energy and Environment Committee has been in central Norway for two days and has studied this in greater detail. An overall Middle Norway – including centre party rapporteurs and workers’ party rapporteurs in the region – says that it is now necessary to continue to increase energy production in the region. What is good, according to Statnett's report, which is also documented by the local authorities, is that we are currently facing a decision-making crisis and not a power crisis. Decisions can still be made to ensure that sufficient power generation is available in central Norway, so that a two-price system is released and electricity prices are released much higher in central Norway than in the rest of the country. After raising these issues to the Council of State, he has largely been responsible for previous governments and Hydro, which have carried out important industrial power projects. What I'm doing now is actually inviting the Council of State to cooperate properly with the Stortinget, too, so that during the spring session we can make the necessary decisions and avoid the decision-making crisis and the power crisis in Central Norway. Now I challenge the Council of State specifically to look ahead. Will the Council of State use this invitation? And during the spring session, the Council of State and the Government will come up with concrete measures — and what concrete measures — to avoid a power crisis in central Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e196	It's an invitation I'd like to receive. I am of course prepared to cooperate with Stortinget in this context. I have spent a lot of time on the power situation in Central Norway since I took over as Minister of Oil and Energy last autumn – in dialogue with the industry in this area. In many ways, it is a luxury problem that we have come into a situation where we have industrial investment in an area that makes consumption increase much stronger in this area than it does in other parts of the country. It's a challenge to get production and transmission capacity in this area that makes you have a secure energy supply, and that you have prices that are equivalent to what you have in other parts of the country. I am very pleased with the many initiatives taken from various builders of gas power, not least the project that Statoil and Shell have jointly launched. This is one of the most exciting projects we have seen, where both the supply situation in Central Norway will be remedied and at the same time take care of CO2 and at the top of it all contribute to increased oil extraction on a Norwegian base. It is an exciting project, and the Government will do what it can to help realize it as quickly as possible. Now, however, we know that the realization of this type of project will take time, and that we can get a demanding period until this production is in place. There are also other builders who have applied for a concession, who have applied for an extension of their concession, and we have pre-announced cases. In addition, I have had close dialogue with Enova about the opportunities available in relation to renewable production in this area, which can be phased in in the relatively short term. In fact, it is not a negligible production, nor is it possible to get what can be done by this period until 2009. So this is what I'm concerned about, and I'm also concerned about cooperating with the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e212	First, I would like to say that I think it is positive that the Council of State now accepts the invitation from the Storting to cooperate, so that we can put in place the necessary energy production, and that he does not use this opportunity to just blame Hydro and his predecessors. Because it is actually possible to start the necessary energy production today. When we were in Nord-Trøndelag, we were told that Nord-Trøndelag E-verk has plans for 3 TWh wind power. They have been added to the page for the time being due to the fact that the Government has ‘scraped’ green certificates. Forests can start at any time with a gas power plant capable of producing 6 TWh, but so far there have been unclear signals from the Minister of Oil and Energy regarding the financing of a pipeline into Forest. In addition, it is also necessary to look at socio-economic developments in relation to other costs. For the moment, the Council of State says dialogue, dialogue, dialogue. But what are the concrete measures besides talking to Enova? What will the Council of State do – will he start production, so that we avoid this crisis?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e221	Now the representative Burne knows very well that it is not the Council of State that initiates production, it is actually the builders of force that do. One of the issues here is that, for example: Industrial power Mid-Norway has had a concession for very many years without being able to achieve a solution that involves the production of gas power in the forest, even during the previous government. There has never been any attempt on my part to blame my predecessors, or to blame Hydro. What I've said is that Hydro should be concerned about the supply situation in Middle Norway as a large consumer of energy. What I've said is that in terms of transfer capacity, we're late. This means that if you were to strengthen the network capacity in time, you should have started that work before. It's solid. There is no reason for wind power builders to wait to make their investment decisions. The government will present a scheme that would be better than a single certificate market with Sweden, with the mechanism it would have obtained with the negotiated result it was possible to achieve. The forest is not ready to start at any time. Forests will still take some time. If Forest decides to realize the gas power plant, we will also look at what we can contribute in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e229	The President will allow three follow-up questions – first Ketil Solvik-Olsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e232	We hear a lot of fine words from the Government about goals, but the Soria Moria declaration appears per. today as a road map to the power crisis. We are therefore not given any concrete measures that will speed up power generation. But the Council of State says that those who have wind power projects can only start. The problem is that when the Committee on Energy and the Environment is on the move, we get an overall feedback about, no matter who we are talking to, that nothing is happening in Kraft-Norway until they have clear framework conditions. Small power, in the case of wind power, and in the case of gas power. What measures does the Government have that will accelerate the build-up of power? We know that there will be a critical situation in Middle Norway in just a few years, and then one can not sit and wait for the future technologies. We need to clarify time horizons, costs and power volumes. During the examination of the State budget, the opposition promoted a proposal to draw up a comprehensive report on the state of energy in the state of the state of the state, which would show all these things in the context. It was then dismayed. Is the Government now ready to promote a key message with an energy policy action plan?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e239	I actually think that we know the supply situation in the country, and especially in Middle Norway, well enough. I don't think there is a need for a big message to describe that situation. A large-scale notification to describe that situation will be available at the earliest until the harvest – it will be dealt with in Stortinget, and action will be taken afterwards. There is a common procedure for the processing of a wholesale notification. I actually think it's necessary to act faster than that, get in place faster with measures to phase in renewable energy. That's what the government is working on right now. Unfortunately, as we did not manage to create a common certificate market with Sweden, we need to look at other instruments. There are a number of other instruments that would produce better results than a poor common Norwegian-Swedish certification market would have done. We'll present that in a very short time. It implies, as I say, that those who intend to invest in wind power have no reason to wait. It also applies to other types of investment, because they will be covered by the arrangements that we will present. And then, in fact, we're working under pressure to get the concessional stuff in the department.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e244	Line Henriette Holten Heimdal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e247	For the Christian People's Party, it is important to bring new power and also to focus on new renewable energy. But at the same time, it is a reality that the maintenance of the mains is very low. A little new has been built, and because the grid is so poorly upgraded, the current – 10-12 pst., and up to 30 pst. when it's cold. This year it's cold, and I'd say this is wasting energy. For Middle Norway, reinforced lines can help to ease the strained force situation facing that part of the country. Then my question becomes: What decisions can the Council of State notify the Stortinge will take in this area before winter 2006/2007, which can make a positive contribution to the power situation in Central Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e254	The representative Holten Heimdal points to a very central issue. We have had very low investments in transmission capacity for quite many years. It applies partly to the central network, also to the distribution system, or to the regional and local network. This is a challenge both in relation to increased consumption, not only in Central Norway, but also in relation to cross-border transmission capacity. In fact, it's one of the major limitations of wind power generation that we have a network of insufficient capacity between Troms and Finnmark and between Nordland and Nord-Trøndelag. This means that we have major challenges in this area, where Statnett is now working on its investment plans that are worth many, many billion dollars. What is the challenge, however, is that it takes time. Many of these network transfers are linked to environmental conflicts and the process will take time. But I would like to stress that it should not be on the handling of this from my side. We're already in a process to get ahead of this work.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e259	Gunnar Kvassheim – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e264	The central party's energy policy spokesman, Ola Borten Moe, strongly recommends facilitating the use of mobile gas power plants in central Norway. I guess this is cleared with the Council of State. Mobile gas power plants now appear to be the most visible part of the strategy to address the challenge in central Norway. Is the government ready to give its clear signal that such mobile gas power plants will be put in place? For the Left, it is essential that we make decisions that do not make use of these mobile gas power plants, which are highly polluting and low energy efficiency. Governments accepted the invitation to the Storting with a strategy to solve the challenge. Will there be concrete initiatives in this area to ensure the development of clean energy and the organisation of gas power plants with CO2 management?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e276	It is also a goal for the Government – and for me – to avoid having to implement temporary solutions in central Norway. However, we are aware that the situation is demanding. Before we can get the long-term solutions in place – which I am currently using most energy – it may be necessary to implement temporary solutions. Statnet is responsible for investigating and looking at temporary solutions that may be implemented in the event of a crisis — for example: in a dry year, or when one is otherwise unable to deal with the situation. Statnett is responsible for that, the work that Statnett has done, and Statnett did that already in 2002-2003 – when we had the last dry year – a great job. You're better prepared to deal with that kind of situation today than you were at the time. To the question of whether we will bring a case to the Stortinget in our area concerning energy in this area: Yes, we will come up with a case regarding renewable energy. In the case of the gas power concession for Statoil and Shell, it is likely to be slightly further ahead in time. [[President clubs]] It's not on us – it's on the investigations that the companies are going to make. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e287	The size goes on to the next main question. The President makes it clear that when the red lamp goes out, the speaking time is up. It's also a clock on every pulpit.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e292	I want to participate in a good work distribution in the Government. My question goes to the Minister of Foreign Affairs. The choices in the Palestinian territories have led to a new revolution in the Middle East usury: a choice that was well implemented resulted in Hamas having a pure plurality. The turbulence of many Palestinians, the turbulence of course also of Israel, the turbulent Arab neighbouring country – such as Israel. Egypt – and the turbulence of all those who have worked to find a solution to the Middle East conflict through peaceful negotiations. The reason for the turbulence is obvious: Hamas will not accept the State of Israel’s right to exist – they will erase it. Hamas will therefore not conduct peaceful negotiations with the State of Israel. Hamas, instead of negotiations, has been campaigning for violence, terror and hateful agitation against the Jews and against Israel. Hamas is adversaries of the peace process and – paradoxically enough – opponents of what made a Palestinian parliament possible. What was expressed in the first meeting there is probably the closest one to come a ‘Polish Parliament’ – they would immediately take considerable authority from the moderate president. The international community has supported the peace process with regard to both civil society and the building of democratic institutions. Members of the Quartet, the United Nations, the United States, the EU and Russia have made clear demands. It also has the Foreign Minister's front in a good way. If Hamas is to be further supported, the members of a Palestinian government must distance themselves from terror and violence. They must recognise the State of Israel and Israel's right to exist, they must accept the agreements concluded by the Palestinian authorities, and they must accept the Roadmap for Peace. I ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs to confirm that it is the institutions that will be based on further work.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e306	We are facing a very demanding situation throughout the Middle East. There are many conflict situations that are now intertwined and that affect each other – Afghanistan–Iraq–Iran Complex, Syria–Lebanon–Palestina–Israel and issues that link these situations. This six months is the election in Palestine and in Israel. The choice in the Palestinian territories has been well implemented. We're waiting for the Israeli elections, and we're waiting for the results of the Palestinian elections. What kind of government will the Palestinians choose? I want to stress that we, who belong in the West, should be careful to be taken to have double standards here too – in a situation where we can applaud democracy, but not accept the outcome of democracy. That doesn't mean we don't care about the government that had to come or the policies it had to take. From the Norwegian side, we have focused on the main lines of our position, which have been in place for many years: obtaining a solution that will end up enabling two States to live side by side in peace within internationally recognised borders having respect for the agreed distance from the use of violence to respect the Roadmap for Peace But at the same time, we must not formulate ourselves in such a way that we paint Palestinian leadership into a corner and force extreme attitudes in a situation where there may be movement. Norway wants to maintain support for the Palestinian people. Today, we are in a difficult situation with the international community in finding the form of this. We have to wait for what a government platform from a new Palestinian government will be. We have recently paid money to the Palestinian authorities, to the interim authorities under President Abbas. We'll observe this carefully. I can confirm that the main lines that the representative mentioned, and which I repeated in my reply now, are Norway's main position in the meeting with a new Palestinian government.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e336	I thank you for your answer. I share a lot of the analysis and many of the assessments that the Foreign Minister gave here. There has been a trend in the Norwegian debate to say — including the Minister for Foreign Affairs — that one should not behave in such a way that one does not accept the outcome of a well-implemented election. Of course, I agree with that – we are forced to accept the election result. But that doesn't mean that we can somehow accept the program that Hamas has had so far, or that we can accept and support a government that sticks to the restraints and practices that Hamas has had. Therefore, I feel the need for the Foreign Minister to be clear that respecting a choice does not automatically lead to an acceptance of any content. So I'm going to challenge the Foreign Minister again, and it's up to you if the provision for further support is going to be that these requirements are being met.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e343	I can confirm that there is no automatic Norwegian support for any other country in other parts of the world where we are also engaged with assistance. This is our main area of assistance. When I speak with a certain degree of openness in this situation, it's based on two confessions. One is that we must give the forces on the Palestinian side, including President Abbas, who want a move towards what we have been talking about – respect for agreements already concluded, respect for negotiations – room to work until the formation of a government. We don't know what that platform will be. We have to wait for it. The second is a deep fear and fear of impending collapse in Palestinian society, which the world is responsible for preventing. 130000 employees on the Palestinian side depend on the assistance provided through the PA, the Palestinian self-government authorities, which is a result of the Oslo Agreement and for which a government will be responsible. Nor should we be allowed to lead this population into a social, economic and political downturn by not keeping the opportunities for dialogue open. At the same time, we must be very clear about what our demands are, and I believe the representative and I agree.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e352	The President allows two follow-up questions – first Morten Højlund.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e355	The Secretary of State says we have to wait and see what Hamas will do when they join the government. Now it's relatively well known what Hamas stands for. This is why, among other things: The United States and the EU have been so clear. We do not perceive Norway as being equally clear, unfortunately. We encourage the government to be, so hopefully we'll get the wide international pressure that's absolutely necessary. I think it is important which signals the Norwegian Government sends. The government's second largest party is running a Palestine campaign, which is directed exclusively at Israel and what is considered to be Israel's violation of international law. They do not at all take inward terrorist activities on the Palestinian side. Some would think that there is a certain bias in that message not least one of the Government's parties is sending out, and that there may therefore be an overwhelming need for the Government to come high on the ground and send some clear signals to the new Palestinian government.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e362	I'm speaking on behalf of the Government, and I want to make it very clear that we have four points as the basis for what the Middle East parties should deal with. This also applies to the present and future Palestinian Government. It is – in that case of the government – to recognise the right of Israel to exist, a two-state solution in which two countries can live side by side within internationally recognised borders, the use of negotiations, not violence, the acceptance of agreements concluded and UN resolutions and the acceptance of the Roadmap for Peace. It's obvious. I said that in my presentation to the Stortinget in February, and I have repeated it in other forums in Stortinget since. At the same time, it is important that we also maintain a balance in the demands we make to both parties regarding the use of violence. We have seen the use of violence in this region just for the last 24 hours as there is reason to point out as a negative feature in the very demanding situation facing the region in the time that is coming. I want to make it clear that Norway's voice is quite clear here and in the pact with what are international main flows also in the region. But I would also like to point out that we may face a challenge that we have not seen in recent times in the Middle East in terms of the danger of collapse on the Palestinian side, with the social and humanitarian consequences it may have. It also has to take us into account.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e369	Erna Solberg – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e372	The government supports the four requirements they set. I think it is extremely important to maintain close cooperation with the Quartet, i.e. the four countries dealing with this situation. It is worrying to hear that the representatives of the Quartet are thinking of withdrawing from the area because nothing can be done. It is important to stick to the big requirements, but it is also important to ensure a development where those who have voted and who are going to live their everyday lives do not experience things getting worse. And at the moment, the agricultural situation inside the Gaza Strip is much worse. The possibility for Palestinians of employment, income and stability is at risk of being completely undermined because they are not currently being sent their products across borders to Israel to be sold. This will undermine any possibility of better cooperation. What does the Minister for Foreign Affairs, as head of the donor country group, do to obtain free exports of Palestinian agricultural products?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e381	First of all, I would like to say that I share Solberg's approach to this, namely that we are facing a very serious situation here. Special dispatch Wolfensohn has here expressed himself in order to point out that it is not possible to remedy large parts of the Palestinian population's situation without dealing with the PA. We can do a lot through the UN, through non-governmental organisations and other structures, but we are facing a real problem in terms of parts of the Palestinian economy. Norway has protested against Israel for the detention of value creation on the Palestinian side, which the Israelis do not pay back at border crossings. We have supported Wolfensohn's emphasis on the fact that if the small part of a growth-intensive Palestinian economy – especially linked to greenhouse and agricultural products – is not allowed to flow freely into international markets, we will break the little hope that peace can be made meaningful. We're dealing with this bilaterally, and we're dealing with it in multinational relationships with the Quartet within the AHLC. We're also going to keep doing that.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e390	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e393	I'd like to go back to an energy question. I feel that there have been many fine words and wording from the Minister of Energy, but there have been very few concrete measures that will remedy the situation in Central Norway. I will go into the concrete action that everyone in Central Norway, all in the energy industry, all in the business world – and almost all energy authorities – is bringing forward, namely gas power plants. Everyone says that the power situation in Central Norway is so precarious that only gas power plants have sufficient power to meet a cost that you can accept, and that it can be built within an acceptable time horizon to solve the current crisis. Nevertheless, the Government has not done anything to accelerate the construction of gas power plants. The challenge is of course that in that government there is a party that has an aversion to gas power, which it has aversion to most other things. The fact is that there are several gas power projects in the region that can be completed during 2009 and thus remedy any power crisis. But the government has clearly announced that no new gas power concessions will be given without cleaning from day one. It confirmed the Minister of Energy directly at the NRK, Dagsrevyen, just a week ago, when Shell and Statoil presented their project on the Tjeldbergodden. He said that it was not necessary to build a gas power plant without cleaning from day one. The Minister for the Environment has been out saying the same thing about Mongstad. At the same time, one comes with, like a crisis solution from the Government, that one should build temporary gas power plants, which will emit twice as much CO2, use twice as much gas and cost twice as much as a conventional gas power plant. Then it's strange, I think, that a government with an aversion to a normal gas power plant with CO2 emissions will allow the construction of something that would release twice as much of this rudeness. Will the Government now set aside the Soria Moria declaration and rather allow the construction of gas power plants without cleaning from day one?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e414	Firstly, I would like to start by refuting that the government has not done anything in relation to the power situation that we have in Central Norway. There has been close contact with all current developers in this area almost from day one, precisely because we have a demanding situation in the area that makes it necessary to make some decisions. And so, in the five months since this government joined, plans have been made for a new gas power plant, in connection with Hustadmarmor, which was not planned before the government joined, and where I have had close contact with the company. A new plan has now been put forward with regard to gas power plants on the Tent Goods, a very positive plan. We should all be pleased that Statoil and Shell have taken a joint initiative and adjusted their original project in relation to a concession application for a more traditional gas power plant on the Tent Credits. I have also had close contact with Industriekraft Mid-Norway in relation to the situation at Skogn. I have been in contact with the other power producers in this area to see which other plans are available and can remedy this situation. In addition, I have had close contact with Statnett in relation to decisions on investments in line networks. So it's a completely wrong observation that nothing has been done. So it's true that these companies themselves have to make their investment decisions. The government is running a demanding project in relation to CO2 management at Kårstø. We have said that we want to contribute, also in relation to realising the project on Tent Credits, which is a good project, and which will remedy the supply situation in Middle Norway. However, it takes time for that decision to be taken, but we are doing from our side what we can to ensure that the gas power plant on the Tent Goods is in place as quickly as possible, so that we can avoid getting into a difficult situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e430	It is nice to have dialogue with the parties, but all the parties mentioned by Enoxen have also been in contact with the Energy and Environment Committee, and everyone says that they are currently awaiting the Government's further actions: the talks, the dialogues initiated by the Government have not led to any acceleration of investment decisions. That was the point: when a government in the election campaign promised a full toolbox, one has to believe that that toolbox is actually used to speed up investment, when one knows that already in 2008 or 2009, it could be a power crisis. The Minister of Energy's own statement in Dagsrevyen indicated that instead of accelerating a gas power plant on the Tjeldbergodden, the government's policy, requiring CO2 clean-up from day one, will contribute to the project being postponed by at least one year. For Statoil clearly informed that there are no plans for cleaning from day one for this gas power plant on the Tent Bench, and if it is to be realized with cleaning, it will therefore be exposed. It will not be the purification that is being accelerated, because that technology is not ready. The question then again is: What measures does the Government have that will accelerate the construction of gas power plants?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e442	It is no more than two months since Statoil said in an open meeting on the Tjeldbergodden that it was doubtful whether it would take an investment decision on a traditional gas power plant without CO2 management. That gas power plant would not be profitable without paying for a CO2 quota, which the previous government also had as a prerequisite for depositing. It was certainly not certain that an investment decision would be made without the purchase of the CO2 quota, and not with cleaning at all. It's been two months. After that, Statoil and Shell have launched a new, exciting project where not only CO2 handling is needed, but also where they are to be used for injecting on a Norwegian base and increasing oil extraction. It's not the government's profit. But I take it as an expression that, not least the close dialogue we have had with the companies, in relation to the fact that the authorities will also contribute to the realization of this type of project as quickly as possible, has borne fruit.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e462	The President will accept three follow-up questions – first Børge Brende.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e465	I record that the oil and energy minister has not really taken over the clear warning that came from Statnett. They're not just saying that we're facing a potential power crisis, but it's black on white that the power grid can collapse and crack together. There are so strong warnings that you should get hold of this and shop. Then we see that the Central Party's energy policy figurer, Ola Borten Moe, goes out and says yes to the worst power plant. They pollute twice as much as usual gas power plants. Nevertheless, Ola Borten Moe and the Center Party will have mobile gas power plants for a coming power crisis. They pollute twice as much as a conventional gas power plant on the Tent Goods will do. With the crisis you are facing, which it is possible to avoid if you decide today, cannot the Minister of Oil and Energy say that the gas power plant – there are 7 TWh – can be well installed on the Tent Goods, but come with the cleaning later, so that it will not be postponed until 2012? We can do it in 2009, and then you can avoid the power crisis.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e474	Statoil and Shell have signalled that a gas power plant in the form in which they intend to invest – if they make a decision on such an investment, and I really hope that they do, the authorities will help to make that decision – can be in place in 2010, possibly a little earlier. Statoil and Shell have said that a sewage treatment plant can be installed a year later. It's the Government's ambition to contribute to the parallelity of this. Statoil and Shell have given no indication that they will be able to have a gas power plant in place before 2009/2010. We are in dialogue with the companies, and will have close dialogue with them in the ongoing investigation process in 2006. Everyone knows that already in 2008 consumption in the Sunndalsøra and in relation to the Worm Lange will have led to such a strong consumption growth in this area that we can then have a difficult situation. This implies that that situation should have been addressed in the past. We are late, therefore temporary measures may be necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e483	The Christian People's Party is pleased with the government's policy in relation to gas power stations and demands for CO2 cleaning. The challenges that climate brings us require such a policy. For the Christian People's Party, the vision became reality last week, when Statoil and Shell presented their plans in relation to the Tent Goods. It showed that our visions for 2001 have produced results. Much has been clarified, but some open questions remain, among others. this with funding. If Statoil and Shell are to be able to implement their plans, they will use, as they themselves say, considerable financial support from the Government. My question to the Council of State is: Will the Government make enough money, so that the delay does not become a problem? And – what are we talking about?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e497	I wish I could be able to answer the question of magnitude. But Statoil and Shell have a very comprehensive investigation work ahead of them, as they said they'll try to finish during the year we're in. We want dialogue and cooperation with Statoil and Shell to realize this project, and to contribute to that investigation phase as far as we can. In addition, three demanding projects are under way in connection with the Kårstø gas power plant to manage CO2. Part of the work we do there will have transfer value to the Tent Credit, and will also be able to provide a safer decision base compared to a sewage treatment plant there. Statoil and Shell have said that investment decisions will be taken at the earliest in 2007. This means that it will probably be another good few months before we will be able to give an answer to the question that Mr Hemdal is now asking.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e509	Governments are engaged in dialogue as a tool for resolving the current problems. He has now tried dialogue with the Swedish authorities, with poor results. There was a breakdown when it came to the green certificates. The result is that renewable energy projects in central Norway stop, and it has created an even more difficult situation. Tomorrow, the Council of State is going to Trøndelag. He will then be met by local representatives, including from the government parties, who expect him to take on an executive role, because it is necessary to bring together different actors to achieve the result that is needed. Is the Council of State prepared to assume its responsibilities and to assist in the rapid adoption of the necessary decisions? It means before summer, means a local in Middle Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e518	The answer to the question is to the extent yes. But it's not just up to the Council of State, the Government or for that part of the Biggest to make sure that investment decisions are made in this area. It's primarily up to the builders themselves. My job is to facilitate that those decisions can be made as quickly as possible. Yeah, I've been working on dialogue. I see that the dialogue already bears fruit, in the form that you are now closer to an investment decision than you have been before. The developers in this area now dare to launch projects that have not been launched in the past. I do not know what dialogue the previous government had with the builders in this area. But what I can see is that there was very little about getting new production in this area under the previous government. It's sad, because new production is necessary, it's necessary to take seriously the situation we have in Central Norway. That's what this government is doing. Therefore, I spend a lot of time helping us to solve the supply situation we have in Central Norway. That's one of my highest priority tasks for the time being.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e527	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e531	Security of supply in energy is a topic that not only covers the Norwegian metropolitan area, it is a theme that covers almost all countries at the moment. Energy has become a more and more fundamental international issue. It has become one of the issues with which China is striving in its foreign policy. It has become one of the top priorities of the United States. In the State of the Union speech to George Bush, it was becoming self-sufficient, or being provided from more secure sources, with energy some of the most important themes that were addressed. This issue is also on the agenda of the EU. The question of security of supply has become more important and important for both new and old EU countries. In the situation in January, with regard to gas pipelines through Ukraine to parts of Eastern Europe, this issue was even more strongly addressed. Norway is one of the major energy producers entering the European market. Of course, when Europe develops a new strategy to meet its energy security needs, it is important that we, as a country, too, are on the road. So this isn't just a foreign policy issue, it's also a question of how we deal with it in our energy planning. Then I will be allowed to challenge the Minister of Energy to tell what his strategy is in relation to Europe in terms of energy.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e542	I thank you for the opportunity to answer this question, which is a very important question. Norway as a major energy supplier to Europe plays a central role and is an active dialogue partner with many European countries, not least in terms of security of supply. I have therefore had no less than three meetings with Andris Piebalgs, who is the European Commissioner for Energy, in the five months that I have been Minister for Oil and Energy. to discuss the EU Green Paper on Energy. I have had three meetings with the British Minister of Energy, Malcolm Wicks, I have met the German Minister of Energy, I have met the Danish Minister of Energy twice, I have met the Swedish Minister of Energy, I have also met with my Russian colleague to discuss energy policy issues, as Russia is also a great supplier of energy to Europe, and I have had a meeting with the Nordic-Baltic Group in connection with a meeting before the EU Ministerial Meeting. Security of supply has been significantly increased on the agenda. Norway has been a stable supplier of energy to Europe for all years. We will also be in the future. The government is making it possible for us to increase our deliveries, especially of gas, to Europe in the future, and we are also a guarantor of stable and predictable deliveries. In the context of the implementation of Snow White, which will be in production in 2007, we will also be able to enter other markets, for example. the US market, with the opportunities it offers to be a large and secure energy supplier in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e551	I am pleased that the Council of State is concerned that EU issues are also important in this context. I would like to stress that one of the things that is mentioned in the Soria Moria Declaration is an active EU policy – a more active EU policy, sometimes trying to present it as. Just this issue is probably one of the most important issues for us on the road, because the EU is now going to design its entire recipient and consumer policy relating to the receipt of our energy resources. I have therefore noted with amazement that the Council of State did not have much else urgent on Monday, which meant that he could not be present at the preparatory meeting leading up to the EU Ministerial meeting – in the critical situation where the Green Paper was delivered before the weekend and the political process with 25 Member States to participate in designing it, actually starts now. I hope, therefore, that we will have a broad explanation of what has been put forward in relation to the Green Paper on energy policy. And then I hope that in the future you won't experience that the EU ministers are equally disappointed because they don't get to meet a Norwegian government council, which we tend to do when they send the junior ministers in all EEA contexts.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e560	I look forward to presenting the Government's view of the EU Green Paper on Energy for the Storting in a suitable way and would, of course, like to come back to it when it had to be the Storting. My State Secretary was present at the meeting of the Nordic-Baltic Group. I have had close contact with these countries in advance, and in all the meetings I referred to in my main response, the EU Green Paper on Energy has been a topic. In other words, the preparatory work on the EU Green Paper on Energy has been a topic when it has been natural to address this issue, especially in my meetings with Andris Piebalgs, who has been responsible for presenting this Green Paper. I believe that the Norwegian positions have been well respected, through close contact with my colleagues in the EU Member States for these five months. It might be interesting to ask if you have some examples of a similar contact with, for example: EU Energy Commissioner in the course of a five-month period earlier.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e569	President, am I allowed to answer that?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e574	I'm sorry. Erna Solberg is familiar with Storting’s regulations. She'll probably have an opportunity to talk to Mr. Enoxen outside the hall. There will be two follow-up questions – first Ketil Solvik-Olsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e579	The CO2 quota system introduced in Norway and Europe has contributed to a sharp increase in power prices both in Norway and in the EU area. This has greatly exacerbated the competitive situation of both Norwegian and European industry. Especially in Norway, with a very large share of the power-processing industry, this is a nail in the chest for this industry, which is already struggling. What will the Government do to the EU in terms of the CO2 quota system, in order to help ensure that the power price does not get these negative results, so that the world's most environmentally friendly heavy industry can continue to operate in Norway and in Europe?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e592	The representative raises a key question of competitiveness not only for Norwegian industry but also for European industry. The government is now working to ensure Norwegian industry's predictable framework for a competitive situation that allows us to facilitate long-term industrial activity. The issue of competitiveness in European industry is also addressed in the Green Paper presented by the EU Energy Commissioner, precisely because Europe also sees the need to take action to ensure the competitiveness of European industry. This topic has been part of the discussions in the meetings I have had with both Andris Piebalgs and other energy ministers in Europe. The Norwegian Government is concerned about this, and we are therefore in contact with ESA and not least with the EU Member States on this issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e599	For this government, it's a bit of a sport to blame the previous government for everything that's bad and difficult. One of the games we got quite quickly from the new government was that the previous government probably had not used the space to influence the EU sufficiently. The Soria-Moria Declaration states that the Government will more ‘often pursue Norwegian interests vis-à-vis the EU and pursue an active European policy on a broad scale’. And then we see that the oil and energy minister does not find time to meet eight other ministers who are going to attend an important meeting to promote energy issues! I would therefore like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs whether it is such that he has problems with the offensive involvement of his colleagues in taking care of Norwegian interests towards the EU, or whether the last example we have now been informed is only an accident at work.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e610	I can make it very clear that this government is behind an offensive European policy, which includes close contact with important political bodies in Europe, and of course the EU is first among them. There's no problem at all getting an understanding of it. In a short time, we will present an action plan for our contact with the EU. We will call it "EEA Pluss" – a renewal in that area. I have no problem at all with the fact that the Minister of Oil and Energy, who has spent a great deal of time in contact with the EU, had on this occasion a national interest which, for obvious reasons, was ahead of being abroad and the Government was well represented by his State Secretary. Furthermore, we have a broad contact network from other government members, the Prime Minister and myself in relation to the EU, so that they have no doubt about what we stand for, and about our will and interest in having close contact with them on these issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e617	We're going to go to the last main question in the oral question procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e621	My question goes to the Minister of Oil and Energy. The Minister of Oil and Energy has described himself as the ‘neighbouriest’ of oil activity in the north. It has created enthusiasm in the industry. However, those working on renewable energy sources are disappointed and surprised by the Council of State. Among other things, it is related to: together with the fact that he does not have the power to set up a scheme of green certificates with Sweden – a scheme the Centre Party has been a hot supporter of, because it can generate new, clean energy, and because it can trigger projects across the country. It is obvious that internal disagreement in the Government has rendered that act paralysed to the Swedishs. There was disagreement about small power being included in the certification system, and there was disagreement about the level of ambition that you would have. Sweden would go further than Norway, and this led to a breakup. Norway never wanted a single market. Compared to Sweden, Norway is an environmentalist, pronounced social democrat – and Sweden’s energy minister – Mona Sahlin to Dagbladet. Representatives of the Swedish Ministry of Energy say that there were never real negotiations between Norway and Sweden on the green certification market. Is this right? If this is wrong, how far was Norway willing to go? What was the level of ambition for clean energy? And what energy sources would Norway include? It is absolutely essential to get an accurate answer to this in order to get a picture of what led to a break, and not least to be able to compare the positions you had when it was broken, with the alternative arrangement that the Government is now going to present. My claim is that what the Storting has asked for, namely a single market, is the most effective both in terms of costs and the release of green energy.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e632	I agree with the representative that a single market would have been a good instrument for achieving renewable production where it was cheapest in these two countries, if it had been possible to achieve a balanced and good approach. Let me first refute that I am in some way a «negligible» fan of oil activity in the north. I think I have the same balanced view of activity in this area as the representative Kvassheim, and I intend to take care of this in a balanced and sound manner. Let me also refute that there was an internal disagreement in the government that caused Sweden to break up. It wasn't. There was agreement in the Government on these negotiations, and there was a strong willingness throughout the College to arrive at a result. It is not that Sweden would go beyond Norway. If we take into account the number of inhabitants in these two countries, the size of these two countries, Norway was willing to go beyond Sweden in these negotiations. It is also not true that Mona Sahlin has characterised Norway as an environmental sink. Mona Sahlin contacted me after the essay in the newspaper and rejected what was said there. No one is responsible for our failure to reach a result, it was Mona Sahlin – according to the contact she made with me after the newspaper article – that she had said to Dagbladet. The positions we have had in these negotiations are part of the internal negotiations we have had. What is established is that Sweden wanted Norway to assume an equivalent commitment to Sweden. They were not willing to celebrate that requirement. This means that Norway would assume a commitment of 12 TWh in the period up to 2016. This would involve a significantly higher cost for Norwegian consumers than it would for Swedish consumers. The government does not think it would be a good solution in a single market, which should aim to achieve the most renewable production possible, and where this should be balanced between these two countries. I do not know whether the representative Kvassheim would think it would be okay for Norwegian consumers in such a single market to assume a greater obligation than Swedish consumers. It doesn't seem to be the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e645	With a higher level of ambition on the part of the Norwegian authorities, a much more favourable approach would be given to consumers, and I record that the Council of State does not answer my question about what were the Norwegian positions when Sweden was broken. It could be of great importance to figure out how far you were willing to go. Then I find on the back of today's questioning that it probably has to be in the Soria Moria statement that when one does not get off the spot, when one does not get anything done, a debt will be owed to previous governments. When it doesn’t seem credible either, a debt may be owed to governments in other countries. What would be interesting is whether the government now wants a Norwegian certificate market as an alternative to a Norwegian-Swedish. Everyone seems to have agreed in the past that there will be too narrow and too little effective comparison with a single market. Now I said that the leader of the Centre Party is the ‘negligence’ of such an arrangement, and it might be interesting to hear if the Minister of Oil and Energy is too.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e652	I record that the representative has a certain sense of using the term ‘neighbourly’. The government is taking seriously the many inputs that come from an alternative scheme for renewable energy investment. As the Prime Minister has also stated in many contexts, we are engaged in dialogue, we are committed to cooperation and to making serious representations. It comes from many environments that when we did not reach the goal of a Norwegian-Swedish market, we should look at a Norwegian market. We should consider other schemes as minimum prices, as input tariffs, etc. We're taking this seriously, and it's a work that was already going on in the department before these recordings came, and we're looking at. Those solutions may not be the best, but the government will in fact in a very short time – and then we'll talk about weeks – present a scheme that I hope will get broad support in this room, because it is necessary to actively focus on renewable energy.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e659	The President will accept two follow-up questions – first Ketil Solvik-Olsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e662	The Minister of Energy promises a good arrangement as an alternative to green certificates, but he also promised green certificates in his time, so my optimism is not very great. Dialogue is good, but action is better. So far we've seen a little bit of the last. When the Prime Minister was in Stortinget the other day, he said that a green certification scheme with Sweden would give a power price of 25 øre and a certificate price of 15 øre, and that would give a power price of 40 øre. That's deterrent. If that means that the power price goes up by 15 cents, then the government has been very bad at negotiating with the Swedes. But if it's the licence price that's 15 cents, it would mean that it would give the power customer a 1.5 cent premium, which all of the batches so far have said is an acceptable price of certificate, because one assumes that the power price will be much more reduced. Then the question is: if 1.5 cents is too much in support schemes in a green certificate market, how high is the government willing to go, and what do they think they get if, for example, they do. It's going to be one ear per. kWh?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e671	Firstly, it may not be that the Minister of Energy has promised green certificates. We've said in the Soria Moria statement that we're going to work to create such a certification market. We've been working to create a single Norwegian-Swedish market. It didn't work out. It was not possible for the signatory to promise a certificate market for as long as it was based on a result of negotiations between two countries. The last time the Prime Minister was in the Questionnaire, he used an example of this with 25 cents in power prices and an electric certificate price of 15 cents. He also said that after this example, a renewable energy producer that is entitled to receive an electric certificate will get 40 cents per cent. kWh. That was a perfectly correct description. That's what the Prime Minister said last time he was in the Question Time. So it's not like a certificate price in the order of magnitude that we're talking about here, more likely 20 cents than 15 cents, will give you a power charge of 1.5 cents. It depends on the level of ambition you put on.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e680	Ivar Kristiansen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e683	I think the state council here clearly expresses that he has an explanation problem. Not least the many numbers that the state council is now letting hang in the air, it will be quite interesting for the Stortinget to come back to. In fact, regardless of all these explanations — or at any rate away from explanations — the Swedes have been able to obtain a green certificate market. Norway has not managed to achieve this, despite all the beautiful ambitions that the red-green parties had before the election. Earlier today, the council said that it is not the state council that initiates production, it is the builders who do. So here we have an example where there are hundreds of potential producers ready to start investing at maybe $10 billion, and with the possibility of producing up to 20 TWh. How can the Council of State faithfully indicate an alternative to all this private capital that is ready?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e694	Private capital will be absolutely necessary. However, regardless of private capital, both a green certification market and other schemes, such as: a Norwegian certification market, minimum price schemes, which are available in Denmark and Germany, or increased aid through Enova, also means of financing in addition to private capital. A common certificate market with Sweden is not free of charge. This implies that consumers have to pay an additional price to obtain investments that are initially non-commercial. This would mean any aid scheme to stimulate renewable energy in the same way, whether financed from the State budget or financed through increased consumer prices. It's in the certification market. It will also be in the arrangements that the Government will present in a very short time. It therefore provides support for the deployment of renewable energy. Whether that aid comes through a certificate market, or other means, should be reasonably uninteresting. The interesting thing here is that we can get the most renewable production for the least possible of taxpayers' money.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e699	The time for the oral question procedure is now over, and we're going to the ordinary question procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e706	There will be some changes to the list of questions set out, and the President will refer in this context to the overview distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 1, from the representative of Gunnar Kvassheim to the Prime Minister, will be answered by the Minister for Oil and Energy. Question 8, from the representative of Øyvind Korsberg to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade, will be answered by the Minister for Transport on behalf of the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade, who has left. Question 20, from the representative Robert Eriksson to the Minister for Labour and Inclusion, has been transferred to the Minister for Renewal and Administration, who is directly responsible. At the request of the Minister for Renewal and Administration, this question is moved and answered before question 29. Question 21, from the representative May-Helen Molvær Grimstad to the Minister for Labour and Inclusion, has been transferred to the Minister for Children and Gender Equality who is directing him.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e725	This question, from the representative of Gunnar Kvassheim to the Prime Minister, will be answered by the Minister of Oil and Energy.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e728	‘Statoil and Shell have ambitions to build a gas power plant with CO2 handling on the Tent Goods. In order to clean the CO2 emissions and create a value chain based on them, substantial input from the state is needed. How will the Government contribute to the realisation of this important environmental and energy project, and when will the Stortinge be briefed on the Government's handling of this matter?»
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e741	As can be seen from the Soria Moria Declaration, and in so far as oral Question Time also indicates, the Government's objective is that Norway should be world leader in the environmentally friendly use of gas. The Government will cooperate with gas power builders on CO2 capture installations and contribute financially to their implementation as soon as possible. It is essential that the pursuit of ambitions is carried out within a sound economic and legal framework. Three sub-projects launched just before Christmas shall contribute to a solid decision-making basis for the further work of the Government. Sub-project 1 is initial negotiations between the commercial operators in a CO2 chain. Gassco, on behalf of the Government, has launched initial negotiations between the commercial operators. Through this work, we will ensure quality of income and costs at all stages of a value chain. This implies an overview of the country-wide actors involved as CO2 providers. Contact with relevant actors shall identify the volume of CO2 available and the assumptions and costs involved. Petoro, the custodian and rightholder of the State's direct ownership of the socket, and Gassnova, which are responsible for the authorities' commitment to the development of gas power plant CO2 clean-up technologies and with a broad competence in the capture of CO2, will assist Gassco in the work. In sub-project 2, the objective is to clarify the time perspective and costs of setting up a sewage treatment plant on Kårstø. When clarification has been provided as to what clean technology suppliers may offer in terms of costs and time of delivery, a legal entity shall be established which may be responsible for the construction, operation and ownership of the plant. The Ministry of Oil and Energy has asked Norway’s watercourse and energy Directorates to implement and coordinate part of the preparatory work relating to the establishment of a sewage treatment plant on Kårstø by 2009. The mission is to put in place the necessary technology specifications, costs and propulsion plan for a sewage treatment plant adapted to the Kårstø site. In Sub-Project 3, the Ministry of Oil and Energy is working to clarify the various aspects of the organisation and legal framework of the country's involvement in the value chain. Design of a government involvement that is robust in relation to, inter alia: The EEA State Aid Code is central to this work. Then to Statoil and Shell's industrial initiative on the Tent Goods. This project is in a very early phase. In 2006 and 2007, companies will review the commercial and technological aspects of the project in order to clarify the profitability assumptions and, according to the companies, an investment decision will be taken at the earliest in 2008. The various elements of the project will be phased into the period 2010 to 2012. It is necessary to see Statoil and Shell's industrial project in conjunction with the work undertaken by the Government in order to obtain a solid decision-making basis for further work on establishing CO2 value chains. In particular, this concerns the design of the Kårstø sewage treatment plant and the initial commercial negotiations for which Gassco is responsible. As the responsible minister, I am committed to the follow-up of the Soria Moria Declaration by the Government within a sound legal and economic framework. There are currently insufficient grounds for a decision on the size of the country’s participation in Kårstø or in Teldbergodden, but in view of the current work, we will have a better decision-making basis during 2006. I have to come back to this when there is a better basis from Gassco and Norway's watercourse and energy directorate, and when Statoil and Shell have matured their project. It is therefore too early to say how the Government can make an appropriate contribution to the realisation of Statoil and Shell's joint industrial project. The starting point for the evaluation must be to support projects that are socio-economically profitable but not economically viable.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e779	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It's about the gas power plant that's being built on Kårstø. That's why I have a follow-up question attached to it. Does the Council of State realistically decide on State participation in the Kårstø sewage treatment plant during 2006? This is necessary if we are to achieve goals in 2009. That's the one. The second is about the Tent Goods. Here Tore Nordtun, an energy policy spokesman for the Workers' Party, has said that the state must immediately take the initiative that the parties sit down and find out about this, while Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg has said that he keeps the opportunity open and hopes that it will not be necessary for the state to participate at all in the Tent Devotion, an expectation that neither Shell nor Statoil have. Which of these directions is the Council of State following, the one that Tore Nordtun says, that one sits down immediately, or the expectation that here the state doesn't have to contribute at all?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e791	As regards the question of progress on Kårstø, the answer is that we aim to have a sufficient basis for decision-making during 2006. It is also the intention of the three sub-projects currently under way. When I spent so much time on them, it's because they also have a certain transfer value for the Tent Goods. So the question that's related to the Tent Goods. We're already in dialogue with the companies. We will have close dialogue with them in the future to help make decisions as quickly as possible. But there is no contradiction between working quickly – or immediately getting down with the companies, as the representative said – and what the Prime Minister says, hoping that no state support will be needed. I actually thought it was a hope that the Left would share, that you shouldn't have to spend state funds on any project of this kind that comes up. We'll discover that during the process we're in now, and if this project could be commercially on its own without state support, it would be an advantage for all of us.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e798	In the case of Kårstø, it is not only necessary to target a decision during the current year, it is absolutely essential that a decision be taken, otherwise the gas power plant will not become clear with sewage treatment plants in 2009. With regard to state support for the Tent Goods, I am also among those who believe that it is most advantageous to get it the lowest possible, but I take from that representatives from Shell and Statoil have said that a significant contribution is needed. I also point out that the first Vice President of the LO, who is often used to listening in the Government, says that now one must give clear political and financial signals about what support this and other gas power plants will receive from the Government. So it's not just the Left who has a expectation that the Government will come with a clarification. I record the signals coming here, and I can promise that this will be followed further, because the realization of these gas power stations is important in order to have a forward-looking environmental and energy policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e805	I fully share the view that it is necessary to realise these projects that this government has initiated. The previous government had no ambition to put in place a completely necessary and forward-looking clean-up of CO2, on the contrary, it gave no less than four concessions to what the previous Prime Minister, Kjell Magne Bondevik, called highly polluting gas power plants. Yes, we aim to make decisions quickly. We have a demanding progress plan, and we are in close dialogue with Statoil and Shell about their project. So Statoil and Shell have said that investment decisions are made in 2007. 2006 and 2007 will be used to make the necessary preliminary work and investigations to be carried out before an investment decision is taken. During this period, the need for State involvement will be clarified. Before that it will not be possible for me to give an answer as to the amount of any State contribution.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e819	I have a question for the Minister of Finance: ‘The Tax Directorate has recently issued a preliminary opinion on welfare measures/travels paid by employers, which states that workers and jobs in districts are taxed differently from those in more central areas. What will the Council of State do to ensure that the tax exemption for such important work environment measures can apply to all enterprises and jobs throughout the country?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e828	It is true that some trips or hotel stays paid by the employer are considered welfare measures and therefore not taxable. There are good reasons why employers should be able to offer such benefits to their employees, and this may be a good investment in well-being and working conditions. However, the exemption scheme for these types of benefits is an exception and therefore requires some limitations. Reasonable welfare measures are tax-free, while paid holidays are taxed. So it's going to be to figure out how to define one and the other. Initially, all benefits of private economic value from the employer to the employee are taxable persons as employee income, regardless of whether they are in the form of pure money or other. Different composition of remuneration, cash pay plus a larger or smaller element of benefits in kind, should not affect the tax treatment of the value of the total benefits received by the employee from the employer. This is important in order not to create opportunities for tax adjustment in the selection of different forms of remuneration. Furthermore, consistent taxation through the widest possible tax base has good distributive effects. However, certain exceptions to this principle are accepted, including tax exemptions for benefits in kind, which may be regarded as reasonable welfare measures for all or a significant proportion of employees in the enterprise. This requires a common understanding of what is considered a reasonable welfare measure in the form of paid travel and accommodation for employees and what is considered a holiday paid by the employer. The time, duration, frequency and cost are included in this assessment. Holiday stays at a hotel once or twice a year may be accepted as a tax-free welfare measure provided that the stays are within the ordinary leisure time normally provided by employees on the weekend. If the employer pays for a free hotel stay during other normal working periods and at the same time grants leave, the payment is considered to be a taxable holiday cover. The fact that the payment relates to a joint stay for all or most of the employees and that the stay does not exceed the duration of a duty-free weekend does not prevent classification as holiday coverage. The level of costs must also be kept within reasonable limits in order for the employer’s coverage to be considered as duty-free. It is not possible to build a regulatory framework around this scheme that takes into account the different needs of different workplaces. The economy of enterprises will vary, the travel distance to the place of recreation will be different from place to place, the same applies to the preferences of the individual workplace. We have to make sure that the rules allow everyone to stay within a moderate cost standard and choose welfare measures that give the most value for money. I record that the Tax Directorate considers travel time to be an integral part of the trip and hotel accommodation in its binding prior opinion, and that the use of e.g. Therefore, on Friday before the end of working hours to travel to the hotel, the trip is regarded as a holiday journey instead of a weekend trip and is therefore taxable. The reason is that free in part of the working time to complete the trip makes the holiday impression more prominent than otherwise. It can be discussed here where the boundary should go, but one place it has to go, as the legislation has been built up. In a thought experiment, we can move the boundary, for example. so that up to three hours of other normal working time could be used for travel time without the trip being considered as a holiday trip, but then we would only get into new limitations problems. I therefore do not see it as appropriate to intervene with the directorate's choice of borderline at this point. Nor do I see it as appropriate to remove the need for such a borderline by accepting that holidays in other ordinary working hours can also be classified as tax-free welfare measures. It should be maintained that this tax exemption does not cover holiday trips, even if they are carried out collectively for the company’s staff. But it won't be the way the questioner puts it, namely that businesses in the districts should get a little worse off than businesses in, for example. Oslo. This depends entirely on where you intend to travel. If a company in the districts that uses travel time to reach the Danish boat prioritizes the Danish boat, you are in vacation trips if you need to take part in working time. If an enterprise in Oslo travels northwards and uses part of the working time to get there, it will also be a holiday trip.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e847	I thank you for your answer. I agree with the Minister of Finance that it is not a human right for everyone in the country to be able to come with the Danish boat. I guess it's also questionable how interested many are. But what's really important here is really what the Great Britain and the legislator have said about these provisions. It is my opinion that the exemption provisions have been greatly extended in relation to the original opinion of the Storting, for ten years ago it was said that the benefit of such measures should be consistently exempted from taxing as long as reasonable account was taken of what was common in the labour market. My first question is that the Tax Directorate has issued this preliminary opinion. Sometimes the Tax Directorate goes to the Ministry of Finance, I assume, to check this out. Has the Ministry of Finance looked at this, or is it just done by the Tax Directorate?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e856	Very familiarly, the Tax Directorate has dealt with this issue at its discretion. And I want to keep to the bottom of my answer: I don't need to go into any discussion with the Tax Directorate about what's reasonable and unreasonable when you set limits on what's considered holiday travel, and what's considered welfare measures. We would face exactly the same limitations challenges, whether you took two hours of working time, three hours of working time or five hours of working time, and said it was okay, and so it was within a welfare measure. In any case, both the Fleet and I would have had a problem in relation to the delimitation of this. I think it is reasonable that an enterprise that takes care of its employees, as a welfare measure, can invite the employees two weekends a year, but within what is considered a leisure time. I think the Tax Directorate has found a reasonable balance.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e863	Then I'll see it from a slightly different angle right over here. The finance minister and her party want shorter working hours, including 6 hours of work, and on the way there, I think we want to see flexible arrangements. This is a central point of the Tax Directorate’s opinion here — it’s about travelling during working hours. I think we'll see changes in this along the way to any 6-hour day, which I have to say in parentheses, I hope we don't get. Can the Minister of Finance imagine that this will be assessed in a different way when these situations arise — not in order to bring the Danish boat to life, but in order to make it similar to most companies and most employees?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e870	I am very pleased that the representative fleet looks so optimistic about the future and about the possibility of working time reductions. Of course, he has a point that working time and what we consider to be normal working hours can vary between companies, and that will be a challenge in terms of the practice of this legislation. But for the time being, I don't think we're going to advance the introduction of 6 hours of work on a few Fridays to make sure that this law becomes more liberal. We'll have to do it another time.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e877	The last answer was happy. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e886	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Finance: ‘By establishing a holding company, the tax on share gains is deferred until the money is withdrawn from the company, i.e. an interest-free tax credit. According to the Government's response, this is not a real saving, because the tax must in any case be paid at a later date. The tax credit of a holding company can be compared to the tax credit obtained by increasing depreciation rates, for example: machinery. Should the Council not then support the requirement to increase depreciation rates by, for example: machines?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e895	As I have explained in response to written question No. 486, from the Hageseter depositor, there is no interest-free tax credit by postponing the dividend tax, for example. through the establishment of a holding company. I have carefully explained this in writing, and I think it is also best done in writing, because these are complicated questions. Investments made through a company do not provide a new protection basis, as opposed to investments made by a person. The cost of financing investments with retained profits in the company thus corresponds to the protection rate, i.e. the value of the shielding basis not provided. This is an intentional feature of the screening method which contributes to non-discrimination, inter alia. between those who are able to defer the additional tax as a result of the screening method and those who do not have such an option, e.g. individual enterprises. The justification for the depreciation rates chosen, inter alia: on machinery, which the representative connects to his first claim, they must, as far as possible, reflect actual economic impairment. That's why, of course, we have different depreciation rates on different investment objects. Thus, one will also avoid triggering tax credits related to depreciation. Higher depreciation rates than the real impairment would imply an interest-free tax credit on the investments in question. There is no reason to believe that an excessive depreciation rate will contribute to a better productivity development in the Norwegian economy. Moreover, there is no economic situation that suggests that a priority should now be given to stimulating higher investment enterprises, such as small and medium-sized enterprises. SV meant earlier. Now, the situation is very good in large parts of Norwegian business, and no matter what you think about depreciation rates, this is not the time to introduce any exceptional measures now. The government believes that it is more important for business to invest in other areas. We know, for example. that many enterprises lack skilled labour. So focusing on knowledge and education in this situation is a very good business policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e906	No matter how the Minister of Finance distorts and distorts it, depreciation rates are a framework condition, and Norwegian companies have worse conditions than most of our neighbouring countries. We have 20 pst in Norway. Depreciation on machines, in Sweden it is 30 pst. This means that Norway has worse framework conditions than, for example, Swedish holdings. But my question was basically not whether it corresponds to the real lifetime of machines. My question is, how can the Minister of Finance argue and defend that deferred tax in the holding company is not profitable, nor is it a cost for the state, while increasing depreciation rates, thereby exposing taxes to companies on machines, are a particular great advantage and a very large cost to the state? How can it be that deferred tax is an advantage in one case and not in another?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e913	I have tried, both in writing and in an experimental manner, to state very clearly that I disagree with the description and comparison of these two aspects by the representative Hagesett. I would like to send a written reply about it. The discussion I understand is a trick to try to get the arguments for more favourable depreciation rates. I have such respect for the wishes of Hagesetter. However, if you start to compare Norwegian tax levels and Norwegian tax systems with Swedish tax levels or other, you have to include all the elements. There is nothing to suggest that Swedish entrepreneurs have a significantly better tax regime if you see it together, than Norwegian entrepreneurs. As of today – and we will all enjoy it – the Norwegian business environment is very favourable. This means that an exceptional measure in the form of lower depreciation rates should not be justified on the basis of what the situation is like either.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e922	I note that the Minister of Finance does not want to answer the question. It's true that there are good conditions in business now. Some people think there may be pressure in the economy, but at least there is no shortage of machines that will make up a pressure in the economy. Machines are also produced abroad, so that if we stimulate more profitable investment in machines, that's not what's bent. But my question is still: how does the Minister of Finance think it can be that deferred tax is not profitable in the case of holding company, and therefore there is no cost for the state, while taxing machines by increasing depreciation rates is expensive for the state? It is very profitable for businesses, but the Minister of Finance thinks that there will be negative consequences in that there will be additional pressures in the economy. It must be because it will then be purchased additional machines that have been produced abroad.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e931	The reason why Hagesetter and I don't agree on this is because we disagree on the starting point. We believe that there is no tax credit related to holding companies, as Hagesetter claims, and we believe that the production he provides of how this protection method works is a misconception. That is why we do not meet in this debate. So just a couple of strings about depreciation rates. They're actually such that they all, most companies will have good enough profitability to invest in the machines they need. They do not need any additional incentive to replace their engine fleet with favourable depreciation rules. But many alerts that they have bigger problems than before getting skilled labour. So if the authorities are now going to set up in a prioritized order, it's going to be using the more billion proceeds that would involve changing the depreciation rates from 20 pst. until 25 p.m., on education instead.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e942	«In the Municipal Report 1 March, State Secretary Inge Bartnes is quoted from a meeting in Ålesund. He says that 'we can't sit in Oslo and draw maps over the heads of local politicians. The principle of volunteering shall form the basis for determining the geographical breakdown of the regions’.» Does the Council of State stand by this principle, and how will the Council of State go about further work so that no regional borders are set against the will of local politicians?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e949	The government believes that there should be three elected levels in Norway. We have embarked on a major effort to establish a renewed and strengthened level of regional administration. In the autumn of 2006, there will be a roll-out message clarifying the division of tasks and responsibilities between levels. Once the task breakdown between the three levels has been completed, there will be a process to clarify the geographical breakdown. I have stated on several occasions that in the case of regional borders, volunteering is to be taken as a starting point. After clarifying the tasks to be added to the regional level, I think the regional actors' seas can find good and forward-looking solutions, without having to use coercion. However, if it turns out that there will be some difficulty in finding an agreement on the division, I have faith that, in interaction with the parties involved, we can find ways to solve this. The result is best if decisions are as consistent as possible with local requirements. Having said that, the representative, Höie, must be absolutely sure that the government's ability to cut through if necessary. The final decision on county limits has been taken by the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg under the zoning law.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e958	In this case, the end of the Council of State confirms that perhaps both the Secretary of State and the Council of State have placed greater emphasis on volunteering in posts in more local assemblies than she is now doing in the answer. I record that the Council of State is using the concept of regional actors, and then my follow-up question is: who is it that should voluntarily agree on the borders? Are local politicians in the municipalities concerned, or are the state politicians on their way out to agree on the new level of administration and regional borders?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e965	The government takes voluntary action as its starting point. When we're going to agree on the future boundaries and we're saying that we're going to have dialogue with regional actors, it means to us, of course, the municipal level, the primary municipal level and the county level. We're now spending a lot of energy on dialogue and consultation also on division of tasks, because that's what we're doing right now. We haven't reached the geographic boundaries yet. What has become very clear through the process we have had is that the primary municipality has been far too little involved in the discussions about what the future level of the region should look like. The process that we have had about the problems illustrates to me just how important it is to have a broad process, and that both municipalities and county municipalities are involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e975	Does this answer mean that, in a given situation, the Government can propose to force municipalities to belong to regions which they themselves do not want to belong to? And does this also mean that the Government will come up with a standard for what size a region would need? I record that the Council of State says that she is a big fan of the Danish model, and the Danish model involves both a description of tasks and not least a description of an ideal state. I want to ask for a clear answer to those two questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e982	It is fascinating that the Right now shows such great interest in regional reform. I think it's very good, because the right has been in government for four years and let this question float completely. Now we've added up to a process. We're going to have the new regional level in place on 1 January 2010, and we've added up to a process that means we're going to do the problems first, and then we're going to take the geography. Now we're there to discuss the problems. That's what we're going to focus on right now. Once the problems are clear, we're going to go in and look at the regions and what they're going to look like. Our starting point is that through dialogue, we should come to an understanding with the different parties to this. If that is not possible and it will prevent the implementation of a reform that the Government believes is important and should be put in place, we will certainly cut through. To the seventh and last, what I've said is the Storting that decides.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e993	I have a question for the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs: ‘In order to avoid discrimination between municipalities that sold electricity shares before the change in the municipal law of 1.1.2001, Stortinget has decided that a system should be established to allow the income of the sections to be recovered from operating activities, as those municipalities did not have the opportunity to adapt to the changes in the accounting regulations adopted by the Ministry of Finance on 22.9.2004. This does not apply to municipalities that have sold after the scheme, but to those that sold before the change like Giske and Balestrand. How far have the Councils come to work?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e1002	In the context of the treatment of the municipality's 2006 proposal on 16 June 2005, the Stortinget decided that the government should seek out a scheme to allow municipalities that sold electricity shares before the change in the municipal law on 1 January 2001 to earn so-called save returns in operation. The current Bondevik II Government gave feedback to the Stortinget on this question in the State budgetproposal for the financial year 2006. In the light of good municipal property management, the Bondevik government concluded that there is no basis for making changes to the income management rules for savings. The Stoltenberg government did not change this in its additional proposal. The store did not comment on the matter. The Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs is currently dealing with the same issue in the light of a letter of 29 November 2005 from the municipality of Giske. The Ministry will respond within a reasonable time to the enquiries of the municipalities of Gieske.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e1011	On the basis of the decision that was taken at the time, and on the basis of the fact that it was the head of the previous municipal committee, central party politician Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa, who was in the limelight for this decision to be taken, can the Council of State then understand that there are expectations in these municipalities that one more look at this issue?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e1016	In the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs we deal with all the enquiries we receive, with the greatest seriousness. We do so in this matter too. My starting point is that the municipal sector has a separate body for good municipal accounting. It consists, as I am absolutely sure the representative of Tørresdal knows, of members of the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs, the Ministry of Church and Culture, the KS, the Association of Norwegian Municipalities and the Association of Municipal Finance and Taxation. This is a body where the municipalities have the majority. For me, it is important to consider that the recommendations of this body should be followed. That is what has been done in this matter. I now have the questions from the municipality of Gieske on my table and will deal with them. But I think I'd like to say that there are good reasons to try out what kind of body you actually have to handle good municipal accounting practices.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e1025	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I would once again encourage you to look at this, which is perceived as unreasonable for the individual municipality affected by this change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e1032	I have answered that question. The issue is related to the sale by the municipality of Gieske of power shares in 1999 and 2000. Under the rules in force at that time, sales revenue was allocated to capital funds, which are reserved for capital purposes. The municipality now wants to reclassify these funds so that they can be used for operational purposes. You can say, in a sense, that the municipality wants to rewrite the story in the sense that one says that at the time someone did an action, what they would do, one would have done things differently. I respect that the municipality thinks this way about these questions. I will go into the matter with sufficient thoroughness and come back to the answer if not very long.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e1045	«According to the Nations on 3 March, voluntary community merger is assessed by 33 municipalities. The merger projects are relevant because municipalities see advantages for both the inhabitants, the municipalities themselves and the large community. How will the Government contribute to the implementation of voluntary community mergers?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e1052	Norway will have a finely masked municipal structure in the future, simply because there is no desire for a massive municipal merger locally, and because the government does not want to use coercion. I have no objection to community mergers as long as the decisions are taken locally, based on local initiatives and local assessments. On the other hand, I see no need to lure the municipalities into joining forces through extraordinary incentives, as the previous government did. I have therefore chosen to remove the grant for infrastructure measures for municipalities that want to join together for the future. Nevertheless, I see the need, like most others, to support local processes where the municipalities want to assess aggregation more closely. As a result, the Ministry supports investigations into the consequences of any municipal mergers. Local authorities also receive support for information and public hearings, in order to ensure that decisions taken are well anchored in the population. If the municipalities choose to join, they will have access to legal instruments under the law of division. In other words, they will receive a breakdown grant, partial compensation for one-off costs of the merger process and an exemption from individual State charges. Municipalities that have been promised support for infrastructure measures under the previous government will receive this. As can be seen from the above, I am not a member of such instruments, but the municipalities should know that they have predictability. The municipal structure we have today is adapted to local preferences based on marine assessments of our own needs and wishes. This should also be the case in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e1061	I hear what the council says, but I'm a little surprised, because in the Municipal Report some politicians have stood up. It is believed that there is little willingness to cooperate. The Rogaland municipalities of Bokn and Tysvær will join forces, but struggle with dialogue with the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs. They feel that the doors are closed. Yesterday, a meeting was held in Bodø to discuss large municipalities. It was nine local government officials who met. The department refused to join. At Sunnmøre, 18 rapporteurs decided to investigate further cooperation, but there the department withdrew from the steering group. I am then a little surprised at how this is in relation to the answer just given by the Council of State. Could it be that the Council of State deliberately opposes community mergers, even if it is desirable locally?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e1068	I suppose I must be allowed to say that there are other truth witnesses in this world than the Municipal Report, I would assume. The thing is, we don't change the possibilities that municipalities have to merge, in addition to taking away future support for infrastructure measures. The former regime went around the country and the beach and said that it would be possible to get there, where you would get broadband, where you would get a bridge, provided that the municipalities joined together. I think that's unwise municipal policy. I think that is unwise transport policy. No other instruments have been removed, and there are incentives for municipalities that want it to merge. There is an infinity of meetings around the country in the municipal sector. If the political leadership in the department were to be present at all those meetings everywhere, we would be in a hurry.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e1077	The Council of State was now aware that there are some subsidies in there. I assume that it is still within the income system that municipalities that merge do not lose their subsidies for the first ten years, but get a certain period of time to change, until the new revenues are organized. Now we know that the income system is under assessment and will be amended by the Storting on a proposal from the Government. Can the Council of State confirm that this subsidy scheme for those municipalities that wish to merge will remain in the new income system and will not be seen as one of the carrots of a bundle that the Council of State throws away?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e1084	We're going to get back to the income system in connection with the municipal bill for 2007. That's where we're going to sign up for the Borge Committee. I do not now have the opportunity to say anything about how it should be done. But I'm asking the representative to listen to what I'm saying, that the only change I've made in relation to municipal mergers is that we don't fly land and beach around with promises of infrastructure measures to be given to municipalities, provided they join forces. I want municipalities in Norway to have both a bridge, road and broadband, but they should get it for reasons other than because they get together. There are no plans in my policy that we should make it difficult to merge municipalities, except that this infrastructure grant will not exist in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e1095	I have a question for the Minister of Oil and Energy: ‘It is generally agreed that Mid Norway will have a very critical force situation from 2008/2009. The power deficit will be approx. 9 TWh in the region, and max import potential is approx. 5 TWh. New grid reinforcements can be in place at the earliest around 2012. Statoil and Shell have submitted a plan for a CO2 value chain, in which gas power plants are scheduled to operate from 2010, and probably without CO2 cleaning in the first year. How shall the power deficit be covered in the period from 2008/2009 until the gas power plant is operational?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e1110	The perspectives for the power situation in Central Norway are serious. In particular, this is the case in More and Romesdal. We've had a very rapid growth in consumption in this area, especially related to the expansion of Hydro Aluminium on the Sunndalsøra. From this point of view, Central Norway is today the region in Norway with the greatest challenge in terms of security of supply of electricity. A further significant growth in electricity consumption in the region in the years to come is to be expected, inter alia. related to the Worm Lange extension. Therefore, without considering the specific figures used by the representative, I share his view that the situation in the area is very serious. I am very positive that heavy industrial actors such as Statoil and Shell are now joining forces on a large-scale project for the use of CO2 from gas power plants to increased oil extraction. The project shows that industry is taking the government's policy on CO2 clean-up seriously. The project will be good for the environment. At the same time, we will get bigger values out of the oil and gas fields Draugen and Heidrun, and the fields will have longer life. In the long term, the project may also help to secure the power demand in Middle Norway. However, it is true, as the representative of Solvik-Olsen points out, that this project is planned to be operational only in 2010. The government has a strong focus on the power situation in central Norway, and there is a clear need for action in this area in the future. The work is carried out in close cooperation with both Norway's watercourse and energy directorate, Statnett and the various actors in Central Norway. We are now considering measures in a broad field to ensure a secure supply of energy, even in the period until the planned gas power plant on the Tjeldbergodden is operational. State networks have an important role to play in the work that is now being done. State network analysis of the situation in the area shows that the use of network reinforcements will be high. There will also be significant network savings related to the establishment of new production in the same region. Increased transfer capacity between Norway and Sweden is planned to be in place in 2009 and can address the situation somewhat. State networks are also in the process of preparing other new transmission lines towards the region, but it takes a known time to realise them. It seems clear that it is important to implement measures on both the production and the web site. It may be necessary to take different measures in the region during the period until permanent production is in place. State networks have several instruments that can be used in very demanding power situations in order to avoid a situation where rationalisation is necessary. A number of these instruments were identified as early as 2002–2003. Energy options to industry are such an action. Mobile gas power plants, which have been discussed, are a measure. Information measures in relation to the power market are also another instrument — only to mention some of the instruments that Statenet has assessed and that may need to be assessed during such an interim period. The government has not taken a decision on any of these, but it is Statnett's job to ensure that we have a secure and secure energy supply, even in a difficult supply situation. Statnett does that job in a satisfactory way. We'll have the opportunity to come back to this as it approaches time when we get a bigger gap between production and consumption. The government will facilitate increased power generation by actively investing in new environmentally friendly forms of energy. It also implies exploiting the potential of upgrading existing hydropower plants. We want to stimulate the expansion of small, mini and micro power plants. There is currently a great deal of interest in wind power development in Norway. We have good wind conditions along the coast, and we have large areas where expansion is possible. Enova has identified projects in this area that can be realised within a relatively short period of time, which will also help to remedy part of the supply situation we have in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e1131	It was nice to hear that there are many possibilities. What is regrettable is that there are none of these possible measures you want to accelerate. If I did not misunderstand the Council of State, he even said that he would wait a little, until it approaches the time when the difference between consumption and demand gets a little bigger. The problem is that in order to avoid a crisis, it is usually a little too late to take action at all. But it's usually time if the crisis has arisen and you just want to end it again. State Councils referred to Statnett. Statnet has said several times that they will need equity unless they are going to go out into the market and borrow money, which will cost the projects. Statnett has said that they will not have the power grid repaired until 2012. They have said that this is a poor solution both environmentally and cost-effectively compared to, for example, establishing a gas power plant without CO2 cleaning. Statnett has said that gas power stations are the only ones that can solve the crisis.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e1141	Just to realize permanent production as quickly as possible, we are also in close contact with the actors, the builders, in this area to ensure new production. Statnet has no financial problems. Statnett has investment plans in excess of DKK 10 billion for the next few years. This means that substantial investment in network reinforcements is now planned, and Statnett does not have a financial problem to realise the plans it has. However, the amount of equity is among the things that are of course under assessment, including by the owner, in relation to the investment plans. Of course, I want to speed up new production as quickly as possible and have it phased in as early as possible. However, as far as the situation pointed out by the representative for 2008/2009 is concerned, it may need to be addressed with temporary instruments. It is not possible to put in place a production as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e1150	When the Energy and Environment Committee was in Trøndelag – and so far also when we were in Møre and Romsdal the week before – it was emphasised that the only thing that could provide a sufficient new volume of power at an acceptable cost within the time horizon we are looking at was a gas power plant. It is actually physically possible to build a gas power plant on approx. three years. That means we're starting today, you have a gas power plant up before the summer of 2009. But it will be a gas power plant without CO2 handling. Now the Council of State is talking about using temporary or mobile gas power plants, which have half as good efficiency as a normal gas power plant, and which do not have CO2 cleaning. So that's an acceptable solution. But to allow the Tent Credit to be built without CO2 cleaning from day one, the Council of State has already said it is not current, according to an interview at the NRK Dagsrevyen last Wednesday. Then the question is: Shouldn't you ignore the Soria Moria declaration, where you require CO2 cleaning from day one, and allow it to be built, when the option is a much worse mobile gas power plant?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e1167	The problem is completely wrong. None of the developers have said that they are willing to make investment decisions in the coming months to have a gas plant in place in 2008, when the situation pointed out by the representative in his question arises. Nor are any of the builders who have said that they are willing to make investment decisions today, enabling a gas plant to be installed in 2009. Statoil and Shell have launched a new project on the Tjeldbergodden, where investment decisions are to be made in 2008, according to the plans they have submitted. We're trying to help make that decision as quickly as possible to get production in place as quickly as possible. It won't be any more correct if the representative repeats his claim countless times. We work to get new permanent production in place as quickly as possible. Provisional measures may then be necessary in an intermediate phase. We also consider what measures are sensible to take.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e1176	This question, from the representative of Øyvind Korsberg to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade, will be answered by the Minister for Transport on behalf of the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e1179	‘The competitive situation of Hurtigruten is now very difficult on the domestic market. The reason is that foreign cruise ships have much lower costs in terms of crews from low-cost countries and lower charges. The management of the Hurtigruten Group is now considering flagging out several ships. What will the Council of State do to ensure that Hurtigruten competes on the same lines as foreign cruise ships along the Norwegian coast, in order to ensure Norwegian employment?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e1186	The fast route is one of the main signs of the transport system along the coast of Norway and is considered one of Norway's most attractive and unique travel experiences. Fast-rope ferry companies are granted a right to sail the Bergen–Kirkenes route with intermediate cities for the period 2005–2012. This implies a right and an obligation to sail in that period. No other company has such a right. The budget of the Ministry of Transport for 2006 has made a commitment of 249.5 million. SEK to Hurtigruta for the purchase of transport services from fast-moving warehouses. The sum is allowed to keep daily sailing on the Bergen–Kirkenes route with a stop pattern in accordance with an agreement between the Ministry of Transport and fast-moving. With regard to capacity, the State has required the ship to be large enough to allow distance passengers on the Bergen–Kirkenes route and to have the necessary freight capacity north of Tromsø. The size of today's ships is larger than the requirements of the agreement and is a solution the company itself has chosen on a commercial basis to increase the income from tourism. Tourism income also represents the principal income of the company. In the agreement with the State for the period 1991-2001, there was a significant means of converting Hurtigruta against tourism. As part of this investment, the company has large sums in new ships. The agreement currently in force is similar to the previous three-year contract for the purchase of transport capacity on the Bergen–Kirkenes route. The State purchases passenger services for distance passengers with Hurtigruta in the same way as the State, e.g. purchasing passenger transport services by train. Only State aid for tourism will be commercial aid and must be assessed in accordance with the international agreements on State aid. Foreign cruise ships are allowed to sail in Norway in accordance with the EEA Agreement and the duties of Norway in the WTO and OECD. The same rules give Norwegian ships access to foreign ports and markets. The competitive situation vis-à-vis foreign cruise ships was part of the basis of supply for the agreement between the fast rail companies and the State. It was also part of the supply base and the agreement with fast-moving companies that they should be added on board with Norwegian pay and working conditions. This applies irrespective of the flag of the ship. In accordance with the regulations on the management of Norwegian seafarers' allowances, ships which receive other public concessions cannot be covered by the scheme. This means that the Hurtigruta under the current legislation is not included in the net pay scheme. As far as I can understand, there is therefore no change in competition with foreign cruise ships after the agreement between fast rail carriers was concluded in November 2004. At the same time, I understand that the fleets are experiencing that competition is demanding. I have registered that the fast-moving company now has taken action to improve the competitiveness of a merger of the fast-moving company of Ofotens and Vesteraalens Vampschiffsgesellschaft, OVDS, and Troms Fylkes Vampschiffsgesellschaft, TFDS, to Hurtigruten Group ASA. I believe that the merger could lead to more efficient operations through synergies with respect to both revenues and costs. Hopefully this will strengthen the competitiveness of the merged company and thus ensure efficient transport and unique travel experiences for travellers.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e1209	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I fully agree with the Council of State that this is an enormously great tourist offer. I also notice that the government is now working on the idea of introducing a tourist tax. It's probably a creative way to get rid of foreign tourists in Norway. My question was not really on the fast route agreement, to which the Council of State used most of its answer, but on whether the Government will do anything. The Council of State referred to the current legislation, and I am well aware that it does not allow for any changes to the net pay scheme. However, the same legislation can only be included in the net pay system with a regulatory change, in line with some other vessels in Norway. Will the Council of State take the initiative to amend the national regulations?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e1218	As I said in my reply, the competitive situation vis-à-vis foreign cruise ships is part of the basis of the offer for the agreement between the fast-moving fleets and the state. It is also, as I said, in accordance with the current regulations on the management of the recruitment of Norwegian seafarers that those who receive other public benefits are not covered by the scheme. There is currently no plan to change that scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e1223	I thank the Council of State for the answer. That you don't want to change this at the moment, I can interpret it as coming back, among other things. in revised, and do so. If you say you don't want to change at this point in time, at least you have an opening for it. Then I interpret it positively, because it is in conflict with the signals we have received from the Minister of Industry in the past. But that gives us hope. You have a right and a duty to sail, and you have an obligation to call 33 places along the Norwegian coast. One of the major challenges for the Hurtigruten, which is obliged to call at these sites, is that there are large differences in port charges – from Mehamn, which is the cheapest at $1150, to Geiranger, which is the most expensive at $10,476 to charge. There are places where the Hurtigruten is obliged to call. What will the Council of State do to reduce these port charges, because it does not actually reflect the services provided by these points of call?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e1232	The ownership of the ports is today at municipal level. Developments in ports are often outsourced to municipal and perhaps also to intercommunal companies, but usually municipal companies. This government has a policy where we are concerned about having a good interaction with the local government, but we are also very louder for the decisions that are made locally, and are careful to intervene with them. Of course, the Minister for Fisheries, who is responsible for the ports at the department level, has a continuous dialogue with the municipalities on this issue. Our goal is, of course, to have a port policy that makes Norwegian ports competitive, both for Hurtigruta and for others to come to Norwegian ports – not least international cruise traffic, which is also busy with the same question. But it's a question that the Minister of Fisheries and the municipalities have to look at.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e1243	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘The winter weather in Trøndelag revealed the vulnerability of the public infrastructure. In Sørdalen, Åfjord, along county road 55 in Åfjord, at the northern border of Trundellag, there was a break in road and telephone connections, and the village had a lack of mobile phone coverage from before. One may fear that such events will occur more frequently in the future. Full mobile coverage is therefore becoming increasingly important to ensure preparedness. What will the Council of State do to ensure better mobile coverage and thereby safer preparedness?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e1252	Let me first express my understanding of the problems that the people of Åfjord were faced with in connection with the previously unearthly winter. I can very well understand the frustration that people in Åfjord must feel when they are among the 0.2 pst. in this country that doesn't have mobile coverage where they live. In a situation of emergency, this is perceived as being extra bad. In general, the allocation of frequencies to GSM requires a minimum extension to obtain permission. Unfortunately, the existing expansion conditions are not comprehensive enough to impose any additional expansion on Telenor or NetCom. They've both over-filled the terms. The conditions were set in the autumn of 2005 under the previous government, which went out of the representative Loans Party and others, and liabilities for 12 years. The new conditions did not require any additional mobile coverage at all for any of the companies. Now, however, it seems that the situation should be better for people in Åfjord. Telenor has informed me that they have been in contact with the county emergency department and the spokesperson in Åfjord municipality about GSM coverage in the municipality. I am informed that Telenor aims to establish a base station in Sørdalen before the summer. This station will cover almost all of the busses in Sørdalen. A base station should also be located in Lundfjorden to the autumn. Finally, in the Soria Moria Declaration, the Government says that it should facilitate the deployment of the mobile network in areas where the coverage is too poor today. The Ministry of Transport is now considering the follow-up to this target formulation.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e1263	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I also think that the answer was very good and concrete in relation to the challenge, at least in the case of Sørbygga in Åfjord. I am also pleased that the Council of State shows an understanding of the situation of the population in the flood disaster earlier this winter. Now we see that the mobile coverage is evenly above the lowest in Utkant-Norway and not least along many roads. I know that in my county, South-Trundellag, there are still more county and state roads where there is not good enough or useful mobile coverage. I did not record in the Council's response that it would be taken a step to look at the remaining sections of the states that are involved, to correct it. At least I ask the Council of State to clarify whether there are plans to look at these areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e1270	In what I said in conclusion, it is of course just that, because in the Soria Moria statement, the government has said that getting full mobile coverage is an important goal for us. If we want to achieve that, we have to map out the areas that don't have mobile coverage today, and we do. I'm also getting input from different parts of the country that fall outside the areas that have coverage. Unfortunately, the previous government extended the concession agreement without entering into an assessment — at least there is no visible result of such an assessment — if one could use the concession terms to require additional coverage. What we are doing now in the Government is, of course, to assess whether there are other ways we can cover these areas, and we are of course also cooperating with the telecommunications operators in that area.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e1277	Once again, I thank the Council of State for the answer. Now, the two companies Telenor and NetCom are operators of mobile coverage in Norway. These companies only base their decisions on business economic considerations. The consequence of this is that a part is cut off from the use of mobile phones. The Council of State also mentioned that the previous government has not imposed any liability on the companies in relation to these remaining areas. It may be, but now we see that things can go wrong, that the mobile phone is actually the last thing you can trust when everything else fails. We also know that mobile saves lives in many cases. Could there be an arrangement now that we have seen this, no matter what previous governments have done, where the authorities impose on these companies, for example. to offer cover to each other's customers in those areas where only one company has coverage, that they sell connections to each other's customers? This would also reduce the need for installations in areas where there is a lack. [[President clubs]] Will the State Council initiate such an overall imposition on operators?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e1288	The most important thing for state councils is to secure areas that do not have mobile coverage. That one can get either Telenor or NetCom may happen in some areas. It's not what matters to the Council of States for the first time. The important thing is that it should be possible to get mobile coverage. And then you get to accept that not both companies have coverage everywhere. It's like NetCom has a lower coverage requirement than Telenor has. It's just 0.2 pst. which remains, and of course, those areas in the country where there are least people, spread the population, and where the economy in this is not so good. Ergo also has to consider whether to use economic tools in this image, or whether there are other ways we can interact with the companies to cover the rest. There is a region of state councils busy. Not least revealed the unfamiliarity that we had in Trøndelag, how important it is that we have mobile coverage everywhere.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e1298	We have a snowy winter. Chaos on the roads as a result have given daily headlines in the media. Too often we experience that non-resident car combinations are the cause of chaos after slipping off the road or getting stuck. As soon as there comes snowfall or fog with frost in the air, it happens again. Ripped tyres, summer tyres, no chains combined with inadequate training —
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e1303	The President has to ask that in the first place only the question is quoted and read up.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e1306	I mean, I do, but... Shall I continue?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e1313	Yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e1316	‘The wear and tear of tyres, summer tyres, no chains and inadequate winter driving training in drivers cause problems. Heavy-duty vehicles which are not able to drive safely on Norwegian winter roads are a serious danger to road safety, life and health. What will the Council of State do to correct this?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e1323	Norwegian rules require that motor vehicles do not need to be used without ensuring that they are sufficiently gripped with the guide. In the case of heavy goods vehicles, i.e.: a running gear of more than 3500 kg is an absolute requirement that it has a chain throughout the ‘pigg tyre period’. These rules apply to Norwegian as well as to foreign vehicles when running in Norway. Both the State Road Service and the police check that the rules are being followed. Checks are made at border crossings, ferries and other points along the road network. In order to reduce the problems caused by heavy running gear with poor tyre equipment during the winter season, the Road Directorate has encouraged the regions of Vegvesen to carry out more and more targeted checks on tyres and the use of chains. The regions shall give priority to such control when weather and pre-relationships prevail. The state Road Service states that, in some circumstances, chains taken on the running gear are not dimensioned for the wheels or that drivers do not have the right knowledge to put them on the chains. In the future, the State Road Service will intensify checks to ensure that chains follow the running gear and that drivers are able to apply them. It is clearly important that knowledge of how to use chains properly is improved. Here I would like to ask the Directorate of Road to make sure that this is better known. The state road authority's controls shall be targeted, and it is important that they are also effective. I want these controls to make sure that the drivers of heavy goods vehicles, when they come into difficult weather and road conditions, will immediately take the necessary precodes to be properly pushed. I can inform you that the State Road Service and the police today have access to a ban on use when the vehicle is not sufficiently gripped by the use of heavy tyres, chains and the like. Road authorities and police can also charge for defective tyre equipment. The police can, however, print out suggestions. If a vehicle becomes a barrier to other traffic, the police alone have the power to remove and keep the vehicle. I want the Vegvesen, in cooperation with the police, to make more active use of the possibility of taking pledges in standing vehicles. Many of the foreign heavy goods vehicles represent a special challenge in Norway. Since 2001, the Road Service has launched an information campaign, ‘Donna Diesel’, aimed at foreign heavy goods transport operators and, in particular, at Eastern European carriers. The campaign provides information on how to run on Norwegian winter roads, what rules apply, and advice on how to choose a running route in winter. Information is also given at meetings, in connection with transport fairs, videospots on ferries, dissemination of information material and a guide available on the Internet in six languages. Despite the fact that we have rules that have strict requirements for the fitting out of tyres and that good control and information work is being carried out, it is unfortunately difficult to ensure that all the vehicles meet the requirements. I would therefore like to start a work where the State Road Administration, the police and Norwegian road transport organisations took part with the Ministry of Transport to see what can be done better. The state road system is already collecting information on the number of events and will evaluate the results and calculate socio-economic impacts. Based on the experience of this winter season, which shows that the apparatus and measures are not adequate enough, work must be carried out to strengthen control at border crossings and international ferries so that most possible vehicles are controlled and refused further entry into the kingdom if they are inadequately equipped, to strengthen enforcement of enforcement rules where there are difficult running conditions, and to strengthen enforcement of bans and pledges in vehicles significantly. I also want to keep a special focus on the foreign heavy transport operators. I think we can probably do a little bit more. in connection with the entry into Norway. In my contact with the powers of government from the countries that represent particular problems in winter, I would like to point out that from the Norwegian side we want to cooperate on a safer traffic of heavy goods vehicles in Norway. I want to go on in these conversations and at other international conditions, like for example. Ministerial Conferences, pointing out that it is unacceptable to be badly spoiled on Norwegian winter roads, that such vehicles will be stopped, and that it will sweat financially.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e1349	Thanks for a response saying that road users on Norwegian winter roads can feel safer when the measures are implemented. We know that the Norwegian transport industry is often struggling with competition. Nor does competition become real when carriers can wonder about avoiding equipment and safety requirements adapted to Norwegian circumstances. Down in Europe, we know that driving with heavy-duty tyres is forbidden, and we also know that the requirement to change quickly if there is a Norwegian car. Similarly, of course, it has to apply here. In the case of vehicles which are not protected for Norwegian wintering, the loads must be provided as quickly as possible. The Council of State concludes that it is unacceptable to be poorly shunted on Norwegian winter roads, and that the vehicle that is there will be stopped and that it will be swept financially. Does the Council of State think that there may be room for increased control and enforcement of tougher sanctions to be in place as early as the next winter, when snow and cold again make driving on Norwegian roads difficult?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e1358	This winter we have seen a lot of newspaper headlines and received many messages about dangerous situations, not least in the Austland area and where the mountain passes start, which unfortunately has caused driving clothes to fail. It's really serious, and that's what makes us do a job. The aim of this work is, of course, that we should be ready for the next winter season, so that we can release so many – perhaps hopefully some – of these headlines. One thing is posted. What is worse, of course, is the consequences we also see for road safety. I have had phones from drivers, both private drivers and professional drivers, who actually feel unsafe on the roads. It's a situation that we can't live with, and I want to keep a big focus and press on this work.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e1365	I am pleased that the Minister for Transport says so clearly that she will address these problems, and I am quite sure that Norwegian road users will be very pleased that you can now see a tougher follow-up from the Norwegian side. Because, as the Council of State says, it's not just about traffic stopping, but it's also about dramatic accidents, and it's not supposed to happen again.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e1371	I think he's thinking of some of the goals. Then it's up to the council to get the process speeded up to that goal, and she'll do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e1380	My question to the Minister for Transport is as follows: ‘2006 is the first year of the national transport plan 2006 to 2015. In the same year, work on new NTPs for the period 2010–2019 has started. When starting work on a new national transport plan, it is important to carry out an evaluation of the planning process and content in order to ensure that such an important national planning document meets the overall and strategic objectives that are necessary and desirable. How has and/or will the Council of State ensure that new NTPs are developed on the basis of a broad professional and political evaluation of the work of the NTP 2006-2015?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e1389	National transport plan is the main basis for the development of transport policy. The plan is based on extensive and broad processes. In order to obtain effective and good processes — and a document that is well-suited for political leadership — evaluation is important and necessary. In this respect, thorough evaluations of the process and content have been carried out in relation to the national transport plan 2002–2011, which was the first of its kind, and the existing national transport plan. The Transport Economic Institute published in the summer of 2005 a report evaluating the management of the National Transport Plan 2006-2015 in Stortinget. The starting point for the analyses was primarily an extensive interview with the members of the Stortinget Committee. 12 out of 15 members, from all parties to the Committee, participated in the interview. In addition to the evaluation of the policy management, transport modes have provided input to the ministry on their experience from their work on the basic material for the NTP 2006–2015 and proposals for further development based on this. Internal evaluations of the planning process have also been carried out in the Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs. The evaluation of the plan has provided one basis for the planning process currently under way through the guidelines for transport networks and Avinor AS’ work on the National Transport Plan 2010–2019.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e1400	I thank you for your answer and note, among other things. users appear to be totally absent from the evaluation. There is a headline in the media today where the car operation points out that better roads are worth 62 billion kroner. There are a number of investigations and reports showing the cost to society of the lack of road standards and the lack of road maintenance. However, cross-sectoral measures are needed to eliminate extra costs and, above all, to realise socio-economic gains in road development. How will the Council of State ensure that cross-sectoral measures can better ensure that the socio-economic benefits of building up better road standards and improving road maintenance can actually be realised when we are now embarking on a new comprehensive planning process, which, hopefully, will bring road development to a better outcome?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e1407	The evaluations I referred to are quite comprehensive, both from the ETA and from the Ministry and also from the work done in Stortinget. Creating cross-sectoral work is a challenge in the context of the national transport plan, because the work itself is so extensive and labour-intensive. I'm like the representative of Sortevik that we have to see contexts in society, and not least that we have to think about prevention much more than what we're doing today. There is no doubt that by developing a better and safer provision of transport, for example, there is a need to improve the quality of transport. could save large sums of the health budget and also the budget for disability benefits. It's a huge challenge for all governments and all the great things to be able to see these contexts, and I'd like to be able to solve this together with the Blackvik representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e1412	I thank you for the answer and the invitation, which we would like to follow up. National transport plan is intended to be a national initiative programme in which national transport policy objectives and strategy are also given an economic framework. We find nationally a similar field of activity and a similar dimension in research, as I know a little from the previous period, where the objectives and strategies for and implementation of the major research programme under the auspices of the Norwegian Research Council have been evaluated by international forces, in order not to evaluate the environment itself. In any event, the Council of State will consider whether there may be grounds and the need to carry out an international evaluation of the national transport plan, including: Given that we lie a bit by country, it is natural to compare ourselves with road standards and road development?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e1419	So far, it has not been the subject of the Council of State to have an international evaluation. There is no doubt that for changing governments, it has been problematic to meet the ambitions of national transport plans. It is not about the fact that the national transport plan is not well developed. These are political priorities in each year's budget. This will also be the case in the future, and I see no reason for us to have any foreign evaluations. But more generally, it will always be interesting to get a rough look at how we also work on the plan. But now we're running on the next roll, so if it's going to be, it's necessarily going to have to be in the next round again, because the time has now passed. So now we're going to start with the next transport plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e1428	I have the following questions for the Minister for Transport: ‘Both in the treatment of the national transport plan and in the election campaign, the three government parties entered in order to increase the appropriations for transport purposes in addition to the Bondevik II Government. In the setting of the National Transport Plan, Innst. S. No 240 for 2003–04, the Centre Party intervened to increase the framework for transport purposes by 30 billion. kr for the period 2006-2015. What is the progress of the Council of State towards achieving the goal of an increase of 30 billion? kr by 2015?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e1437	In managing the National Transport Plan Storing Message as presented by the Bondevik II Government, the three current government parties had separate proposals for increasing the scope. After rejection of the submissions from the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party, they subsidized the submission from the Labour Party, which received a majority. In the election campaign, the parties naturally went in enough to join their programmes, but made it clear at the same time that they wanted to negotiate a common political platform for government cooperation. The outcome of these negotiations is reflected in the Soria Moria Declaration. In this, it is stated that the Government will increase the bet on traffic in line with the Storting decision. This represents an increase of 22 billion dollars compared to that presented by the Bondevik II government, which is the current government target today. This means a strong bet. In the short time that the Government had changed the budget proposal from the Bondevik II government in the autumn of 2005, we got a clear increase in the licenses for transportation, but not as much as desirable. In the years to come, the Government will base its budgetary policy on the Joint Declaration, including increased commitment to transport. As you know, the budget is approved for a year at a time, and I can't give a figure here and now for the next budget. It is also a clear commitment to a long-term plan that the budgets have to adapt responsibly to the fiscal situation for the single year. Let me quote here what a collective committee pronounced in the innermost. S. No 240 for 2003-2004 on the national transport plan, cf. page 8: ‘The Committee has noted that the Government stresses that the plan is primarily a priority plan and that it will be followed up in the individual budget. The Committee would stress that the plan will continue to be a project progress plan in the future and that the plan will thus provide strong leadership for the annual budgets.’;» The government will base this on its budgetary policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e1453	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I see that the Central Party does not follow its promises in connection with the NTP, and it is regrettable that they reverse what they have promised. There has been a lot of boast about these 460 million people being put into the budget for 2006. The truth is, the government is already in line with what they promised. I expect it to be revised. If this does not happen, what should voters believe about the further progress of what is granted in the transport sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e1460	Anyway, the voters have to believe that with this government, we have 460 million. kr in front of what we would have done if the Left had continued in government with the Christian People's Party and the Right. There is at least a clear message for the selector. Otherwise, the voters know very well – the representative Tenden too – that in a government platform and cooperation, it is the platform that applies, and not the individual parties' programs. They're lying there, and we've gone to the elections. We didn't get multiple alone, nor did the Left. So the same one of us who had come into government, we had to go into a partnership. We did, and we are very proud of the ambition that lies in the Soria Moria declaration of an increase of SEK 2.2 billion in the Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of Fisheries and Coast. It's my job to work to follow up, and I do that every day.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e1467	Once again, I thank the Council of State for the answer. In the election campaign, as you know, the centre party went high on the track when it came to free ferries. I expect that they are within the limits of the appropriations, and my follow-up question is: how is the progress for it with free ferries, which was a promise in the election campaign?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e1474	The government has started a free ferry bill. There is a great deal to be done where one should look at all sides, both the competitive, the socio-economic and, of course, also the impact on industrial development and bussiness in this country. That distribution shall be completed by the end of 2006 and will then form the basis for an assessment of whether some ferry sections should be made free of charge, as set out in the Soria Moria Declaration. So that work is in good hands, and it's an exciting work, which we're of course going to follow up on.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e1483	I have the following questions for the Minister for Transport: ‘We have in Norway, following each long tradition of our special form of toll collection organisation, where the initiative is both taken locally and carried out. This is important for the termination of road toll payment as an institute. The proposal for a national transport plan raised the question of establishing a state-owned toll company. The Committee on Transport did not follow up on this. The question was later raised from time to time, but it has also been rejected. Does the Council agree that this is not a good idea?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e1492	The use of tolls for road financing is a long tradition in Norway. The organisation of toll collection is based on the fact that each toll project is managed by a local-owned toll company, a scheme that has remained unchanged since this form of funding was first introduced. I think the toll collection has changed a lot in the last decade. Today, the majority of total toll revenue is based on electronic collection. This makes harmonisation of tariff systems and coordination between different companies more important and at the same time more challenging. The extent to which toll financing has gradually been provided in our country makes it particularly important to focus on how this form of funding can best be organised, with a focus on low costs and a uniform system for users. The Road Directorate believes that the cost of toll collection can be linked to the way toll financing is organised. In the first row, this applies to the toll companies themselves, but also to the users and to the state road service, who are responsible for following up the projects throughout the collection period. The Ministry of Transport has previously warned that in 2006 the Ministry will assess the organisation of toll companies and possibly return to the Stortinget. I am now awaiting a proposal from the Directorate of Roads to be heard. In this context, I would like to stress that we must in any case have a system that ensures a local political anchoring attached to the toll project in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e1505	I thank you for your answer. I record that I am not getting the answer I might have feared, namely that the Council of State agreed that it is a good idea to organise this in a state company. She makes it clear that it is the local initiative, that it is local that provides combined funding solutions, and that the money goes to the individual specific project, which is much of the cornerstone of the scheme we have had in Norway. The opposite would be to consider almost a road tax or road tax to be allocated by the central authorities. I then assume that the Council of State does not believe that such a scheme is a good idea.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e1512	I am, as Minister of Transport, as I am otherwise, very busy with local democracy. I am busy making the local initiatives that will be taken on toll collection and follow up with a local responsibility to see these projects properly in port. It was a matter in this area that the county council had to hear, and the hearing responses were very negative. I'll take that with me. As I said, there's an assessment from the Directorate of Roads. She's in trouble, and I'm of course going to deal with her in a customary way. But my attitude, I have to say, and at least I can assure the representative, is that I am not going to come to Stortinget with a case that transcends local democracy in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e1519	I thank you for your answer. I think the Council of State's position on this matter is very good. I believe as the Council of State that it is possible to find better and more rational solutions to some of the operations being carried out, and that perhaps some of it can be done in larger units. As far as I'm aware, there's also a work going on on that planet that I don't mind. But what made me a little worried was that it could seem that it was creating an impression, not from the state council itself, correctly, but from the underpants, that the matter of the state company was still being worked on. Then is my question to the Council of State: Is there no reason to spend time on such work when it doesn't seem to be political will for it?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e1528	It is interesting for the Council of State to obtain documentation from the Directorate of Roads, because I am busy finding solutions that are more cost-effective than those we have today, without overruning local bodies. Therefore, I have not stopped the work that is being done by the Road Directorate. I found it interesting to see what was presented, and I would like to assess it when it is presented. Every penny we can save on this term will benefit the drivers, the users, and I want to make sure that we can take out the winnings that we can get. I believe as the representative that there are probably several ways to do this, without us having to centralize the collection of a state-owned company. But as I said, this is a matter I have to get back to Stortinget with when I have been treated and made the assessments that I am going to make.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e1537	I allow myself to ask this question to the Minister of Knowledge: ‘The Ministry of Knowledge has recently laid down a new regulation on the conditions of employment of scholarship holders. Until now, it has been possible for scholarship holders to accumulate sick leave of a shorter duration and to add time to the scholarship period. This option has now been removed. This measure seems to be able to hit grant holders with chronic diseases unreasonably hard, as it will no longer be possible to see such sick leave ‘together’. Will the Council of State consider any measures to correct this unfairness?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e1546	The aim of a scholarship position is to complete research education up to a doctorate degree. The position is an annual target position with a normal annual target period of four years and of 25 pst. compulsory work. The extension period shall cover three years of pure research training. The Ministry of Knowledge has on 31 January 2006, in accordance with the Law on Universities and Colleges § 6-4, fourth paragraph, laid down the conditions of employment of post-doctoral, scholarship, scientific assistant and specialist candidate. The regulation includes, inter alia: provisions on the right to leave by law or collective agreement and the extension of the conditions of addition by reason of leave. It is of general concern to the Ministry that conditions should be provided for scholarship holders to complete the training of researchers within the period of addition. Thus, all previous provisions on the right of grantees to extend the period of addition due to sick leave have been maintained in the regulation. All sick leave beyond two weeks gives entitlement to the extension of the period of addition. With regard to the questions asked by the representative of Dørum, it may appear that this concerns the collection of sick leave, each of which represents less than two weeks. However, I would like to stress that when I say that all previous rules on sick leave have been maintained, this means that institutions can continue to practice in the same way as under previous legislation. We will also stress that in the event of chronic illness and other pressures, the employer must in all cases make the best possible arrangements for working conditions. In the case of many short-term absences that do not occur for two weeks, the employer may consider a unilateral reduction in the part of the compulsory work, so that the grantee can achieve the goal of completing research education up to a doctorate within the four-year period. However, there is another side to the new regulation than the questioner that we are familiar with and that I want to address. The former legislation on scholarship holders provided that in exceptional cases, a grantee could be allowed to extend the extension of the extension period for conditions that prevented the grantee from progressing in research. Examples of such circumstances were special care loads or unforeseen obstacles of a work nature that could not be loaded on the grantee. This provision was not passed on because we initially considered it to you that this was taken care of elsewhere. The government is very concerned that the scholarship holders have working conditions that enable them to complete the study and provide support for fellow students with care burdens. On the basis of the feedback we have received, we see that the new regulation could lead to a deterioration at this point, and the ministry is in the process of assessing how we can best ensure that these rights are maintained. The Ministry has also strengthened the responsibilities of the employer, among others. by specifying that both the grantee and the supervisor are responsible for the annual report on progress in the training of researchers. The Ministry has confidence that the institutions in the higher education sector are conscious of their responsibilities.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e1565	The councils and I share the view that as much as possible should be completed in a normal time. We probably also share the view that it is important that the IA agreement, the agreement on an inclusive working life, applies to everyone in the world of work. My opinion is actually in line with that of the Council of State, as I hear he expresses it. I'm concerned about chroniclers, and I'm concerned about people like that. is responsible for small children. I hear the Council of State say that in such situations it is necessary to facilitate the continuation of current practice. I've assumed that current practice provides room for this. However, in order to clear up any ambiguity of the road, it could be considered by the Ministry to include an addendum which is approximately as follows: several documented short-term absences may, upon application to the institution, provide a basis for extension if the absence is at least 10 days. Then one creates neatness around conditions that exist today, and as I hear from the Council of State that it is his purpose – I interpret it at least as his intention – to care for.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e1570	We have not tightened up the provisions relating to this. We want them to continue. But we have become aware through the process of a matter that is not affected by the representative's questions. It applies to those who have special care loads or unforeseen obstacles of a work nature that cannot be loaded on the grantee. This provision was removed, because we assumed that it was covered by other provisions, but we see through the process that this could result in a tightening that was not our intention. That means we'll get back to this. The other aspects of sick leave have been taken into account in the new regulation in line with the previous regulation, so there is no tightening of this by the department.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e1577	I was aware of the relationship that the Council of State itself took up, which went on special occasions. I think it is very good that it is corrected. What I'm actually encouraging is that the Council of States contributes to us getting the IA agreement in a positive way into the grant scheme. And I would like to insist that my small proposal to supplement the regulation that several documented short-term absences on application to the institution may provide a basis for extension if the absence is at least ten days should be in line with what the Council of State stated in its main response. The reason I've addressed the topic is that there have been different practices between institutions. In some places this has been okay, in others it has not been like this. We can probably enjoy together that the IA agreement has produced positive results in terms of sick leave in Norway, and it is in a country with academics who are also expected to work hard and properly, no reason not to catch this in a good way for them too. So I specifically ask the Council of State to consider an addition to the regulation for precisely codifying the practice that I perceive that the Council of State believes this is justified, so that this is clear to all and not just practiced in some institutions according to the goodwill of the institution.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e1586	As I have explained, all previous provisions on the right of scholarship holders to extend the period of addition on the basis of sickness are continued in the regulation. This is institutional responsibility. That means that to the extent that some institutions are in doubt about how this regulation is to be understood, it is to understand what the Council of State has now said to the representative of Dørum.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e1595	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Knowledge: ‘The size has adopted a gift-enhancing scheme in the case of large private donations to fundamental research. For 2006, it has an eartag of 50 million. SEK to this scheme, which has a minimum contribution of at least 5 million. kr. To what extent has the scheme so far been applied?"
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e1604	The gift-enhancing mechanism was adopted by the Stortinget in the context of the 2006 budgetary procedure, cf. Budget-in-one. S. No 12 for 2005-2006. The scheme implies a public contribution of 25 pst. of the amount of the gift in the case of private gifts of more than 5 million. kr. The grants shall be for long-term basic research and shall apply only to gifts given to the Norwegian Research Council, the Norwegian Academy of Sciences, universities and universities with the right to award doctoral degrees. The gifts must be given after 1 August 2004. The gift-enhancing scheme is financed over cape. 286 item 50, Research and Innovation Fund, and the 2006 budget earmarked 50 million. kr to the scheme. The guidelines for the scheme were laid down by the Ministry last week. The Research Council, which administers the scheme, will publish a date on which the grant recipients can submit a request for payment of funds under this scheme at the earliest. In view of this, no payment of funds from the scheme has yet been made. I can say that the scheme already seems to be a success. Based on a request made to the main actors by the Research Council, it is estimated that the demand for the scheme is significantly higher than provided for in the 2006 budget. I will therefore come back to this matter in connection with the revised national budget for 2006.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e1615	I thank you for the answer and I think it is nice to hear that there is a system that is covered with great interest outside. I could imagine following up on this, because it might not have been unexpected that that framework would be low, and hear if the Minister of Knowledge would consider raising the upper framework of the entire scheme if it turns out to be as popular as it is, because we have a challenge in getting private gifts to achieve the research goal in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e1620	I agree with the questioner that it is positive that many now choose to donate to Norwegian research. The gift-enhancing system is thus a system that so far seems to have been a success. We do not know today how much this is about, or how much more than the Storting has already granted to the scheme, this will result. But these are questions we will come back to in the revised national budget, when we have obtained more information about the scope. We know that there are some large individual donations that in themselves are so large that it will mean greater expenses for this scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e1627	I look forward to a revision and a review of the scheme. I would also ask the Minister of Knowledge to assess the lower limit of amounts. Five million. kr is a quite significant amount both for individual institutions and for individuals. There are many who here might be interested in contributing to this kind of research with smaller amounts.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e1634	I think it is positive that many give gifts to Norwegian research. The legislation relating to the gift-enhancing system is just in place, and, as I said in my first answer, the regulation is precisely laid down. The deadline will now be sent to those with an interest. It'll be wrong, I think, to signal a change in today's system as long as it's not even phased in yet. I will come back, as I have said, to the Storting with a statement about this related to the revised national budget. Then, of course, we'll see if there's a need for a change over time. I don't think it's right for me today to signal a change, but it's positive that private donors give money to Norwegian research institutions and Norwegian research. We need more of that -- not less.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e1643	I am delighted to ask the Minister of Knowledge the following questions: ‘The latest PISA and TIMSS studies show that Norwegian classrooms are at the noise and noise peaks of the countries surveyed. Recently, it has been claimed that Norway is medicating children with ADHD more than any other country in Europe. Concerns in class situations lead to concentration difficulties for pupils in general, but for students with concentration difficulties and ADHD in particular. What will the Council of State do to ensure that students with such challenges are better equipped to provide better-adapted education?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e1652	PISA 2003 shows that Norwegian students report a lot of anxiety and trouble in the class. The numbers from PISA show that 40 pst. by the students, noise and noise are reported in hours. 34 pst. reports that teachers have to wait a long time before the students settle down. 35 pst. The students say that much of the hour goes before they start working. About a third of Norwegian students say that the negative features of the class environment occur in most or all hours. New figures from the student inspectors for 2004–2005 coincide with the results of the PISA survey. What is said in the PISA study is supported by TIMSS. For many Norwegian classrooms, there are many interruptions and unmotivated students. Children and adolescents with ADHD are a group of students primarily struggling with attention and concentration problems and/or hyperactivity. This means that learning can be disrupted, both at school and socially. The Training Act requires all pupils to have appropriate training. Students with special needs are entitled to special education following individual decisions. Municipalities and county councils are responsible for organising the training offer. The State Special Educational Support System, Statped, may assist municipalities with guidance and professional competence. An individual training plan shall be drawn up for pupils who, after expert judgement, are entitled to special education. Students with high attention and concentration problems need special arrangements for the training situation. Students need to vary in their daily lives, while being dependent on structure and demarcation. Many people need individual guidance throughout the school day and often need offers and measures that require extensive multi-disciplinary and cross-disciplinary organisation. In order to provide students with ADHD with adapted training, there is a high standard of competence at all levels: teacher staff, school administration, educational psychological service, follow-up service, etc. A custom educational offer must be based on the student's strengths. Close cooperation with parents is necessary and regular assessment of the offer needs to be made. The special pedagogical support system has recorded increased demand for services from local level. This concerns the dissemination of knowledge about ADHD as well as development work in the field and actions aimed at individuals. The Social and Health Directorate has recently developed a guide for the diagnosis and treatment of ADHD. The guidance has been developed for primary health and specialist health services. This underlines that a medicinal product should never be administered without the implementation of other relevant aid measures, such as: support measures at school. The treating physician must follow up patients in order to detect defects in treatment, possible side effects and to record the benefits of treatment. Individual levels can coordinate actions from all sectors — including individual training plans, so-called IOPs. The supervisor and new regulations from the Social and Health Directorate are tightening up the drug supply to children. A functional study for school-based support measures shall be available prior to any medical treatment. Sintef has been entrusted with the task of evaluating the legislation, the guide and the development of the use of medicinal products. The Storting asked in Budget-inner. S. No 12 for 2005-2006 The Government explains how research efforts and practical work, interdisciplinary and across administrative levels, can be strengthened to help children and young people with ADHD and similar behavioural difficulties. The Directorate of Education has been entrusted with the task of producing a report by 15 April 2006. The report will help form the basis for our further work in the field.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e1675	I thank the Council of State for a good and complementary response to a very important and difficult issue. I am pleased that the Council of State will come back to this issue after the directorate has made the report. At the same time, we are aware that the Norwegian school is among the world's most integrated schools. We have very few special school services with specially organized education for students with special needs, including: students with behavioural difficulties, ADHD, concentration challenges, etc. The reports and feedback to which the Council of State refers in its response, both from the Student Inspectors, PISA and TIMSS, show that the state of Norwegian school is very serious. This is the question to the Council of State: Will the Council of State assess the possibility of setting up special offers outside the ordinary school for students with particular challenges in the ordinary day of school?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e1686	Of course, it's true that it's a big challenge to have a student environment in the class that stimulates learning. The fact that there is a lot of anxiety in Norwegian classrooms is a challenge for the school and for us as politicians as to how we should facilitate that students actually have school security and that the learning environment should be good. We have now, related to ADHD problems, started more projects and investigations, to which I referred in my first post, and we will come back to how we will follow this further up. But it is clear that when the student inspectors also point to the concerns of the class – TIMSS does and PISA studies do – this is something we have to attack on a broad scale. But I will not now consider how to follow up those reports, and what will be the conclusion of these reports. It's way too early to have some sense of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e1693	I look forward to the further follow-up to this issue. In recent times, there has been a lot of focus on this, among other things. after the NRC carried out a study related to violence against teachers in school. It turns out that evolution is frightening, and there are increasing numbers of teachers who are subjected to serious and serious violence and threats in school everyday life. It illustrates that we have a general problem in Norwegian school related to calm and order, not only in relation to those students who have special needs for organisation, but it may also indicate that anxiety is growing, so that a person gets more and more challenges in Norwegian school, and then it is necessary to take a national action, in our opinion, to get control of the difficult situation. The question of follow-up will then be: what will the city council do to get the national control that will bring us back peace and order in Norwegian classrooms?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e1702	Now it is asked whether it has ever been in Norwegian history that calm and order is what characterizes Norwegian classrooms. Clearly, children are different, and children need different forms of viewing. We also believe, from our point of view, that more educators in school are important measures for children to have the opportunity to adapt to education. Then there are some children who need more help and guidance, and they also have a right to that according to Norwegian law. But anxiety in general is a problem that we want to address. The students themselves say it is a problem, and international studies show that it is a problem. But what we also know is that many of the students who are actually in trouble and trouble need special measures, and therefore it is not necessarily at all related to the ADHD problem. But this is a problem that goes far beyond just applying to the students who have as extensive diagnostics as that. These are things we're dealing with. But initially, this is going to be an organization at school. And it's clear that it's going to be the pedagogue, the teacher and the school management who have to basically make sure that there's a good learning environment in school. But, of course, from the Department and Government, we need to do what we can to monitor and provide advice and guidance through the Directorate, through the county councillors and through the various arrangements we have, and possibly come back to special measures when the report is on my desk.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e1711	I will ask the Minister for Labour and Inclusion the following questions: ‘A main objective of the NAV reform was and is to create a comprehensive and efficient welfare management tailored to the needs of users. The NAV offices shall offer individually adapted measures and close follow-up to the individual. If this is to become a reality, the staff of the NAV offices must have good knowledge of the instruments, benefits, etc. in several different laws. This requires thorough and systematic training of a large number of employees. What are the concrete training plans of the Council of State for those to work at the NAV offices by 2010?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e1720	Both St. prp. No 46 for 2004-2005 and the Committee’s position emphasises the need to ensure a high level of competence for the new labour and welfare management. For the treatment of St.prp. No 46 The Stortinget adopted the following unanimous decision: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that a plan of overall competence development is drawn up in the new labour and welfare management.’ The Ministry has asked the interim implementation organisation, NAV Interim, to draw up this competence plan. The plan shall support the achievement of the objectives of the reform and shall cover the scope of competence needs and actions both in order to fulfil the purely State tasks and in relation to the tasks to be jointly undertaken by the State and the municipality. The plan shall include, inter alia: focus on areas of competence that are critical for the establishment of local labour and welfare offices. Community and state-wide competence and professional development programmes shall be developed based on common work processes and common/coherent methodology. It is important that we acquire broad and complex competences in the common first-line service. This first line must have local knowledge of working life and business which takes account of the social professional perspective of the provision of services. Last but not least, the plan shall ensure a common heightening of competence and common cultural construction so that the two state agencies actually become one establishment. The plan shall also take into account the competence needs of the new agency as a result of the introduction of a new pension scheme. The plan will focus in particular on needs and responses in the coming years. The competence plan shall be in place during the spring of 2006. That part of the plan relating to the common first line service shall be drawn up in cooperation with the KS. Otherwise, the plan will be drawn up in close cooperation with the Directorate-General for Social Security and Health, with NAV Interim as the coordinating and responsible body. In addition, the Ministry of Labour and Inclusion has launched a specific work focusing on the competence challenges of the new labour and welfare management in a longer-term perspective. Key themes in this work are the training and recruitment of new competences, the organisation and arrangement of higher education/university education services in relation to the skills needs of the new labour and welfare management, and issues related to the responsibilities and roles of different bodies in this field. This work will provide the basis for a more detailed discussion of skills challenges and strategies for the labour and welfare management of the EEAS on work, welfare and inclusion, which will be presented in autumn 2006.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e1740	I thank the Council of State for a thorough answer. The knowledge of legislation and instruments of employees is very important for the new labour and welfare management. Another important factor is close and good cooperation between employees with different backgrounds. Some employees come from highly regulated activities. Others have experience from more discretionary proceedings. To what extent and in what way are training measures addressing the co-operation challenges involved in the close cooperation of different professions and cultures now?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e1749	As I said in my first answer, it is probably just the kind of issues and challenges that Woie Duesund is facing here, which have to be addressed in particular in the plan. I very much agree with Woie Duesund that the main challenge related to NAV is not the actual aggregation of the different businesses, but what happens in the everyday life of the new NAV offices as they become established – from summer on and forward. If you get into the situation that the different cultures live on separately in the NAV offices, you are equally far. I think we share the common analysis that that's what happens after the establishment, which is actually the most important thing, and not all that we do before it. In this way, empowerment is essential.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e1758	I thank you again for the answer. Experience from previous national migrations shows that older workers are too much pushed out of the labour market and into early retirement, waiting benefit or disability pension. This is very unfortunate. Both the social security system, the Aetat and the social services have a relatively high proportion of older workers. These represent a significant competence and, in particular, their inclusion in NAV is important. How will the State Council prevent the exclusion of older workers during the implementation of the new Employment and Welfare Act, and to what extent will the planned training measures be adapted to older workers?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e1767	This is a very important topic. The most important basis for preventing exclusion may be that we have made it very clear that no one will be abandoned in the wake of the NAV reform. This is not, therefore, a reform in which fewer employees are required to provide the same services. Often it is the motive for merging different businesses. It's not the motive here. There has been a very clear signal to all employees that no one will lose the job. At the same time, it's quite obvious that everyone can't do the exact same work they're doing today – then we can't build the new one. That's why there's a very central challenge in creating transition, but creating transition under security. So you're not in danger of losing your job, but you have to plan on doing a slightly different job. We're taking that seriously in the process we're now in.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e1780	‘1. In February 2006, the Norwegian Council of State stated that he assesses the age limit for bringing spouses to Norway, as part of a political strategy to prevent forced marriage. Does the Council of State mean that raising the age limit for the collection of spouses will help girls who are subjected to forced marriage?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e1787	As part of the work on new foreign law, I consider a number of measures to combat forced marriage. One of the measures proposed in NOU 2004:20 New Foreign Law is the introduction of a 21-year limit for a foreign spouse to be granted a residence permit in Norway. The aim of the proposal is to prevent young people from being subjected to coercion and serious pressure in connection with marriage. The Foreign Law Committee shall state the following reasons for its proposal: ‘The idea behind such an increased age requirement is that, both as a result of personal maturity and as a result of a more independent position in relation to the family, older parties have a greater opportunity to oppose family pressure in relation to decisive choices in life.’ Since Denmark introduced an increased age requirement of 24 for spouse immigration, the number of marriages among immigrants and non-Western descendants aged less than 24 has fallen dramatically. This suggests that there has also been a significant reduction in the number of cases of coercion and marital pressure. At the same time, there are also arguments that speak against an increased age requirement. The Foreign Law Committee points out that there is a danger that young girls will still be taken to their home country and remarried against their will, and that the age requirement could in that case lead to further abuse by being detained in their home country until the age requirement is met. Furthermore, the age requirement will also affect persons entering into marriages based on full volunteering on the part of the parties. Consultation bodies have been divided into views on the proposal for a 21-year limit on family immigration for spouses. In the light of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the hearing, I consider, inter alia: whether an increased age requirement should be introduced into the Norwegian Foreign Affairs Act. I have not yet concluded on what measures against forced marriage should be implemented. I intend to make proposals for a new foreign law by the end of 2006.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e1805	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I would add that the age limit will happen at random and not necessarily where you had thought, which the Council of State was also concerned with in its answer. When Jens Stoltenberg visited Pakistan last December, he said: ‘We must not suspect all Pakistani marriages, even if they are forcible. But in order not to suspect the majority, we have to knock them down. There, we need to cooperate with Pakistani authorities.’ Stoltenberg thus launched the idea of a commission between Pakistan and Norway against coerciveness, which seems to be a good measure to combat coerciveness. Can the Council of State say anything about the progress of the work of this Commission?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e1821	I believe that the Commission has been set up, but I have to take all possible reservations and have to be allowed to come back to the representative with an answer to that. I know that in connection with Stoltenberg's visit at least the job is quite thorough with this subject, but I have to get back with the answer. I would like to say that what is the challenge of counter-compulsory measures is that there are no measures that are such that they only work positively, and there is no risk of negative effects. I feel that every time you discuss different measures, there are a lot of people who are good at arguing against proposals for action, but I lack a greater ability to promote alternative proposals for action. If it is true that you want to combat coerciveness, it is not enough to oppose proposals for action. In that case, we must promote our alternative proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e1834	The previous government put in place a 40-point plan. Will the Council of State follow it up? There are a number of measures that focus on the challenge faced by the previous government.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e1839	Yeah, we're following that plan. But my analysis is that even if we follow up and implement these measures, that is not enough. The government believes that there is a need for new, targeted long-term action against forced marriage. This coercion is part of a culture to be combated. It is not acceptable on the basis of Norwegian circumstances for young people to be co-married. That's why we, both the previous government and we, have done a lot of work, but we're not in the goal. That is why I hope that we can work together with the Stortinget, where we are reviewing various proposals. Clearly, the Danish model is a quite drastic model. It is easy to argue against it, even if it is also possible to argue for parts of it. But, as I said, it's important not only to be concerned about what you're against, but also to focus on what you're for.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e1848	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Labour and Inclusion: ‘Converters in Iran may risk their lives. This is confirmed by an Amnesty report of 16 February 2006 at the latest. The foreigner’s practical note of 27 May 2005 states that ‘as long as one leaves one’s new faith a private matter, one will not risk anything by having converted’. It would be wrong, both under the UN Convention on Human Rights and the UN Convention on Refugees, to limit the right to convert into a private matter. Will the Council of State contribute to correcting the practice of the foreign student in order to grant asylum when believers are persecuted?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e1862	I would like to start by mentioning that the representative Lilletun in question No. 144 to answer in writing addressed some of the same issues. In response of 23 November 2005, I presented my assessments. In this case, it is important to stress that Norway provides asylum to persons who are persecuted for their faith. Norway is bound by the Refugee Convention, and as a result, persecution on the basis of religion forms the basis for refugee status. Norway shall grant asylum to those who fulfil the conditions of the Convention, including to converters. This does not mean, however, that all who say they will be subjected to such persecution or that all those who belong to a given direction of faith in a country will qualify for asylum. Foreigners’ authorities assess whether each asylum seeker needs protection. Unfortunately, some people claim an asylum base that is not real. It is the task of the non-resident authorities to assess the credibility of such information. In several cases, the lack of credibility of the applicant leads to rejection. For example, it is not uncommon for people to convert after they have come to Norway as asylum seekers, and in several cases after they have been refused their application. This does not necessarily mean that the conversion is not real, but it is seen in cases where it has only been carried out in order to obtain an authorisation in Norway. The foreign authorities have very good knowledge of the situation in Iran. Last year, an independent country information unit was established to obtain all relevant information on the countries from which Norway receives asylum seekers. They are based on a number of independent sources. Norway also has an ambulatory foreign attaché responsible for obtaining information on the general situation in Iran and for examining concrete data. In addition, the alienation authorities undertake their own journeys. I am aware that the human rights situation in Iran is difficult. The Ministry is following the practice, but I am confident that the assessments of the foreign agencies are in line with our international commitments. Norway participated in an expert meeting of the EU Commission in November, where asylum practices for Iran were the main theme. The meeting showed that Norwegian foreign authorities have good knowledge of the situation in Iran. The information provided during the meeting also showed that, in so far as Norwegian practices for Iran differ from other European countries, this is in the form of more authorisation in Norway. Norwegian practice in the case of Convertites does not differ in a restrictive direction. Based on the knowledge of Iran by foreign agencies, the death penalty for conversion from Islam has not been practised in recent years. There are several thousand converts in Iran. Many of these are members of active church communities, without causing them to have special problems with the authorities. Thus, there is no indication that those who convert will be persecuted in Iran for that reason alone. Based on the knowledge of the alienation authorities about the situation in Iran, it is initially those who have become ordained to performers and actively pursue out-of-court activities to reverse Muslims, who have been particularly vulnerable. On this basis, the non-resident authorities make an individual assessment as to whether persons seeking to engage in active mutilation may be at risk of persecution.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e1881	I thank the Council of State for the answer, but I can't say that I'm particularly satisfied with it, even though I give the Council of State the right thing to do, because with conversion, this can quite clearly be misused, and that this is quite obviously difficult to figure out. But from the time I got the previous answer, two things have happened. The one thing goes on the quote I have been familiar with from the practice note from the Study of Foreign Affairs, and my follow-up question will be: Is the Council of State in agreement that one can say that ‘as long as one leaves one’s new faith a private matter, one will not risk anything by having converted’? Is there not a clear violation of the UN Convention on Human Rights and the Convention on Refugees? Furthermore, we have received this Amnesty report, which says in concrete terms that converts can risk life. It is as new as from 16 February 2006. That's the other new information that I've been using. Would it not also have to affect the Norwegian treatment of these cases?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e1890	I would like to say so that I fully agree with the representative Lilletun that here we are going to follow very closely. But the starting point must be – and this is how I read this sentence from the UDI – that having converted from Islam to Christianity in itself is not a basis for automatic persecution in Iran. There is no basis for saying that all those who have converted are persecuted and are therefore to stay in Norway. It is therefore necessary to establish a practice relating to individual assessment in each case. It is in line with the best traditions of Norwegian foreign administration – everyone has the right and the right to an individual treatment. In that case, the UDI shall pay particular attention to the situation in Iran. The Iranian citizens who are actually being persecuted as a result of their conversion are to be protected. But there can't be any automatic here.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e1899	I would then like to ask the Council of State whether this sentence can be interpreted in such a way, in the light of the Council of State, that, of course, the person who has converted should have the right to participate in a church, participate in church sound life, participate in ordinary society. A philologist is not required to see that this phrase can be read in another way. There's a state council that's perfectly clear about what's right, based on human rights and the refugee convention. The second is that the United Nations report now before us has been subject to a review? And will one from the department and foreign agencies' side sharpen the attention?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e1906	Without prejudice to the fact that I got all the shades in the representative Lilletun now said, I think that the wording is in line with the opinion I have of how the situation should be understood. Subject to hearing correctly, I agree with that. As I said in my answer, we put very, very much emphasis on being up-to-date on the situation in Iran because we know that this is a demanding situation. We know that this is difficult in relation to human rights. I'm going to make sure that the Joint Country Information Unit of UDI and UNE has received this report. I'll believe that, but to be absolutely sure I'll check it, and of course give a feedback to Lilletun.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e1915	Question 20 will be answered before question 29.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e1922	This question, from May-Helen Molvær Grimstad to the Minister for Labour and Inclusion, will be answered by the Minister for Children and Gender Equality who directs him.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e1925	I have the following questions for the Minister for Children and Gender Equality: ‘Some women experience discrimination in working life on the grounds of pregnancy and maternity leave. What will the Council of State do to ensure that equality laws are better known to employers, strengthen skills in this area and strengthen women's rights in the labour market?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e1934	I will answer the question from the representative of Molvær Grimstad as the appropriate Council of State. The legislation of the day shall provide adequate protection for pregnant permit holders. Under the Environmental Protection Act, the employer is obliged to organise the work, the employee is protected from dismissal and has extensive leave rights. The Swedish Social Security Act grants the right to financial compensation in the event of absence during pregnancy or during leave. This is done in the form of sickness benefits, maternity benefits and maternity benefits. Workers are also entitled to return to the same post as before the leave. The Equality Act prohibits discrimination on grounds of pregnancy, breast-feeding and the use of leave rights reserved for one sex. In principle, any discrimination on grounds of pregnancy and childbirth would be contrary to the Equality Act. However, when some women experience discrimination, this is not primarily a consequence of lack of rights, but a consequence of not always complying with legislation. The representative, Molvær Grimstad, here points to an important challenge. This challenge needs to be addressed to many actors, not least the social partners, who have an important role to play in relation to individual businesses and industries. Furthermore, the Equality and Discrimination Ombudsman is an important premiscuous provider in putting such issues on the agenda. We do not have enough knowledge of the extent and nature of discrimination against pregnant women in the labour market. Few studies directly address this issue. For me, an important prerequisite for developing accurate responses is to know more about the problem. This applies in addition to the extent of discrimination, the ways in which women are discriminated against, and the stages in which such discrimination takes place, whether it is during pregnancy, during leave or on return from leave. We have therefore planned to carry out a monitoring of pregnancy discrimination. The project will be implemented in dialogue with the social partners and the new Equality and Discrimination Ombudsman. This will ensure the best possible project and, at the same time, will produce positive ring-effects in the form of increased knowledge and awareness-raising. Finally, I would like to mention the introduction of the right to holiday pay of maternity benefits proposed in Ot.prp. No 12 for 2005-2006, to which the Committee acceded at the Odelstinget meeting on 9 March. This is an important change that ensures that pregnant women on maternity pay do not lose money on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e1947	I thank the Council of State for your answer. The background to my question to the Minister of Labour and Inclusion was that the Council of State has a special responsibility towards the social partners. Although I know that equality laws are under the responsibility of the Minister for Children and Gender Equality, I think this is such an important matter that she needs to enter into the dialogue, so that a person is made even better aware of the partners in the business community. I trust that the Minister for Gender Equality will bring that dialogue fully into the government, because the law is clear, but practice shows that people experience discrimination. I think this might be a little bit of a hidden problem. We get to the right a lot of stories about people who can't go to battle with their own employer because it's too burdensome. Having children should be a joy, not a tax associated with taking care of their rights. In order to gain more competence and information when it comes to this, did I wonder whether a research should not be carried out in order to find out what the scope is?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e1956	At first I want to say that I am very pleased that there is a strong commitment from the Storting in this field. We know that the continuing discrimination against pregnant women in the labour market is unacceptable. Therefore, I fully agree with the representative that it does not help that we have a good law, adopted by the Norwegian Storing, if we do not ensure that the social partners also follow the rules that have been drawn up. Then I want to say that for the government, the rights of pregnant women are an important matter. Now the law is with me, but I can assure you that the Minister of Labour is also very concerned about these issues, and that the entire Government naturally supports the answer I am giving now. With regard to the project that we are now launching, it is important that the social partners actively address that aspect. It is important that we develop good tools to measure the situation of pregnant women in the workplace. If there is a need for new research and knowledge building, we will take care of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e1967	I thank the Council of State for your answer. The challenge is that some people know well about equality laws, but break them even if they know it's against the law. When it comes to the public sector, we've heard about a municipality where it became a matter. A woman who did not get the job she had first been promised received a compensation of NOK 300000. If one deliberately breaks the law, are the consequences strict enough? Those who know the law well are one thing, but then there are some social partners who may not know the law well enough. Do you want to go out with an information campaign or something? And can a person think of severe reactions to lawbreakers?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e1974	What I can answer the representative is that it is of the things that the government will also assess when you have received the review. If there is a need to tighten up the law, and how criminal reactions are perceived, will be an important assessment, which we will, of course, make once we have this review. So I can promise you that we'll take a close look at this.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e1984	‘At its meeting on 27 February 2006, the Eastfold Police Union raised the issue of detention centres in a new prison in Halden. Can the Council of State confirm that this type of place will be incorporated into the new prison?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e1991	Yes. I could almost have left it with that answer, but I can confirm that. Incarceration is planned for 251 places, including 227 closed and 24 open. A separate custody unit is planned in prison. The prison will be built for flexibility between custody stations and ordinary places. Therefore, the number of custody sites could vary, depending on the need at all times. I also feel the need to add that I have had dialogue with, among other things. The Police Joint Union in Eastfold, who has raised this question before. I have also gained experience that they have received the same answer in the past. With regard to the situation in the eastern part of the country, we follow closely the issue of detention. In addition to the establishment of Holden Prison, action is now being taken to improve the situation of care. In 2006, a total of 31 places were opened in Oslo and Drammen prisons, and during 2006 I intend to open another 67 prisons in Åna, Bredtvedt, Sarpsborg, Bergen and Ilseng.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e2000	I thank you for the answer, and it's a confirmation that we appreciate. As the Council of State is probably familiar with, 75 pst is coming. of all goods by road across the border crossings of Svinesund and Ørje. Being the gateway to Europe gives us some challenges. There will be many border crossings. The cell bus we've got in place has been an important tool and an important help to reduce some of the resources used for transport, but per. Today, many qualified police officers are used in transport work. With such a positive initial response, I would also like to hear: What can the Council of State do to help ensure that more policemen are released from driving, transport, in the short term?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e2009	There are two things I think can improve the situation regarding the police's workload. Firstly, I am pleased with the questioner's angle on the question, because we are constantly being urged to strengthen the police. But we can do that with other methods than just pure appropriations. What the representative is now asking about is one of the important recordings we can take with us about getting more police resources, about the fact that the police don't have to carry custody prisoners, and I want, among other things. also mention their handling of people with mental health problems. There are two elements I think we need to bring here. That's what I said in the beginning, that we have to build more prisons. The government is doing well. I'm glad to say that we're already opening up nearly 98 new places this year, and they're going to benefit the central eastern region, where there's a lot of pressure. The second element of the government is looking at who is going to do the transport operation itself. There the government sees it possible to allow actors other than the purely police-trained to carry out the transport, as well as the detention system we have in several prisons.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e2020	I also thank you for this answer, and I see that here it is possible to find good solutions. But, as the Council of State is probably aware, in Eastfold too, prisoners have had to be released from custody in recent times. There are probably a lot of elements that relate to people's perception of legal certainty, but violations in the criminal chain are probably a contribution to our getting a negative spiral. In Eastfold, we have 41 places, and per. today's date we have 36 in custody. Throughout 2005, and also in 2006, we need 70 custody sites, so there's a gaping need between what we have and what we need. I'm glad that the red-green government follows up what the Bondevik government did in building a new prison in Halden, but I think we have to think completely here. We also have to think of it as a whole, in order to maintain the sense of legal certainty for everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e2029	It's true that we're following up on the intentions of building in Halden. But the prison in Halden will not be in place until 2009, so we had to come up with some extra measures beyond the Bondevik regime. The previous government left a reward queue of almost 2,500 people, and we thought that there was a need to further strengthen the effort in relation to this, in addition to what the Bondevik government actually proposed. The 100 places I'm referring to are largely the result of the additional effort that came into the supplementary proposition last year. I hope, of course, that the parties that formed the Bondevik government will help to give us support for the efforts that are now being made to get more places, so that we avoid people being released from custody, and that people have to wait so long to get a response. It weakens the confidence in the criminal justice chain if such conditions are to exist. That's why this is one of the most important tasks of the red-green government.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e2040	I will ask the Minister of Justice the following questions: ‘The use of custody has increased and is likely to be the same before persons with a type of crime other than that which has been common are sentenced to detention. The challenge will then be whether the system is well prepared for the new ‘target group’ and whether the necessary measures have been taken. Can the Council of State assure me and Stortinget that all necessary security measures are/are in place in the interests of relevant staff and prisoners in Norwegian prisons, so that the execution of detention sentences provides all necessary security?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e2049	Crime prevention is active both in the maintenance and renewal of all security measures throughout the organisation in the interests of both employees, prisoners and society in general, as addressed by the representative. In view of recent developments in the use of custody, the central government of criminal services has reviewed the possible consequences for the criminal justice system. A risk assessment has been carried out and further work has been started on the review of legislation regulating the introduction and implementation of custody. I can assure you that criminal justice is well under way with the necessary preparations for dealing with this type of detention. The budgetary implications of this work may well come back to me in the ordinary budgetary process.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e2056	I record that the Council of State believes that there is control here – or at least a certain degree of control. It is such that, among other things: the undersigned has visited Ila and looked at the detention centre up there. Most of those employed there today are relatively weak criminals — if you can use such a term. So they do not commit the toughest, the most violent crime, but some other heavy crime, among other things. in relation to morality. The new regime we're going to see is people who've committed serious and serious, repeated crime, and let what we've seen on Aker Brygge and so on, which, in my opinion, is a completely different type of segment of criminals. Obviously, these are people with a different ability to manipulate, to take on roles, and who have a bigger network on the outside than is usual today. Therefore, I look forward to hearing the thoughts of the Council of State on how we can ensure that these do not gain power in prisons. How can we ensure that they do not actually become a threat to the other prisoners?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e2063	I do not want to link my answer to concrete, undecided and non-judicial criminal convictions. The representative links it up to some specific issues. I don't want to do that, but I want to make it clear to Stortinget that the job that is already done in criminal matters reassures me about the important aspects that the representative addresses: Safety in relation to both the employees, the prisoners and others. In particular, I would like to highlight the work done on Ila in relation to those who are already in custody, a job that I believe is good, and where the employees are doing a great job. I have also recently visited Stavanger Prison and seen the security measures that include: were initiated in the context of custody detention pending the NOKAS case. It reassures me that the authorities are doing their job in relation to very specific security measures, which have been very well associated with Stavanger prison. The big job as employees, including: In Stavanger prison, have done to deal with a difficult situation, also make me calm.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e2070	I record that the Council of State boasts of what has happened in Stavanger. I think that's very good, and that's important. It will then be interesting to know if the Council of State intends to continue this when, at least provisionally, those who have been convicted in the first instance, may end up with a detention warrant, so that they have full security, similar to what the Council of State has just boasted about the process so far. Another thing I could imagine hearing the thoughts of the Council of State about is whether you should take an initiative to start research on what happens to people after you have served a custody sentence. Clearly, there is a need to gain experience from what is happening on the inside, but also from when these people return to society, so that action can be taken, perhaps through several departments, to prevent them from coming back again. It's an important aspect of using the custody regime, as I see it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e2079	It is in my previous answers that I believe that we are sufficiently prepared to deal with future detention sentences, quite independently of specific issues that are now going on and that have not been settled in law. The experience we have so far in relation to the imprisonment and detention of people who qualify for custody sentences, I believe, gives a signal that we are on the right track, although – and I should not underestimate this – these are major challenges for the criminal justice system. I am pleased that the representative has just addressed the content of the criminal justice activities in this way, because we need an increased political focus on this in terms of criminal policy actions in general. I am also very pleased that the representative asks about research. I think it is absolutely necessary not only to initiate new types of research, but also to strengthen the research already in progress in relation to the experience we are now making, precisely to ensure that the political decisions to be taken about detention and other criminal reactions are much more knowledge-based and not event-driven.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e2090	I would like to ask the following questions: ‘The role of experts in justice is under debate and criticism, including in the area of child protection. The Bondevik government put down a selection to look at this. At the same time, the Department's guidelines allow experts in county and courts to be recruited from people who are often responsible for child protection. Does the Council of State see that this may be unfortunate and that experts should either work for the protection of children or for the courts?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e2099	As the representative of Grande is well known, in September 2005, the Bondevik II government set up a selection, among other things. assess whether a specific control body should be established to carry out subsequent checks and quality assurance of expert reports on child-protection matters. The report of the committee shall be available during this month. With regard to the more fundamental view of the fact that the same persons can take on the task of expert investigators for the municipal child protection service, and at the same time sit as expert members or co-judges in the county and courts respectively, I will come back to it thoroughly when the report of the sample is available. However, I would like to show that it is considered to have been, at least, a strength for expert members of the county and court that they have experience in various stages of a child protection case. It is precisely this experience and the in-depth knowledge of the subject that allows them to get the name expert. Secondly, I would like to point out that the rules on stability applicable to the county and the court should ensure that the experts and the co-judgments are hafile and independent in each case. Experts who have had an opinion on the matter at an earlier stage in the case will be excluded from taking part in the proceedings in the State or Court of Justice. However, it may be a problem if the same experts continue to undertake expert work for the same municipality. In these cases, the private party may experience that the experts who undertake an investigative task for the municipality do not appear to be neutral and independent because they are appointed and paid by the municipality. In order to ensure that the experts appointed to investigate cases for the municipal child protection service are experienced as independent and neutral by the private party, the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality has asked the county councillors to assist the municipalities in appointing an expert in matters where the municipality and the private party do not reach an agreement on who is to be appointed. This means that in such cases the municipalities can contact the county, which will appoint the expert. In these cases, the expert will be appointed from a register of experts who have completed the training programme in the field of pediatric expertise. The register is managed by the Norwegian Psychological Association and is regularly updated. Finally, I would like to draw attention to the fact that it is difficult today to recruit a sufficient number of experts to carry out these tasks. If a system was to be set up whereby the experts would either have to work as expert investigators for the municipal child protection service or as members of the county or court, this recruitment would naturally become more difficult.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e2110	I would first like to thank you for your answer. I am glad that the Council of State also says that this is something she will come back to. This is tough stuff for those who are involved. It is also very important that agencies to make such tough decisions have confidence. I agree with the views of the Council of State that it is also important that they have competence, of course. We live in a country that has many dense, small local environments, which can contribute to both joys and sorrows in such matters. The fact that you have dense, small environments, allows you to help each other, but it's also challenging. So I'm just wondering if the Council of State can elaborate on whether she agrees with me that it's important to have trust, but that there are also some special challenges in Norway, with our social structure, in creating that trust.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e2119	I could have answered very briefly that I fully share the assessment of the representative of Trine Skei Grande. There is no doubt that the structure we have in our municipalities makes many live in some rather small units that help to make some things quite transparent. It is important in these cases that we have legal certainty for individuals who experience what they are actually doing in these cases. Therefore, we are now also waiting for this sample to be finished with its work, and I can assure you that the Government will do its utmost to ensure that we follow up and emphasize this in the way it actually deserves. Here I can promise that there is no political disagreement between the representative and the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e2124	I would like to follow up on what the Council of State said in its statement, namely the recruitment of these professional communities, and ask whether the Council of State is also concerned about focusing on how we are going to increase recruitment to this field, when she is going to have a review of that field.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e2129	It's a bit of the work that we have to follow up when we get the report. Now we're collecting the experience base. I try to get involved in the scope of these issues, and I will naturally also take a look at how we can ensure that we get the necessary professional staff into these important positions to be held. I have to get that opportunity to come back to, but once again I can assure you that we are taking this very seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e2138	I would like to ask the Minister of Culture and the Church the following questions: ‘The NRC plays an important role in public broadcasting. Not least to ensure a broad offer to the people. It is now apparent that heavy industrial interests in the oil industry are sponsoring NRK’s new series ‘Norwegian oil history’. This raises questions about the NRK’s press ethics, about what the public broadcaster may allow within the rules on sponsorship, but also about their objective role and whether the general broadcasting requirements are too far placed here. What will the Council of State do to ensure that the NRC does not weaken its role as a public broadcaster?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e2147	I take it seriously when there are doubts about the credibility of the NRK and the company's role as a public broadcaster. The legitimacy of the NRK as licence-funded public broadcasters depends on the fact that the NRK appears to be a credible and independent alternative, regardless of financial interests. Let me first say that according to today's legislation – with certain limitations – the NRK has the opportunity to receive funding for television programmes. Sponsorship may take place, inter alia: subject to the following assumption: ‘Content and presentation in sponsored programmes’ is ‘so that the editorial integrity of the broadcaster is fully maintained’, as stated in the Broadcasting Act §3-4, second paragraph. Other key provisions require that the public be made aware of the fact that the producer has received a sponsorship grant and that the programme does not encourage the public to purchase the products or services of the sponsor or third party. It is the Media Regulatory Authority that supervises compliance with the sponsorship legislation. According to the press reference, the current oil history programme series is planned for the autumn. Oversight is based on ex-post verification of compliance. I believe, of course, that the NRK is both in this specific case and otherwise in relation to the legislation in this area. I also point out that the Swedish Broadcasting Council, which has the task of discussing and commenting on the main lines of the NRC programme activities, has said that they will look at this specific matter. On the other hand, it is also interesting to assess whether the legislation for sponsoring NRK’s programme activities is good enough. As mentioned above, the NRK may receive grants from sponsors for programme production. Paragraphs 3 to 13 of the RRP limit this possibility for NRK to broadcasts from sporting events, self-production of important national events and educational programmes. There is hardly any doubt that the specific legislation applicable to the NRC is intended to limit sponsorship to certain types of programmes. These rules are, in the light of the NRK's specific position as licence-funded public broadcasters, stricter than the sponsorship rules applicable to other broadcasters. If it is the case that the NRK still sends programmes that should not be sponsored under the NRK-specific rules, because the regulation does not prevent sponsorship when the production is carried out by an external manufacturer, we need to check whether the legislation is good enough. I have started an internal work in the Ministry to go through NRK's commercial activities with a view to contributing to the achievement of what we say in the Soria Moria Declaration's objective of ‘holding NRK as licence-funded, advertising-free public broadcasting and continuing the role of the NRK as media of culture, language and national identity’, and that work will, among other things, take place. include an assessment of legislation and practices for the sponsorship of NRK programmes.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e2162	I am pleased that the Council of State is taking these challenges and issues seriously, and that he is now starting work to look at the funding and sponsorship of the NRK. It is obvious that there are some limits to the extent to which sponsorship activities in the NRC can be carried out. We saw an example in connection with the O.L., where sponsorship posters were also inserted in connection with the O.L. broadcasts. And when you heard NRK on the radio, you could almost think that you were listening to P4. We also see in the latest study by the State Institute of Consumer Research that most people are getting quite tired of TV advertising. Three out of four say they are tired of TV advertising. And that gives some challenges to the NRK in the sense that if the NRK becomes more and more commercial, it could lead to undermining people's interest in paying the license. That's why I want to ask the Council of State if he's thinking about where the boundaries of sponsorship go, regardless of our law.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e2169	I don't think it's a good thing that the Council of States has a lot of opinions about the boundaries of sponsorship regardless of the legislation that exists. I think it's good to stick to it. The representative Gjul refers to an investigation where people say they're getting tired of advertising, and I can agree to that. I can also be it when I watch TV. It's mainly because of the integrity and credibility of the NRK that we have to have strict rules for sponsorship in the NRK. We have opened up sponsorship, especially in relation to major sporting events and some other major national events. I think it's necessary to have that kind of openness for it in order to get at all such arrangements on your legs and get them on the air. It's when you go into editorial programs where the sponsors might have a connection to the matter being discussed, that we're starting to move into a very problematic landscape. As I said, it's the media surveillance that controls. It is probably not lucky that the political authorities sit and directly control what is sent to Norwegian broadcasters. That check comes later, and if it turns out that the NRK has failed, the reactions will of course come as a result.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e2178	I share the views of the Council of State that it is not at least important in relation to the integrity and credibility of the NRK in the matter of sponsorship, and that is precisely what is raised in connection with the NRK's new series on Norwegian oil history. Here's one of the really big actors in Norwegian oil history, the National Association of Oil Industries, with and pay the whole series. When heavy players are involved in paying the series – and it may be true that they have no direct control over the content of the series – people who know about it can be asked questions about it. It is also a problem in the sense that these are actors who have great power in Norwegian society and who should therefore be thoroughly examined, so that we get a story and a series that presents this whole proud story in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e2185	I think there is a common interest in the questioner and I that it is not the economic interests that will determine what is to be expressed on Norwegian screens. That's why I think we also share the view that we are very critical of opening up political television advertising, which would also open up the possibility that similar forces would have their message broadcast, while others who could not afford would not be heard. As I said, we are in full swing with a review of the legislation, but I cannot start to approve the programmes in advance or check that they are not sponsored. It has to be an ex-post check. The NRC shall not only have strict rules on advertising and sponsorship, but shall also have full editorial freedom from the owner and from political authorities. That's why we have to take care of the system we have for post-control. And then we'll see when the Media Authority might take up this matter, what the verdict is.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e2196	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘The United Nations has reacted to a large increase in the use of ADHD drugs in Norway. It is important that the Health Authority examines Norwegian practice regarding the use of ADHD medicine and looks at possible. links between the pharmaceutical industry and single doctors. A consensus conference on ADHD could be an important step forward in finding facts and consensus on the way forward. Participants should be the Ministry of Health and Welfare, the Ministry of Knowledge, researchers from domestic and foreign countries, professionals and user representatives. Will the Council of State take the initiative to hold a consensus conference on ADHD?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e2205	Kids who get the diagnosis of ADHD, and their families, must be able to trust that they get the best possible help based on good professional advice. The annual report of the United Nations Commission on Drugs for 2004 provides an overview of the use of drugs by ADHD in 20 countries. As the representative knows very well, there is a large increase in the use of drugs in the treatment of ADHD. There are also considerable variations between countries. Norway points out by being high on statistics. For example, drug consumption in Norway is 50 pst. higher than in England, and it is also four times higher than in Sweden. The United States and Iceland peak statistics — in these countries, consumption is three times as high as in Norway. National data for 2005 have probably shown a sharp increase in consumption in Norway. A 2004 SINTEF survey shows that an average of four years from ADHD is detected until diagnosis is made and that there is a lack of capacity, coordination and guidance in this area. On the basis of this survey, new prescribing rules were developed in May 2005 and the Social and Health Directorate came up with a new professional counsellor last November. The supervisor stresses that medicines for young people should never be given without psychosocial support. There may be parental guidance, school-based support measures, etc. These two measures, i.e. new rules and new guides, have strengthened the requirements for diagnosis and investigation. I expect the new requirements to tighten up the use of drugs for children and young people with ADHD. However, the rules are so fresh that they have not so far determined the statistics on consumption. Sintef has been given the task of monitoring developments over time to evaluate whether legislation and guidance are working according to their intentions. I share the view of the representative, Mr Bavøy, that we need to focus on links between the pharmaceutical industry and the doctors. In 2006 an agreement was reached between the regional health businesses and the pharmaceutical industry to ensure ethical perspectives and sound development of medical methods. I have also asked Health East to explain any links between the pharmaceutical industry and the National Centre of Competence for ADHD, Tourette's syndrome and narcolepsy, which is subject to Ullevål University Hospital HF. It appears from the statement I have received that the Centre has organised two conferences in 2003 and 2004 with the support of pharmaceutical companies manufacturing medicinal products for ADHD, and in 2005 the Head of the Centre received four lecture fees from one of these companies. Ullevål University Hospital states that all the interactions between the hospital and the pharmaceutical industry are now intensified from the turn of the year. I'm glad. I want to clarify this to all regional health businesses. Furthermore, I can inform you that the Swedish Medical Products Agency is closely following international assessments and provides ongoing advice to Norwegian doctors. I also want to get a more detailed overview of why Norway uses four times as many drugs as Sweden for children and young people with ADHD. I have therefore asked the Social and Health Directorate to contact the Swedish professional authorities about this issue. As the Minister of Knowledge has previously stated in relation to another issue of troubled class environments and ADHD, the Directorate of Education will prepare a report on cross-disciplinary and administrative work. The report shall be delivered by 15 April of this year. Like the representative Davøy, I'm very concerned about the increasing consumption of drugs for kids with ADHD. I will follow developments in this area carefully. I will consider further follow-up when I have taken part in the report of the Education Directorate and the Social and Health Directorate's assessment of the situation in Sweden. A consensus conference, as the representative Davøy suggests, will be among the actions I want to assess. I will also come back to Stortinget with a briefing on the matter during the current year.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e2226	I have to say I am very pleased with the answer that the Council of State here comes with. Some initiatives have already been taken. I also agree that some changes in the rules are relatively new. What is important is that children and young people who need medicine should, of course, get it in cases where this is therapeutic for them. I am equally fully concerned that over the past few weeks, a number of enquiries have been made by individuals and organisations that are moving towards the fact that many people believe that medical treatment is being initiated too lightly. I am pleased that a consensus conference will be one of the measures that the Council of State might want to come back to. Is the Council of State confident that what she has now started will be sufficient to ensure that the development of drugs in Norway continues to be safe?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e2237	As I said in my previous answer, I am personally going to follow this very carefully. I have taken the measures that I have taken per year. Now believes that it is necessary to check why we are higher than Sweden, and to check whether the new rules and the supervisor are being followed up. Of course, that's what the representative Davøy says, that those who need drugs will get it. It was just supposed to be missing. But it shouldn't be an easy solution. In addition to medication, where necessary and appropriate, other measures need to be taken. I want to make sure that this happens in the future. I feel confident that those who are able to follow up on this completely concretely do so. However, if this does not prove to be sufficient, it is clear that I am prepared to take other measures as well. I'll keep Stortinget continuously orientated.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e2246	A little about consensus conferences: it has been used several times if a review is needed, for example: by different methods of child protection, at the latest with regard to the institutional treatment of young people with major behavioural problems, often with incipient drug use and crime problems. As perhaps the Council of State is aware, five new institutions are starting up in this area with new treatment methods following a consensus conference on what works and what treatment should be given. It's going to be a completely different and more therapeutic approach than what you've had in the past. I just want to ask the Council of State if she can imagine, unless she has already done so, to look at the kind of consensus conferences that were held a few years ago, and which I think will actually revolutionize a lot of the institutional treatment within the field of child protection. Many of the methods might also be interesting in other contexts.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e2253	Yes, I can assure the representative Davøy that I will, of course, seriously assess the consensus conference. I see that it has had an impact in other areas, and this is an area where it is important that, as far as possible, there is a professional consensus, that one speaks through what is right, and that one is confident that it will also be followed. So the answer is, as I've also said before, that this is something I'll seriously consider. I think the proposal is good.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e2264	I will be allowed to ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘During an interpellation between the signatories of the United Kingdom on 11 April last year, where the theme was COLS, and the issue of whether the Council of State would take the initiative to develop a national strategy for the diagnosis, research and treatment of COLS, the Council of State replied: ‘It may therefore be appropriate that this be done in the form of an overall national strategy. I will launch such a national strategy.’ I therefore ask to know when such a plan may be in place, and whether the Stortinge will have the opportunity to treat it in full?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e2273	I agree that there is a need for a better coordinated and more targeted response to COLS. This is one of the major public diseases, and having good prevention, early diagnosis and systematic follow-up helps prevent and delay disease development, and both are important. The National Institute of Public Health suggests that about 200,000 people in Norway today have mild, moderate or severe COPD. It is estimated that the number will increase in the years to come. Living with COLS is a life of long-term reduced lung function and quality of life. It is, as the questioner is very well known, a chronic disease that gradually worsens, and the plagues depend on how far the disease has evolved. The reason most people get COLS is as well-known as tobacco smoking, but for some it's also genetically dependent. The main prevention measure is therefore to help the individual stop smoking. The decision maker has an important role to play in this work. Even for patients who have already been diagnosed, the end of smoking will contribute significantly to delaying disease progression. Worsening can also be slowed down by early diagnosis of the disease, developing good systems for monitoring disease development and adapting treatment to individual patients. All of this will be essential elements of a national strategy for the prevention, research and treatment of COPD, now under development. I stress that the ministry's work on the COLS strategy is to be done in good dialogue with the Stortinget. Therefore, it is briefed on the work both in St.prp. No 1 for 2005-2006 and in St.prp. No 1 Appendix No 1 for 2005-2006. The work on this strategy will also be dealt with in the revised 2006 national budget, cf. the answer to question No. 478 for written reply dated 1 March 2006. For me, it is important that this work is put into an overall framework for health policy. The Government, as you know, will be receiving a national health plan every four years. The national health plan will be presented for the first time in the context of the 2007 state budget. In this regard, I would like to present to the Stortinget the main points of a national COLS strategy.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e2286	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I'm familiar with what has been mentioned both in St.prp. No 1 and in other contexts. What's the problem is that things take time. The question is whether something can be done before the 2007 state budget, which is far ahead, especially in policy, with which the Council of State is very well aware. I wonder whether the Council of State will ensure that a partial strategy can be put in place so that we can start action. For the longer it goes before you discover, among other things. the persons at risk, the more likely they are to develop a more serious COLS if they do not start with, inter alia. medical treatment. My question to the Council of State is then: can we expect, for example, that we will be able to do so? in the revised national budget, which will be discussed next time, at least some measures can be put in place to ensure that we, among other things. can spirometric studies be conducted in doctors to detect people with COPD?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e2297	In the revised national budget, I have stated that the Government will bring what we have done. I fully agree with the representative that action is urgent here. Many people are sick, and many are sick without knowing what they are really sick of, to say it that way. This is also why the current Social and Health Directorate’s campaign to attract more attention to COLS is an important contribution. Feedbacks to me and the department at least indicate that many have noticed it, and that more people are looking for a doctor and are aware of the symptoms involved. Of course, we should continue to work to increase our attention. So the answer is that the government is making up for what we have so far in the revised national budget, but we're not going to be able to come up with the whole strategy until next year's state budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e2306	With regard to what I ask the Council of State to do, I fully understand that one cannot present the whole plan already revised, but that we can get a part of this going, that is, some measures that are very important. It is strange that in Norway, we do not follow the international guidelines on treatment, including those relating to treatment. in the case of reimbursement of certain medicinal products. I would also like to ask that it be focused on it, including: what to do with the use of Spiriva. But it's more of a single medicine that I hope can be backed up by the national strategy. My question to the Council of State is whether she will at least take an initiative towards the Directorate, so that a circular can be sent out to the decision-makers that as much as possible. use of spirometry, i.e. breath tests, in patients at risk, so that as much as possible disposal of this disease can initiate measures so that they do not develop it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e2315	Let me first say that in the case of medicines, this is something I, as Minister of Health and Government, am also concerned about. In the overall strategy I mentioned, I suggest that we also have to have a review of it. We have to make sure that those who need drugs get the right medicine. There has also been some of the issues that the questioner is well aware of, that in some cases you have received the wrong medicine. More information has now been provided to the decision-makers on what to check for symptoms, what to investigate, etc. But I can assure the asker that I would like to take a new round to check that all this is being followed up, so that the doctors are well informed about what should be checked, and what should be investigated, if you suspect COLS.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e2326	I would like to ask the Minister of Health: «Many with life-threatening diseases are in line today because they need transplanted organs. In 2005, 25 people died in the Rikshospitalet while on the waiting list. The Foundation Organ Donation believes that it is too bad practice to predict current donors/their closest if they will help save lives by donating organs after any death. What does the Council of State think can be done to improve health care practices in this area, and what other measures can improve access to organs to transplants?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e2335	Like the questioner, this is a matter I'm also very concerned about. Of course, it's about saving human lives, or giving sick people new opportunities for a worthwhile life. The waiting lists for organ transplants, i.e. kidneys, liver, pancreas, lungs and heart, are increasing worldwide, including in Norway. Fortunately, we are far ahead in this field, both because the Rikshospitalet began with transplants already in 1969, and because the use of living kidney donors, that is. close relatives or spouses are established practices in Norway. This has meant that we do not have as many dialysis patients as the countries it is natural to compare with. But it's important to keep the waiting lists down, as the questioner is about, and it's important to offer transplants to as many as possible of those who need it. A new body can give a new life to many people with organ failure, and it is also a good social economy. As the questioner is aware, the Soria Moria Government has underlined that we want to strengthen efforts to increase the number of donors. As I see it, there are two main areas that need to be given increased attention in the future. One is information to the population about the possibility of donating organs, and the organisation of organ donation in donor hospitals. I refer in this context to the Foundation Organ Donation, which carries out a significant information work for the people and the media. As you know, the Foundation has produced a brochure with a donor card distributed to all the country's pharmacy. This Foundation receives grants for information work from the Ministry of Health and Welfare. On behalf of the Ministry, a working group in the Social and Health Directorate was set up in 2004 to assess the establishment of a donor register or other measures to increase access to organs for transplantation. The Foundation Organ Donation was also represented in this group. This working group did not recommend a central donor register in Norway. The reason was that none of the countries in Europe that have such a register has more access to transplant organs than Norway has. The Ministry then joined this recommendation. However, the working group recommended several other measures to increase access to organs to transplants. Several of the recommendations are in place. Last year a national organ donation coordinator was appointed in the Directorate for Social and Health. This person is responsible for ensuring the attention around organ donation in all 28 hospitals authorised for organ donation. In the order document for the current year, the Ministry has clarified that all donor hospitals in Norway should have appointed a donor doctor – we are not yet in the target – and that the functional description is anchored in the company’s management document. Furthermore, it is clarified that health professionals are required to address organ donation issues in all relevant cases. But if we are to succeed in giving as many as possible of those who need it, a new body in time, regional health companies must follow up their responsibilities, and that is why it is very recent on my part. I would also like to ask regional health companies to report on the status of donor doctors in donor hospitals, and whether these are anchored in corporate governance documents, as the ministry has actually foreseen. Other measures recommended by the working group are, as you know, grants to the Foundation Organ Donation, which one wants to increase, strengthening the training programme for donor hospitals and financing organ donation in hospitals. These are proposals that I would like to look into in the future. I also consider several other measures in this important area.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e2361	Thank you for a good answer! What I think is the problem yet, is that an excessive proportion say no when they are asked to be donors in a stressed situation. Well, it's the closest one in the case. That's why I think it's important that everyone at a different time in life than in dramatic circumstances gets information and maybe also questions about them in a given situation, i.e. after brain death could be donors. As it is now, it becomes the closest that in difficult situations must take a stand for this, too, when there are many other loads. What I'm asking is, if you were to address us all about donation at another stage in adult life, if we should use the fixed medical system to implement a system for this. I wonder if the Council of State would like to put in place measures of this kind, for example. through the fixed medical system, in order to inform all of us better and thus increase the basic breakdown of being able to act as donors.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e2370	I accept all the good suggestions in the work we are now in the middle of, on how to do this better. I also fully agree with the questioner that it is very important to decide on this at a different time than when you are in a dramatic situation, as the questioner says, because things are much more difficult. Obviously, these are difficult things to talk about, even in a close family. I accept all the good suggestions. I would also like to assess what the representative of Bohemia is dealing with here. We will also look at the EU electronic health card if it can be used in the matter of organ donation. It is now being tested in several countries. The EU must first analyse this map, but it is also one of the things that we assess whether we can use here to land, to give an example.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e2377	There was one thing I would also mention: when one will eventually remove the queues of people waiting for transplants, it is also important to look at the possibility within new technology. One of these possibilities is xenotransplantation, i.e. the putting into service of tissues and organs of certain animal species which can be adapted to the human body. There is still a lot of research here because there are issues about rejection and about viruses, but the possibility is there. I understood that the previous government was considering abolishing this ban on xenotransplantation, so that one could go further in the work on this possibility. I would like to ask whether the Council of State is also prepared to follow up this development, and possibly other technological innovations that can help us to remove the organ queue.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e2384	With regard to the specific question of xenotransplantation, there is something the Government is also concerned about, and that the Storting will be treated if not for too long. It's also true, as the representative Bøhler here says, that it's at a very early stage. The government is busy using the technology. If we can help people that way, it's basically positive. Then a test within a certain framework has to find the limitations that are necessary, so that it does not become unlimited in all areas, but that we have control and control over this. Xeno transplantation is something we come back to Stortinget with if not too long.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e2391	We're going back to question 20.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e2398	This question, from Robert Eriksson's representative to the Minister for Labour and Inclusion, has been transferred to the Minister for Renewal and Administration, who is directly responsible.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e2403	I allow myself to ask the Council of State the following questions: ‘In KLP Paper No: In 2006, the ‘pension gap’ is indicated for workers working less than 14 hours per year. weeks in the public sector. They are not members of a public pension fund nor are they granted access to a compulsory occupational pension valid only in the private sector. The group includes, inter alia: many who are involuntarily engaged in small part-time jobs and who also lose access to the same pension entitlements as other employees. Will the Council of State ensure that the group can earn supplementary pension rights?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e2412	As the president pointed out, the question raised by the representative Eriksson was addressed to the Minister of Labour and Inclusion, but when the service pension scheme in the state is under my department, I would like to answer the question. The representative Eriksson points out that a worker in the public sector has less than 14 hours per year. week is not entitled to public service pension. This results from the State Pension Fund Act and also from the municipal sector. The new compulsory private sector service pension scheme gives workers more than 7 hours a week the right to a compulsory service pension. There is therefore a difference between pension rights in the public and private sectors, which I agree with Eriksson's representative is unfortunate. The reason for this is that the private sector has a net scheme, while the public sector has a gross scheme. In the net scheme, the service pension will not be co-ordinated with the population. That is, the pension comes in full to the payment as well as the pension from the population. In the public sector, on the other hand, there is a gross scheme in which the pension is subsequently co-ordinated with the population. Workers less than 14 hours per day If they were members of e.g., they would coordinate the service pension away. Statens Pensjonskasse. At the 2000 tariffs, service staff organisations demanded that employees be provided with more than 7 hours per year. the week was to become members of the Staten Pensionkasse. That requirement was given up at the time, when it turned out that they would not be able to raise the total amount of the pension by becoming members of the scheme. In the state sector, there are about 4,300 employees who have between 7 and 14 hours per year. week. In the municipal sector, there's probably more, but I can't even say it. Now we are looking at the entire pension system through the follow-up to the pension agreement, as the Stortinget decided last year. Public service pensions are also included in noise peskeia. I would say it would be natural to include this issue in the work of my department, among others. The Ministry of Labour and Inclusion now deals with plans, to see if this ratio will be different for changes in public service pensions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e2427	According to the same article in the KLP newspaper, there are special staff in housing services for people with mental retardation, staff at the elderly centres, etc. Which is being hit by this. According to the figures I have received from the KS – and then Oslo is the municipality and the teachers excluded – there are 44 000 employees. Does the Council of State consider this to be a significant problem, and can the Council of State be more specific about what possible solutions she sees?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e2434	It's a problem for them. Nearly the same number of people, there's a problem for those in debt, that they don't get pension initiation. So that's where I'll definitely join the representative's vision. But, as I said, when it comes to public service pensions, the problem is that if one was a member and in work over 7 hours per. week, it would be co-ordinated away with popular fear. If you were a member, you would not get an increase in the total amount of your pension. But that can change as we go through the entire pension system, including public service pensions. Then we have to look again at whether those who are between seven and 14 hours will have a gain from becoming members, because then it's natural to take it up. This is also an important issue of equality, for it is usually the women who have these positions that the representative takes up. So this should also be important to ensure women. Ideally, they should be given a greater position, but in many turns it is difficult to achieve, and then it will also be important to ensure the pension rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e2441	The government has also said in various media that there are significant challenges to including both disabled and disabled people in the workplace. Many of them have a working reserve of less than 40 pst. When the Government and the Council of State are going to sit down and look at the new rules, is it to understand that the Council of State can signal that it wants to go through the rules of coordination, so that individuals are more likely to retain their earned pension, that this group too will get better out, and that the public and private sectors will be equalised?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e2448	Now I'm in danger of entering into what's the Minister of Labour and Inclusion's area, and I'll take care of that, but when it comes to what was in the pension agreement last year in the Stortinget – now neither the representative Grande Røys nor the representative Eriksson was involved in it – it was, regardless of what was on the basis of it, to give strengthened labour incentives. At least we were very busy giving labour incentives to those who have the lowest wages, and to those who have part-time jobs, because it's those who have a reserve that we want to use in the workplace. All in all, I also believe that it is for all parties to work on the pension agreement, and that the model and the ignition give incentives to work, it is as much as people can do. As I said, we're going to see if those who are now under 14 hours, i.e. if you're going to make changes in public service pensions for those under 14 hours, will benefit from being part of a pension scheme. It's quite obvious that we have to look at it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e2455	Then we go to question 29.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e2462	I have a question for the Minister of Renewal and Administration. The question is as follows: ‘The public acquisition complaint has an important role to play. [[KOFA]] Because many complaints have been mentioned, the handling time has been very long. This, in turn, has meant that the companies do not complain, even if they believe that there are grounds for complaint. Does the Council of State mean that the long processing period affects competition, and what will the Council of State do to enable the KOFA to complete its task?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e2471	As the representative Sørfonn pointed out, the handling of the case in time in the complaint topic for public acquisitions – KOFA – has been longer. Since 2003, the number of cases has increased, and the demand for dispute resolution has increased. This has created capacity problems in the Secretariat. On the other hand, we have no indication that competition for public purchases will be weakened by the long process period. This would result in fewer suppliers supplying services to public enterprises, because they do not receive prompt answers to complaints about breaches of the legislation. So far we haven't received any feedback that that happens. Although there is no basis for believing that competition will be affected, I am busy improving the handling time in KOFA. The cases in which purchases await the conclusion of a contract are prioritised by the name of the contract. In these cases, the average processing time was 51 days. There's a slight increase from 2004. 2005 was a year of change for the subject of the complaint. From the creation of was called the administratively supported department, with offices in the government quarter. In March 2005, administrative responsibility was transferred to the Competition Authority, among others. to indicate that the name is professionally independent. The supervision’s move to Bergen resulted in a nearly full replacement of the Secretariat during 2005. From the turn of the year 2005/2006, the entire Secretariat with new entrants is established in Bergen, and the proceeds to the title for 2006 are also increased by 800 000 kroner a year. The emphasis is now on reducing the amount of time left and handling in general. Everything is right for it, both with stable crews in Bergen and with increased runs. The Ministry will then evaluate KOFA during 2006. That's where we're going. look at whether we should make further changes in order to streamline their work. Among other things, the current rules of procedure, including their competence, organisation and costs of complaints, will be assessed in the evaluation we will have during the year.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e2486	I thank the Council of State for your answer. We can choose in many ways that KOFA is about to become a victim of its own success. What's part of the problem is that of the issues that are settled, it's actually concluded that it's for 30 pst. is in breach of the Code. When we are told that several companies that actually wanted to complain left behind for the very reason that the Council of State says here, and when the name prioritizes matters where no contract has been concluded, there is a balancing issue. Now the Council of State was fairly concrete and put forward a number of measures to improve the situation, but I still think there is a little uncertainty here. It means increasing the permissions, but will it also be done to make the threshold higher, so that it becomes harder to complain, or will the door be equal to the KOFA?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e2495	We're doing several things on a variety of levels in relation to public procurement. When it comes to the legislation itself, we have, in order to make the legislation simpler – and the previous government too – raised the threshold for purchases covered by supply. It has been important, because very many of the crimes that have happened have caused the legislation to be too difficult. One doesn't want to break the code, but has been hurt to break it. We have made the legislation simpler and now operate a comprehensive job of guiding public buyers. It also does KS. I'm going to put forward an odelstation proposal to the Committee in which the representative Sørfonn sits, in a month's time. There, I will also consider sanctions against breaches of municipal procurement. Then the representative is wondering if we should look at the fee to complain. Are we getting too many complaints in large and small? It's also part of what I want to evaluate in the evaluation.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e2504	This is a very important theme, because trust and trust in public procurement are absolutely crucial for the public sector as a whole. Unfortunately, in recent times it has also revealed a number of cases that have not been so good – camaraderie and, what to say, ungrateful procurement. The fact that a person then has this possibility to complain about a name if he is unsure gives security and helps to make trust and trust better for that sector. We now also have in the committee a matter of publishing purchases below the threshold, but I will not take it any further. But could the Council of State be a little more specific when it comes to what time the waiting time will be no more? You know, there was a little bit of the first answer, but could the Council of State be a little bit more specific?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e2511	I do not know if I can promise to close the waiting period, because it is clear that one here received a lot of complaints. Should a processing time be cancelled, it means either that an unreceived complaint, or that absolutely all public purchasers do not do anything wrong. Of course, it's hard for the Council of State to say. But I believe in the measures we have now seen. We've made the code easier. It was a follow-up to the Bondevik government's proposals. We have also introduced protocol obligations for municipalities for all purchases over NOK 100000, where they have to prove purchases in order to make them visible to them, so that one can try to avoid debts of corruption and camaraderie, which I am as busy as the representative of Sørfonn. We have also done other things when it comes to making legislation simpler. Guide is important. It's working with both the KS and the Department, so people will understand the code they're actually going to handle. As I said, considering the introduction of sanctions against direct breaches of the legislation, I believe I will clean up the area.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e2522	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Fisheries and Coast: ‘This year, on 7 March, it is said that the new district quota is already ‘used up’ before the legislation is ready. Will the Council of State ensure that the legislation is ready quickly and that actors in all parts of the country will be able to compete with and compete for parts of the quota?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e2531	The government will facilitate a fishing fleet that contributes to activity and employment across the coast and that can ensure stable supply of raw materials to industry throughout the year. As part of this, we need to strengthen the district quota system and make more active use of it. This year we have set a quantity of 3 500 tonnes of cod in the large coastal fleet and cod trawls to the district quota system. In the ministry, work is now under way to develop criteria for the vessels to be included in the scheme and for the areas or enterprises to be eligible for the regional quota. The county council shall have a role in this respect by offering regional authorities to allocate the rural quota landings to those areas and establishments which need that type of instrument for a shorter or longer period of time. We have not yet taken a decision on how this should be done in concrete terms, and here I have, among other things. requested input from counties. When we have a clear proposal, it will be sent to the consultation before setting criteria for the allocation and use of the scheme. Of course, none of the quantities contained in the district quota have been disposed of or ‘used up’ in any way before the criteria have been proposed, heard and finally established! Moreover, I refer to the Soria Moria Declaration which states that vessels in all parts of the country wishing to deliver fish under the district quota system should be treated equally.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e2544	I want to thank you for your answer. I record that vessels are to be able to participate in all parts of the country. But what's very interesting -- I don't expect the Council to be able to answer in detail -- is that it's a little important to get rid of some of the insecurity that's lying there. Now we have come a long way in March, and the question is: Will installations in the whole country also have the possibility of sharing in the deliveries to be made? The Council of State said in its first answer that, following the Soria Moria Declaration, regional authorities – or the county municipality, as she said – will be offered to distribute these landings. Can we literally interpret that there are regional authorities that should be able to do this? Will everyone along the coast have the possibility to be on it? This is not only important for vessels. It is equally important for the agricultural industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e2551	I fully share Mr Løvik's emphasis that this is important for the rural industry. It is such that the district quota system is not pre-determined for any part of the country. In terms of the criteria for picking out the areas or companies to be taken out, we are now working on it in the department. We haven't set any geographic restrictions on the scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e2558	I would like to thank you again for your answer. Another question that has not been answered in connection with the district allowances is not just who is to be included in this, but who is to give up deliveries? Because I'm assuming that it's not about corks getting more fish or increasing the quotas, so what's going on is going to have to happen within something. And since this is going to go to areas and activities that need special tools for a short or longer time, it's a danger that it's the profitable, good companies that have to give up quotas to those companies that don't do very well. This may have an impact on future structure, and it is not particularly important to stimulate profitable operation. How will the Council of State comment on this?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e2565	Now it is the case that for 2006 we have set a very modest quantity to the district quota system – that is 3.5 pst. of the large coastal group and the cod trawl fleet. The district quota quantity is set to that group, and it will also be fished out by that group, of course. In terms of profitability and structure, I believe that it is a matter of course that the quantity set aside under the district quota scheme should, of course, go to companies that run profitablely. We should not subsidize companies that are on the brink of bankruptcy. But as the look-up in the Fishery magazine shows very clearly, many of the places along the coast and several of the businesses are struggling to get hold of raw materials. It is not possible to solve the market mechanisms alone and it is this district quota system that should help.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-15.ana.ud2137e2572	Does anyone ask to speak in accordance with Section 37a of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
