ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-12-2.ana.ud1029e30	The aim of the proposal under consideration is to provide simpler rules and better conditions for small limited liability companies. What we actually want to contribute to is fill up the toolbox that Odd Eriksen wants to be full of tools. Now I've seen that it's more changed to become a jewelry box, but if we can contribute some jewelry, we'll do it too. The Judicial Committee has examined the proposal and wishes to attach that protocol, although there are positive comments on some of the proposals in the vote; Why, then, do we, who have promoted the proposal, want to make it easier for small limited liability companies? – First of all, many people want to try out a good business idea, and perhaps today they are stopped by the capital requirement of today’s legislation. They should be given a new opportunity. So we know that if we are to follow in global development, we need entrepreneurs who are willing to bet. I think that the government in its answer could have met something more than the formal light – I must say – contained in the reply letter from the Minister of Justice. So we want to look at the share capital. We want to set a price on the actual costs of registration in Brønnøysund. We want to see if it's possible to have a simplified reporting obligation to see if any claims can actually be eliminated. Many small businesses spend more time on administration than they should, instead of initiating their good ideas and developing their business opportunities. We also want to see if the number of smaller enterprises that currently pay VAT only once a year can be expanded to make it easier for more people. We also want to see if it can make it easier for primary industries to set up and operate a limited liability company. Several have also been involved in the establishment of companies abroad. It is also in order to justify such a development that the proposal is on the table today. Finally, I have to say from the Christian People's Party to the case rapporteur, who had the floor before today and said that there should be some kind of insinuation in our proposal that women should have more difficulty getting into the legislation than men, that I think she should take it with great care. There is nothing in the proposal that indicates that. What I could agree with, on the other hand, is that we should not ignore the fact that women are more conscientious in complying with the legislation than men, and in that way perhaps could deserve a more simplified legislation than is the case today. I hope, despite the fact that the proposal is annexed to the Minutes, that something can be followed up in what is in the Legal Affairs Committee's comment, and which comes in various legislative proposals subsequently.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-12-2.ana.ud1029e47	In the literature, you sometimes go out on re-enlarged paths. For my part, I feel that I am going on uphill paths when this matter is here today. I have a reflection that the whole dossier bears the mark. If you're going to help small and medium-sized enterprises, you can't start the logical thinking based on the company light. You have to start thinking from the point of view of the world. And so it had to be that those who think from the standpoint of the world have a happy meeting with those who think from the point of view. I think that the committee has very strongly drawn the contrast that exists when it operates with the Norwegian companies that can be registered abroad, and that can thus crawl below almost any threshold in Norway. Then we are in Norway to follow the EEA and EU-inspired legislation, and feel that we have difficulty doing what many of us feel is right. I need to say it that way, because I think when you're going to do what the majority says – and as the whole committee says – you have to follow this up, you have to let these two worlds meet in a very serious way for both worlds. The company light, and the resulting things, has to go a lot heavier and deeper into the world that exists, as I think the proposers have mentioned, and as the representative Syversen went through both when it came to wanting to make simpler registrations, lower fees in Brønnøysund, look at the capital requirement for some reports and look at the number of VAT payments. At this point, I would almost believe that there was a broad consensus in Norwegian policy, and that the small companies that create jobs for themselves and others would be given the best possible chance. I'm not going to draw the debate any further than to make these brief thoughts about such a meeting. As I myself have a bit of experience with some such encounters both inside my head and around me, I feel that I need to say that – not to anyone, but to everyone. The next time such a matter comes up, it is possible to look at the practicality of the situation in the world. What are the real obstacles to people in the practical world? It makes a certain impression to me that those who are called to the hearing in the committee say that this is good, this is good, and this makes sense. It's not always people who are invited to hearings, talking like that. I've been up to several where opinions are shared. I believe that everyone who participates in this debate, whether they belong to the majority or the minority in the vote, should take a heavy step forward when they deal with the issues involved in the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-12-2.ana.ud1029e58	I am very much in agreement with the representative of Dørum now saying that when assessing this type of initiative and this type of action, we should not commit ourselves to company law as a starting point. Our challenge, and the problem, is that this is what the proposal is doing. The proposal is largely influenced by the fact that it is based on company law. That is why I should like to say that it is not difficult to agree with the objective set out in document No. The 8 proposal that we are now considering, on a simpler and more appropriate legislation for traders. We politicians often call for our legislative and regulatory work to be as simple as possible to deal with for users. However, this case illustrates in my opinion that the question of what is a single legislation does not necessarily have a clear and clear answer. I allow myself to say that I have run a small share company, so I know pretty much what I'm talking about, and have also often annoyed myself about both forms and their likes, but at the same time have seen the need for a different approach to the kind of challenges we're actually facing here. I believe that introducing a separate form of limited liability company, which is actually done in this Document No. The 8 proposal, for so-called small limited liability companies with regulation in their own law and with their own legal texts, will not imply any simplification. This will help to make the law as such more unwieldy – several of the representatives have been involved in earlier today. For traders, it would also be difficult to deal with three different types of companies with different regulations. Of those countries with which it may be natural to compare, I do not know anyone where there are three types of limited liability companies. Nor do I have any faith that there will be any particular degree of simplification in terms of content, simply by adapting a separate share law to such small circumstances. Should you design a law that was considerably shorter than, for example, today's stock law, if it were to be a goal, one had to omit a number of rules that provide answers to questions that could arise whether the company is large or small – I would have almost said, especially when it is small – or one had to abandon rules that involve an offer or freedom of action for the companies, not a ban or an obligation. On the issue of simplification, it must be clear that the Share Act is a private law governing the relationship between private operators, and of which private operators also benefit to a large extent, especially when it focuses on it. With regard to the emergence of so-called NUFs, which is an abbreviation for the term ‘Norwegian registered non-resident enterprises’, I agree that this could address regulatory challenges. The trend in the EU appears to be moving towards somewhat more liberal rules on the protection of company capital. However, I believe that, with regard to the general regulation of the Shares Act and the General Shares Act, we should wait for further developments in the EU to see how the EU wants to design its Community legislation in this area. With regard to other industrial legislation, it is possible to introduce simpler rules in this legislation for small enterprises without introducing a separate company law for small companies. That's where I think we all have something to pick up – and can fill up the toolbox and what it might be of alternatives. The issue of a separate share law for small companies and the issue of whether there should otherwise be less restrictive rules for small enterprises has little to do with each other. In this context, there may be grounds for recalling that industrial legislation is directed primarily at the activities carried out, not at the type of company in which it is organised. This means that the type of company used is irrelevant to the extent to which the rules apply. The simplification measures desired, in particular perhaps in relation to small businesses, should have a much larger scope than simply linking to the form of a limited liability company, perhaps especially in view of the work now being done by the Government to create a new law on cooperatives. We hope that we can present it to the Greatness of the harvest, and it will also, in the light of European experience, make valuable contributions to how to organise small businesses in a much simpler way. I have noticed that the committee wants to assess whether there may be reason to remove the second sentence of Section 6-14 of the Share Act, which states that if the company does not have the Executive Director, the Chairman of the Board of Directors is responsible for the day-to-day management of the company. This implies that small companies which are not obliged under Section 6-2 of the Act to have the Executive Director must nevertheless have a kind of Executive Director, with the consequences it has for reporting, etc. to the Governing Board. I think it's a good idea to consider such a change. The Committee asks the Ministry to consider the audit obligation for small enterprises. This question has already been put on the agenda by the Government. The Ministry of Finance aims at setting up a sample to look at this issue. The Ministry of Finance also looks at the issue of duty obligations in other tax legislation, which could have a wider scope than the proposals put forward by the proposers. I have noticed that the minority of the Committee believes that support for the conclusion in Document No. The 8 proposal will lead to a simpler everyday life for small entrepreneurs. However, the minority does not say anything about how to assess or address the objections actually raised to the proposal. It is quite easy to demand that legislation meet a specific objective when it is possible to close the eyes of such objections raised by the majority of committees. We are all concerned that we should have the most appropriate legislation for business. However, an approach to this, which is based on a separate company law for small companies, is not, in my view, a recipe that will lead us to the goal.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-12-2.ana.ud1029e79	The President has recorded that all parties have had their main posts and will propose that the speakers who will be given the floor be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-12-2.ana.ud1029e84	Thank you very much for that! I understood from the Minister of Industry that the toolbox has now been replaced with a jewelry box, but at the Minister of Justice it seems that there may still be some confusion at that point. The main reason for this is that there are 200,000 enterprises in Norway with five or fewer employees. It shows that Norwegian business is dominated by small businesses, and a large proportion of them are family-owned. A forward-looking industrial policy will stimulate entrepreneurial activity, provide good, stable framework conditions for existing enterprises and result in increased employment, growth and value added for the country, thus also contributing to ensuring public and private well-being. I'm disappointed in the government parties. They talk nice about small businesses. They realise that today’s legislation is not optimal – like the Council of State – but they do not see the need to identify any improvements. This is what is at the heart of the matter: a simplified regulatory framework for small limited liability companies will have a positive impact on value creation and welfare, leading to an increase in the level of spin-off and start-up of new enterprises and an increase in the incentive for entrepreneurs to be able to move from idea to enterprise. It is problematic that many people see it as much easier to be employed than to be self-employed. When one sees that 160,000 self-employed persons and members of partnerships have no social rights in the case of unemployment, leave of absence, closure of the enterprise, care of sick children or whose childcare staff are ill, they also have no entitlement to sickness benefits from social security until after 16 days of absence, and then only 65 pst. on the grounds of sickness benefit — it is easy to see that many potential entrepreneurs are reluctant. Improved opportunities for the creation of a limited liability company mean that more people with creativity and progress will have a safer base for taking on the work and responsibility of starting and running a company. This is because shareholders who work in a limited liability company receive wages and are entitled to social benefits in line with other employees. Simplification of the law on small limited liability companies will result in the establishment of several limited liability companies and will contribute to strengthening the basis for value creation. Several entrepreneurs will dry up to start. Individual and partnerships that choose to transform into limited liability companies will face lower personal risks and will thus also be given increased incentives to expand and create new jobs. I'm amazed at the government's loss. It will not cost it anything to discuss the proposal from an overall opposition, but when the Government has increased the tax by DKK 10.7 billion in relation to the Centre-Right Government's 2006 budget proposal, it is clear that business start-ups and business incentives are not on the agenda. Then there is little point in referring to the very joyful figures for company start-ups that the case-rapporteur did. They are a product of the continuous improvement of the business environment in general by the previous government.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-12-2.ana.ud1029e101	A simpler everyday life unless form fields are at the top of the requirements list by many business managers. This is particularly true for those who operate small. The profit for these businesses and for society as a whole would have been great if it had been so that more of the legislation had been put up just to suit the situation of the small and very small enterprises, and which had it as a starting point. This is therefore very positive, and I would like to pay tribute to the proposers who have contributed to the fact that the Justice Committee and the Stortinget have put this issue on the agenda. This is a very important debate. We know that small and very small companies form a crucial part of the business structure in Norway. Here we can't afford to fail. There has been some tough use of words in this debate. There's no reason to believe that. It is no more than eight months since this total opposition seas were put in government and had all the opportunities in the world to implement the same proposals. Furthermore, it is to say that the proposals that are being promoted are not rejected either. At least that's not my reality. On the contrary, the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights signals that a number of elements of these proposals will be introduced for further follow-up. The center party would have been part of this majority if we had been on the committee. We will actively follow up on the positive signals both the Committee and the Minister of Justice have given in this debate. I see this as constructive. I see it on many points as appropriate, and I do not see it as if this debate in any way signals that we are pursuing a somewhat attractive business policy. The central party considers that simplification of the legislation is important and that this applies to all small companies irrespective of their corporate form. We have had enough regulatory changes that are most beneficial to a limited liability company, which has led to many personally owned companies being converted into AS. Here it is enough to mention the tax reform, which gave the greatest benefits to limited liability companies. I also find it urgent to introduce exceptions in a number of laws and regulations for small companies, in line with what we have had in our neighbouring country, and I believe that this must be continuously worked on, regardless of any revision of the Share Act. So this is finally about the attitudes of everyday life to everyone from the public who meets the business community, whether you have your place in the Stortinget, in the departments or in a municipality. The public sector must be flexible and the public sector must be strengthened so that a much more frequent answer can be yes. It's going to take care of this government.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-12-2.ana.ud1029e114	I understand in the previous speaker that the centre party is more positive about this proposal than the vote expresses. For an intransigent reader of the position — it is possible that Norwegian businesses, and especially small businesses, are sometimes negligent — this proposal, which is about practical realities in business, meets with many sides in the reply of the Minister of Justice and with the problem of increasing bureaucracy. In particular, the Minister of Justice spends a lot of time in his reply to the Committee, and also here today, talking about the problems of having three classes of companies. In fact, I don't think that's the Norwegian business where they're sitting out in their daily dont. They may have to count to three to find out where to register when they do, but once they're running, it's of course an advantage that you have a better code to deal with. I have to say that it is paradoxical that a government that says it has a focus on active industrial policy, does not take advantage of an opportunity like this to go into the practical realities. Actually, I took the floor to note a passage that the Minister of Justice has in his reply to the Committee, where he concerns the Ministry of Finance, and says that they do some things. That's right. There's a case at the hearing. Among other things, there is a consultation note from the Ministry of Finance that goes on some of the elements of the proposal here, namely this with changed deadlines for VAT payments. It is proposed in the consultation note to move on to the summer vacation term, which is very difficult for many accountants, which are, of course, those who often have small businesses. It's going to be moved from August 10th and a little bit to the outside, even if there's a little bit of a wealth of this. However, on the other hand, and much, much more important, it is also suggested in the consultation note that one should move on to the first term for the payment of a deferred tax on limited liability companies. That means moving it so far that the companies have not submitted the declaration. Yes, a good part of them don't know if they've earned or lost money. It has a proceeds of 200 million. kr for Norwegian business.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-12-2.ana.ud1029e123	The government and government's attitude in this matter is disappointing, not only for us who want to give better framework conditions to business, but it is disappointing to leaders in everyday businesses, who clearly want a simplified reporting obligation, and who think it would be a good step if the ceiling for reporting VAT was reduced to just once a year. It is also disappointing for all young people who consider to start their own business, but the share capital requirement of NOK 100000 stands out as an unsurpassed obstacle, and the costs of logging into the Brønn Island Health Register stand out as a very difficult gate to get through. We are disappointed at the passive and uninterested attitude of the Government to this initiative. After all, the plural government has encouraged the opposition party to make constructive recordings. This is an example of such a constructive performance. But the response from the government and government party is unfortunately sad.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-12-2.ana.ud1029e130	I can assure you that the red-green government is busy putting in place and debating the framework conditions for business, and it is also showing this debate today. For approx. a year ago, I had an inaugural course for women in charge of Sogn and Fjordane Arbeidarparti, with 20-25 participants. The biggest bend was the problem of combining the professional career that runs with child care when they have a child online. That's what came out there. Just like that point, we've drawn with ourselves and got into the Soria Moria statement. We're starting to look at the conditions to secure entrepreneurs by establishing good social arrangements. Since we have now had a little pause since the debate took place, it is good to contact women's networks for newcomers at home. Yes, I'm sure we're on the right track right now when we're developing a purely national action plan for women entrepreneurs and creating funding schemes that specifically stimulate innovation and entrepreneurship among women. The implementation of the municipal food funds that we have also established is a good example of active industrial policy. Here the municipalities get funds that they distribute just to small entrepreneurs in their municipalities. Another example that I also used in my own country is extra funds for SIVA, Innovation Norway and research. It is a strengthening of the broad tool that benefits all the entrepreneurs. There will be important political changes in the review of the equity law and the ownership message coming to the fall. But in the kind of debate we have had today, I thought we should focus constructively and stay too good to characteristics such as 'these socialists' and 'government's true face'. This is all the time the majority of the representatives behind Document No. The 8 proposal has actually been in government for the last four years, and they could have cleaned up all of these things about it burning. When it comes to the other changes that have been proposed, for example: the use of a limited liability company in the primary industry is all possible per year. today. I have already commented on the audit obligation/reporting obligation, the simplification of the registration document and the costs of company registration and VAT payment, and these proposals cannot be viewed as rejected. The majority don't even want an equity permit. We don't think of it as a simplification, on the contrary. And the Right's hot line to the NHO has apparently gone all by itself lately, for the NHO has given express notice that they don't even want a stock law!
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-12-2.ana.ud1029e149	I just want to say that measuring the government's success in relation to industrial policy is based on whether or not this Document No. The 8's proposal or not, I think that's an incredibly bad way of doing it, really. The first is, of course, the limitation contained in the proposal itself, based on small limited liability companies. Why stop there when it comes to the changes we want to implement? Would it not be right now that we had implemented changes in business law for small companies that actually had wider fields of activity than small limited liability companies, and not lock it in a legal discussion about whether we need two or three types of companies? I think it is the proposers who are creating the derailment that is clearly coming about in such a debate. Then I have to ask for all possible respect for the fact that both in the setting and also in my post and in the letter of reply we give signals about what the Government is working on, in relation to several of the elements that the proposers also address, which are important for all small businesses, i.e. that you now want to look at the audit obligation, and that the Ministry of Finance is working on it. That must be good! The fact that the previous government did not, and did not deliver in relation to it, gets to be a historical debate, but it must be positive that the current government says yes, we take that, we work on it – already reduced. If you want to look at the provisions of Sections 6 to 14 of the General Shares Act relating to the relationship between the Board and the Executive Director, etc., you have to be positive, and not least to address on a general basis the issue of duty obligations in tax law, which may be particularly difficult compared to those in small businesses. So I want to say with all due respect that I think you should be careful to measure the success of business policy based on whether you fully support this proposal or not. In that case, it's strange if the big sesame would be how many good ideas you actually come up with, just after you get out of the government offices. So the question of e.g. share capital. It is not an obvious matter to put down here almost at a late evening meeting, for the actors who often call for simple rules are the same actors who say they need something heavy in the share capital at the moment they want to put on the ‘adorn’ it must be to be called a corporation for, among other things. obtaining creditworthiness. At the moment you throw that capital away, yes, we would get many out in business that would react to the fact that you had no capital to raise because the share capital was so low, which would exacerbate the possibility of financing small entrepreneurs, among other things. So this is not an easy solution to my terms. That's why I believe that the signals and the description of the government's work now given show that, regardless of whether you have a socialist legend or not at the bottom, we're all interested in getting a simpler code to benefit everyone – and I mean everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-12-2.ana.ud1029e159	When a number of government parties ask questions about why not the previous government has done this and hint, there might be reason to recall what the previous government had to do when it took over. It took over in a situation where we had growing unemployment, where the conditions for Norwegian business were too downward. It took quite a lot of time and a lot of money and forces to get the business policy that the Stoltenberg government then left – or had to go off to let it go – to keep it right. So the Minister of Justice says that he hopes not that the reaction of the Government and Government parties to this Document No. The 8th proposal must be the objective of the industrial policy pursued by this government. No, it might be interesting to take a business debate. What is this government really going to measure in terms of industrial policy? Is that how to exercise ownership in Statoil, is it how to reduce depreciation rates for machines in industry, or is it how to reduce research efforts in the last state budget? We would like to have a debate on industrial policy, but I also hope that we are willing to discuss what are positive proposals and positive incentives for Norwegian business.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-12-2.ana.ud1029e168	It was a remark from the Minister of Justice that made me take the floor. He says that it is the proposers who shut down the thinking behind the proposal within company legal thinking. That's not how I read the proposal. And if you were so thin that you did it, creative, intelligent people with a creative, intelligent office would release this containment and make sure that it really flourished with the creativity that would be in place in all the practical areas of life. So the truth is that what we're seeing here is that practical considerations in business policy go against legal thinking. It's an interesting excitement. It's a fertile voltage. We're going to have to take that. But I actually agree with the Minister of Justice that regardless of that tension, a series of practical measures will be taken if you have energy, strength and willingness to do so. The representative of the Syversen has referred to a series of such measures which were taken by the parties in government in the past. The initiative that has been promoted here invites us to continue this debate. I perceive at least, with great joy, the representative Borten Moe's posts as an answer to that. I also see part of the comments of the majority of the committee as an invitation to hold the pressure. And I think that pressure should be kept. Then I think you should be so tough that you keep the pressure in such a way that you give life a chance and see how the juice can be reformed to make sure that the driving force in what is the backbone of Norwegian business, small businesses, that people put their great honor in creating a job for themselves and others, gets strength and pressure. It is not always that one is inspired in one night when the heat is pressing and there is even warmer inside the staging room than outside, but the councillor Storberget managed it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-12-2.ana.ud1029e179	The Council of State is quite right when he says that it is not this case alone that forms a picture of the Government's industrial policy. But this case helps to form a picture of the business policy of the smallest companies. Trying to get the government to be a little more economical to the very smallest companies, and at least to help find out some of the opposition's proposals, had to be a first step. But when the Council of State draws up industrial policy and the positive things that have come, I really think the contribution of the representative of Syversen was very good. For depreciation rates for machines, SV was the main one. It disappeared. The tax on wealth was initially to be reduced or eliminated at all. It's going up. The $10.7 billion difference in taxes between the Centre-Right Government's last proposal and the government's proposals is striking. It does not help to improve the framework conditions for businesses – on the contrary. In addition, ownership can be withdrawn, for example: in Statoil, it shows that unfortunately this government does not control its own industrial policy. It helps to form a picture of a business policy that unfortunately helps to keep businesses busy, not to facilitate increased business start-ups, which is what we really should have discussed in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-12-2.ana.ud1029e186	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox [[See page 2677]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-12-2.ana.ud1029e204	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 2677]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-12-2.ana.ud1029e223	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 2677]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-12-2.ana.ud1029e231	The size goes to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-12-2.ana.ud1029e254	During the debate, Mr Skumsvoll put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to set up a wide-ranging Defence Commission to draw up proposals for guidelines for the development of Defence until 2020.’;» This proposal will be replaced by the Committee's vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-12-2.ana.ud1029e282	Five proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Robert Eriksson on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left Proposals No. 2 and 3, by Robert Eriksson on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentiality and Immunities 4, by Åse Gunhild Woie Duesund on behalf of the Right, Christian People's Proposal No. 5, from the Christian People's Party, during the debate is converted into a transmission proposal, and reads in amended form: ‘The Government is advised to propose a reinforced legal protection for the alerts which, inter alia, means that labour law sanctions against alerts are considered invalid unless it can be proved that the response is not justified in the alert.’; The President proposes that this proposal be forwarded to the Government without any renunciation. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2 and 3 from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-12-2.ana.ud1029e328	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 4, from the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government as soon as possible, and at the latest at the time of the 2008 State Budget, to provide a detailed assessment of how the cheap compensation scheme should be applied to oil workers who have been harmed by chemical exposure.’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-12-2.ana.ud1029e345	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 1, from the Party of Advancement, from the Right Party, from the Christian Party, and from the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for the establishment of a long-term follow-up system for vulnerable groups of workers. Follow-up should include both health provision and assistance for continued work on land where possible.’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-12-2.ana.ud1029e375	During the debate, Robert Eriksson put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to propose that the leave scheme be extended to 42 weeks and that the employer’s period of leave be reduced to 5 working days.’ This proposal will be replaced by the Committee's vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-12-2.ana.ud1029e416	The vote will take place on the proposal of Mr Kenneth Svendsen on behalf of the Progress Party, submitted by Mr Odelstinget’s meeting on 7 June 2006: ‘The Government requests the Government to promote the necessary legislative proposals for the Stortinget so that the responsibilities of the municipal social offices have been transferred from the municipality to the State and entered in the NAV offices.’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-12-2.ana.ud1029e435	The vote will take place on the proposal of Mr Kenneth Svendsen on behalf of the Progress Party, submitted by Mr Odelstinget’s meeting on 7 June 2006: ‘The decision asks the Government to make the necessary proposals to ensure the possibility of changing case handlers in cases where there is a clear need for doing so.’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-12-2.ana.ud1029e454	During the debate, Mr Nistad put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Authority asks the Government to establish a simplified code for small limited liability companies. The following elements should be included, inter alia, in an assessment to strengthen the framework conditions for small limited liability companies:Growth of share capitalRequirement of audit obligationsSimplified reporting to the boardLaveste appropriate number of VAT paymentsUse of limited liability companies in the primary industrySimplification of register documentsCost of company registration.IIThe government asks the Government to promote proposals for simplification and improvement of the law on small limited liability companies.» This proposal will be replaced by the Committee's vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-12-2.ana.ud1029e508	A vote shall be taken on the proposal by Mr Solvency Horne, on behalf of the Party for Progress and the Right, submitted by Mr Odelstinget on 7 June 2006: ‘The government is asking for the necessary legislative amendments to be made so that the municipalities can introduce rules on the expulsion of persons who are aggressively and shamefully begging, selling and prostitution.’ The Christian People's Party and the Left have announced that they want to support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-12-2.ana.ud1029e530	The vote will take place on the proposal of Mr Åse Gunhild Woie Duesund, on behalf of the Christian People's Party, submitted by Mr Odelstinget's meeting on 7 June 2006: ‘The Government asks the Government to carefully assess the need for further action to combat organised begging activities and to notify the Stortinget as soon as possible and at the latest in the context of the revised national budget 2007.’» The President assumes that the Progress Party wishes to support the proposal of the Christian People's Party, in addition to the Right and Left, which has already given its support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-12-2.ana.ud1029e582	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word under Section 37(a) of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
