ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-21.ana.ud1836e31	Honourable co-representatives! Former P.A. Kjell Magne Fredheim is dead, 78 years old. Kjell Magne Fredheim represented Hedmark and the Workers' Party at Stortinget for 21 years and 323 days. From 1965 to 1969 he was the first alternate and met at Stortinget throughout the period. He met tight from 1969 until 1989. Kjell Magne Fredheim was appointed chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee, the Church and Education Committee and the Defence Committee from 1985 to 1989. We, as Kjell Magne Fredheim, remember a colleague of the «old» school: thorough and correct in everything he did, kind and helpful, especially to new representatives. He also played a very central role in the Workers' Group as a long-standing member of the Group's Governing Board and Labour Committee. Kjell Magne Fredheim was also an engaged foreign politician. For many years he was active in the NATO Parliamentary Assembly and in the Nordic Council. One of the things we remember him best for was his burning commitment to localism and journalism. So was he, among other things. Chairman of the Support Committee for the daily newspapers from 1971 to 1993. And he was a member of the Central Emergency Department of the Government's press service in war from 1978 to 1990. After he finished at Stortinget, he rustled with his political experience as a political commentator at his old workplace, the Glåmdalen newspaper. Kjell Magne Fredheim was involved in local politics. For a period he was a member of Åsne's presidency and was rapporteur for Åsne's municipal government. He was also a member of Hedmark County from 1963 to 1967. One of the many public authorities Kjell Magne Fredheim had, he especially appreciated. That was when he was a member and head of the Nordisk Kulturfond in the period 1985 to 1993. For many years he was also the head of the National Council for the Protection of Homeland. With his determined commitment and pleasantness, Kjell Magne was Fredheim one of the people you went to when you needed help. He was truly an ombudsman for those who had chosen him. A long day's work is over. The size thank you for your efforts. We are at peace with Kjell Magne Fredheim's memory. The representatives heard the President's commemorative speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-21.ana.ud1836e59	Representatives of Torbjørn Andersen, Jan Petersen, Sverre Myrli, Eirin Faldet, Laila Davøy, Asmund Kristoffersen, Jan Arild Ellingsen, Tore Nordtun, Finn Martin Vallersnes, Gunnar Kvassheim, Lars Peder Breck, Per Ove Width and Karin Yrvin, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. An application for sick leave has been submitted by the Centre Party’s Liaison Group to the representative Inger S. Enger from 21 November until further notice. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The application shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The Vara representative, Johannes Rindal, is invited to meet during the period of leave.3. Johannes Rindal is elected to the Lamentations for the time he meets the representative of Inger S. Enger.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-21.ana.ud1836e123	Johannes Rindal is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-21.ana.ud1836e133	The representative Line Henriette Holten Hemdal will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-21.ana.ud1836e136	On behalf of the big business representative Jan Sahl and myself, I would like to put forward a proposal for a representative to strengthen efforts to develop and use biofuels in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-21.ana.ud1836e141	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-21.ana.ud1836e159	The President will draw attention to the fact that the interpellation will be answered to the Council of State Knut Storberget.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-21.ana.ud1836e162	First, I would like to thank the government council Knut Storberget for his sporty performance at such short notice, as Karita Bekkemelm has become ill. This is an interpellation that I take up because I am seriously concerned about whether the auxiliaries and the legal system have understood how harmful it is for a child to grow up with violence in the family – even when the child is not beaten up. Until recently, we have had decisions in the courts that indicate that family violence has been viewed as a single event, not as a condition in which the child is constantly affected. And I think I have evidence to claim that a lot of people in the legal and auxiliary services are not aware that children who are witnesses to the mother being subjected to violence can actually get more hurt than if they were beaten. Øyvind Ashjem from Alternative to Violence says in today's Evening Post: ‘Children growing up with family violence are no longer to be seen as witnesses but as directly exposed.’ We still hear through the media, and through direct contact to many of us here in the house, about mothers who despair because their father has been granted the right to co-occurrence despite his having mistreated and threatened her. When I was elected to the Stortinget in 2001, I even met women who had been granted residence on so-called code 6, i.e. that they lived at a secret address because they feared so much to be subjected to violence or killing, but felt that despite this they were obliged to make sure that the man they had fled from was going to be with the children. So they had to live near him. More people even experienced that public services did not secure information about their place of residence, and many children have experienced a terrible pressure to give their father information about where their mother lives and who she is with. Another example of crazy practice was given on 6 November this year. Then we could hear from the NRK about a woman who had to pay several thousand kroner a month to finance supervision by association, sail if it is the court that has imposed supervision because her ex-husband is violent and she has a violent alarm. The police have found ten guns at home with the man – but they have to have sex with the children. We know enough about the consequences of growing up with family violence. Alternatives to Violence estimate that about 100,000 children grow up in violent families. Family violence touches on the child’s fundamental sense of security, and security is a prerequisite for the child’s development and attachment. In fact, children living in a violent home can get brain damage. This has been demonstrated by, among others: Bruce Perry in 2004. Because the brain focuses all its energy on the violence and threats around it, other parts of the brain are underdeveloped. A summary of 47 different studies shows that children living in violent homes are often more pervasive, more aggressive, create more conflicts and have more antisocial behaviour than other children. Others are invasive, anxious and sad, and physical health is often worse than in other children. Many studies from different disciplines provide the basis for saying the following: Injured and injured girls – we unfortunately know too little about the boys – grow up to be injured and injured women, who become mothers of children who are injured and injured. The cross-generational effect of women’s violence experience is now very well documented. It suggests that abused women, especially if they have also been abused girls, have a high risk of a wide range of problems and illnesses, such as eating disorders, excessive obesity, chronic pain, chronic diseases, sexual problems, maritime murder, sea damage, drug abuse, etc. This is therefore extremely serious, and it is very important that knowledge is actively used — not least by the health services — to detect and prevent violence and abuse, and to provide adequate services to people with such experience. Dr. med. and general Anna Luise Churchengen has shown in his book ‘How children who are injured become ill adults’ how abuses such as violence and assault affect children’s health throughout their lives if they do not receive help. And do they get help? It is my claim that we do not have enough equipment to help children who live with family violence or, for that matter, children who are being abused. This summer I hosted a week at the Children’s Protection Office in the district of Sagene. I got into client talks and met several of the women we hear in the media, despairing women who want child protection to intervene and protect their children, mothers with children who go after long-term abuse and threats, where child and youth psychiatry clearly did not understand the importance of this violence to the child's health and behaviour, instead lightly after other factors. I met a woman with four locks on the door. She delivered the child to her company when the father asked for it, and she did not even dare ask them to enter into an agreement. But I also met a woman who came to the first conversation because the medical officer had sent a message of concern after she came completely proposed as a result of brutal abuse. She greatly appreciated that the medical officer had cared about her child's woe and well, and accepted the child protection assistance with great thanks. And I met child-restraint workers who are making an amazing effort, and who have taken on the role of coordinator to get to the important local cooperation between those who meet their children every single day, those who have to talk together if we're to achieve the goal that most people are talking about: quick and coordinated help for children who suffer. At the same time, it is clear to me that child protection has too limited opportunities to provide the assistance that they should be able to provide to these children, seas where they get to the important cross-border cooperation. Child protection lacks authority in consensual matters where serious conflicts between parents harm the children or where conflicts of association result from violence and threats. Today, it is unclear whether child protection can initiate an examination of the situation at home with a partner parent — as often a father — if they fear that the child is being subjected to care failure or violence. They cannot stop obviously harmful association, or go to the county to ask for it to be done. Nor can they ask for supervision by association. They only have two possibilities: 1st@item: inlistbox To assess whether Mother is able to protect her child well enough against a violent father. And if not, consider whether your mother is a good enough caregiver for your child. So that means that at last they may have to take care of their mother because she is unable to protect the child.2. To advise mother to go to court to stop the company, and possibly report father, something very few want or dare to do. Thus, all responsibility is placed on Mother. I think most people agree that this is completely unreasonable. It is not explicitly stated in the law today that a severe penalty should be imposed for family violence whose children are witnesses to the violence. It should. Children should also be given a clear opportunity to replace victims in such cases, in the same way as in Sweden. I think that'll be a challenge. Judges, lawyers and others who have an impact on the outcome of conspiracies must have a good knowledge of the consequences of family violence for children, and I believe that it should be assessed whether the subject matter, not the courts, is the right place in social conflicts that develop so seriously that child protection believes that the child suffers. In addition, the child’s perspective must be incorporated into auxiliaries’ routines and systems. Psychiatry and care, medical care and other health services must be provided with routines that always alert child protection when they are concerned about children they have in treatment or children of patients they have in treatment. The health centers are especially central, because we know that violence is exposed to women, increasing when they are pregnant. The police have been getting much better routines and systems in recent years. Both today's Minister of Justice and the previous one, I sail and many others have been drivers to get this done. Many other help agencies can learn a lot from how the police have evolved in this field. Today, many people say that they are afraid to report to child protection or the police, in fear of being wrong. But for the children it is far worse that no one does anything when there is a suspicion that something is wrong, than that someone reacts unnecessarily. Fear The children simply call it a lack of service when the auxiliaries don't send a message of concern. On the SV side, we have great hopes for Barna's house, which will be established next year, and which I sail is one of the proposers behind. And we hope that the Minister for Children – and also the Minister for Justice – will take even more cross-ministerial initiatives in this area. We know that both the Minister for Children and the Minister for Justice are committed to protecting children from violence and abuse. That is why we want the measures I have outlined to be seriously assessed, such as strengthening child protection, clear demands for cross-border cooperation at local level, new and clear procedures and systems for reporting concerns, stricter judicial responses when children are witnessing violence, and increased knowledge and competence at all stages. I don't think either the auxiliaries or the judiciary have fully understood what it means for a child to live with violence in the family. I think a lot of people still say, "Yes, but he didn't use violence against the child." We have to do everything we can to prevent children from suffering from this lack of understanding.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-21.ana.ud1836e208	Let me first thank Mr. Inga Marte Thorkildsen for bringing this up, which the entire government sees as a very serious social problem, a hidden social problem to a very great extent. We need all sorts of arenas to raise this particular issue, both in a child protection perspective and in a criminal policy perspective. We see that there is far too little debate, too little attention just around this – often hidden – crime. In other words, we need such debates. Living with threats and violence in our own family is one of the worst things we can do for our children. Gradually, we have received a public focus, among other things. on violence against women – in my opinion also not an adequate focus there. But it's quite obvious that the children need a stronger focus. Domestic violence is also serious because it can happen over time without anyone noticing it. There is also a danger that someone will not be alerting just because it is happening within the family, and that for that reason you consider it something you have nothing to do with. That is why we need to create a society where all children are seen – even outside the family. No families own their children alone. Children are independent individuals with requirements for protection, regardless of who are their caregivers. In this perspective, all common arenas where children travel become important listening posts where children’s signals have to be captured. Let me first say that research clearly demonstrates the severity of the adverse effects that children can cause by being subjected to various forms of violence and abuse by those who were to provide care and security for the child. I've sometimes said that in many ways it's a double intrusion of very vulnerable individuals. The auxiliary equipment, in my opinion, takes violence against children and the consequences of this serious, but a lot of work remains. Violence against children may be difficult to detect and not least to provide sufficient evidence for use in the legal context. There's no excuse not to go all the way out. Initially, I would like to touch on the role of child protection in suspecting abuse during association, as the representative also mentions. It is true that the protection of children does not have the right to intervene directly in the arrangements for association agreed or provided for by the right under the Children’s Act. However, child protection has a clear responsibility – I stress a clear responsibility – when a child is suspected of being subjected to violence or abuse during association. The best of the child is for wherever the child is located. In July 2006, in order to enhance the competence of the Child Protection Service in just such cases, the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality issued a separate guidance document on the role of child protection in the event of suspected abuses in association. In the supervisor, there are, among other things: clarification that notifications to the Child Protection Service of the concern that a child may be subjected to violence or abuse in association shall be treated in the same way as other concerns messages and that an examination of the child’s care situation may be carried out against the cohabiting parent and in the cohabitation home. It's important to underline this. This guide also deals with how child protection services can contribute to the protection of the child through various assistance measures, advice and guidance to the parent with whom the child lives. The supervisor also provides guidance on the relationship between child protection services and police and prosecution authorities in such cases. In other words, the child is not exempt from society’s obligations in relation to how the child actually does, whether it is in a social situation. So far, practice is clear. As the representative of Thorkildsen points out, the problem may arise if child protection finds reason to respond to the care of one’s parents, but where, for various reasons, resident parents do not have or have the power to institute a new case of association. Here today, we have a practice in which the care failure of a partner parent becomes primarily a matter between the partners on association, which must be promoted in the ordinary legal system, which was also addressed by the representative Thorkildsen, while the care failure of a resident parent can be promoted through the administration. It is not uncommon for caring ability to be a topic in the purely social matters as well. I see that this is a challenge. Nevertheless, the solution is not obvious. In order to promote issues of parental care failure, we would have a two-track system that could be used independently of each other. This is the government something skeptical about. Nevertheless, there are situations in which individuals come out unluckily. Violence against children is a priority theme in both the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality and in other governments, and the issue now raised by Thorkildsen will be assessed by the Government to see if there are other ways to solve it. With regard to the procedures for managing the care services, I would like to draw up the Routine Manual for the Child Protection Service in the municipalities, which was published in May 2006. The Routine Manual contains, inter alia: proposals for checklists and examples of procedures for handling messages. With regard to health care, children come into contact with this, among other things. health centres, school health services and medical guards. Both I and the central health authorities agree with Thorkildsen that it is important that health professionals have a conscious relationship with the information obligation of child protection. And I stress the obligation to provide information – what we usually hear about is perhaps the obligation of professional secrecy. The Directorate for Social Affairs and Health has therefore, in cooperation with the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality, developed and recently published a circular in October 2006. is about the obligation of healthcare professionals to provide information to child protection services in the event of suspicion that children are exposed to domestic violence or abuse. So both the representative Thorkildsen and I know that circulars and supervisors are absolutely necessary, but not enough tools to ensure that the auxiliary equipment actually reports in case of suspicion of violence. Let me therefore say: Health professionals, kindergarten workers and teachers have a legal obligation to warn children about child protection when they suspect that a child is being subjected to violence. This is not something that individual employees should decide on on their own. It's a management responsibility, and it has to be put into a system. Much is already being done to improve cooperation between relevant agencies and to increase the skills and knowledge of exploitation, violence and abuse against children and young people. In particular, I would like to highlight the following: The National Knowledge Centre on Violence and Traumatic Stress shall perform national research tasks and contribute to the development of new measures, methods and education in the field of violence and trauma, including various types of violence and child abuse. Four regional resource centres on violence, trauma and suicide prevention have recently been established. These I think are important, among other things. to focus on this, as the representative of Thorkildsen also asks. The fifth centre shall be established in a short time. The central roles of these centres include: providing direct guidance to the auxiliary equipment and establishing networks and obliging cooperation structures between relevant cooperation partners within each region. I would also like to mention the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality project ‘Children living with violence in the family’, which has provided good evidence of the adverse effects of violence and driven knowledge dissemination to current services. The project shall develop treatment methods for children who have been subjected to violence or who have been witnesses to violence. It shall further disseminate this knowledge to the treatment provider and provide information and knowledge to the first-line services and the general public so that these children can be seen. The Government will continue this project in 2007-2009 and will in future focus on the dissemination of knowledge, the development of methods, procedures and manuals in the services that come directly into contact with vulnerable children. A major national conference on violence against children will be organised in 2007 based on experience from this project and international knowledge. With regard to Thorkildsen's wording on tougher responses in court, I would point out that the Soria Moria Government's statement emphasises that the penalties for selected, serious crime types should be stricter, including gross violence and clearly gross violence and abuse of children. In particular, this applies to family violence or other close relationships, where children are in a highly dependent relationship with caregivers. Suffering if the Government does not have the right to instruct the prosecution authority or the courts, is hoped by me that the prosecution authority and the courts will continue to take the signals sent in this area, when they make the claim of punishment, and when they impose penalties. We now have a very good opportunity in the government's work on creating a whole new penal code, so that we can put in place the penalties and penalties we feel are right in this field, also balanced against other types of crime. See if we have many good examples of institutions and agencies cooperating with each other, we also see many examples of children not getting the help they need because the systems do not have the power to cooperate and to inform each other. This is worrying. When schools and kindergartens barely know who to address in e.g. the protection of children, this may affect children in need of assistance. At the same time, we see that where municipalities or cities create cooperative relations and put this into system, children also get the multidisciplinary help they often need. The government is in favour of the municipalities having their services organised by sea, but I recall that good professional and sound assistance requires cooperation and often mutual information. The systems exist for the children – not the other way around. I believe that a cross-ministerial approach to these issues, as requested by the representative Thorkildsen, is absolutely necessary – perhaps more important in many ways than increased appropriations – and will assure the representative Thorkildsen that the Government, the Minister for Children and Gender Equality, the Minister of Justice and others have both taken and will take new initiatives in this regard. Work is in progress specifically aimed at children. The representative of Thorkildsen was in the establishment of Barna's house, which is absolutely a cross-ministerial bet, and where I hope that next year we will really see the fruits of the investigation work that has been done, and which will be an important place for children who experience having it very difficult.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-21.ana.ud1836e248	I would like to thank the Minister of Justice for the answer. I think the Minister of Justice is showing a great and great commitment to these matters, and that is terribly important. I hope and believe that both the Minister of Justice and the Minister of Children will ensure that all departments go through their laws and their systems to see if it is good enough to take care of the child's perspective, which we are also obliged to do under the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child. The Children's Convention had a birthday yesterday, and we can remember that too. I fully agree with the Minister of Justice that some of the reasons for both the accident and the uncertainty associated with this are that the violence takes place within the home's four walls. In this way, it is about the private sphere that many are anxious to enter, and there is also some reason why the women's movement in its time created the slogan 'The private is political'. It was a very important slogan. So the question is, what can child protection do if they detect violence and abuse during association? Then there is a question of instruments, and I see that the government wants to look at the tools that child protection has. That's what I think is very positive signals. For one thing, when one discovers that a child is directly exposed to violence and abuse, it is very clear what to do, but if the child suffers because his mother is being threatened and abused by his father, it becomes all the more difficult. So I think it's really important to raise your skills. I also know, as Storberget referred to, that there is a work going on in this field. It is also stated in the Soria Moria Declaration that we should go through relevant educations to see if you have sufficient knowledge of violence and assault issues. I would also like to refer to the important work that, among other things, are made in Westfold by the family violence team there, where they regularly invite all relevant professional groups to get together and discuss what can be done to help children who are exposed to violence. One of the themes there was: Tell me about one time that you made a difference to a child. – It initiates some important processes that perhaps many of us could have gone through. So I think we have to go in and see if we have good enough jurisdictions to make demands for local cooperation. There's a lot of good going on around, and I'll again highlight the Sagen neighbourhood, where you actually meet regularly in a youth team and a children's room. These are called response teams. There are, then, everything from police, health centre, culture, health care and child and youth psychiatry, which are often absent in such contexts. That also applies to several others. This cooperation is extremely important in order to put together the fractions of a reality into a whole. This with routines to report to child protection must also be ensured. So thank you so much for your answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-21.ana.ud1836e265	In many ways, this debate is a challenge in assessing what is best for the child, because we have two tracks and two systems. One is the track on the issue of coercive measures for the protection of children, and the other is more civil law between the parties, where to decide both where to live and where to live. Let there be no doubt that being subjected to violence as a child, or being a witness to violence, for example. that a caregiver is subjected to violence are relevant assessment themes in both axes. To the extent that there is doubt that the mother is subjected to violence in a couple relationship, and it should not have any significance in assessing the child’s situation at home, I am quite sure that there are important elements that already apply to the county councils and also to the child protection services locally, which are crucial in assessing the question of what is best for the child. Just this debate and the focus on the fact that children are witnesses to the violence of caregivers is clearly significant in relation to the question of how the child is at home and what is best for the child. We have broad evidence on the question of what it means for the child to see that a caregiver is subjected to violence, and it is important to assess what is best for the child. It also has an impact on the judicial assessment by the courts of whether or not to grant access to the child and is suspected or covered by the child’s being subjected to violence, it is certainly an important element. The issue raised by the interpellant addresses the question of the possibility of child protection acting on a community agreement. As I said in my main post, there is also something that the Government will assess from the point of view of the matter that has been raised – at least look at the extent to which we can make the systems themselves more flexible. It is, as the interpellant has also been involved, not simply for a mother or a father to always have to go to court to get such questions reworked. It should be simpler, precisely because the issue of whether the child is subjected to violence is crucial. Then I would just like to point out briefly that in the next year, both from the Ministry of Justice and also with the good help of the other departments, we will put in place a good deal of measures to increase the focus on this situation. Among other things, I would like to point out: on the efforts we are making in the police by setting up teams to address this type of issue, increasing the use of an aid lawyer, the issue of violence alarm, the issue of the Barna House bet, the extension of the auxiliary equipment in relation to the attackers and the question of facilitating the warning possibilities for children, among others. a central telephone. These are the themes we'll come back to, and this is a good start.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-21.ana.ud1836e281	I would first like to thank the interpellant for putting this important topic on the agenda. No one today knows how many children are exposed to domestic violence every year – often the harm to mother. These children are witnesses to one of the worst acts of violence within what is to be their safe place of growth: home and a mother and a father who are happy in each other and in their family. Although the children do not experience violence on the body, they are witnesses to a crime, a crime, and an act that often repeats itself. Always being insecure and insecure in your own home and in your relationship with your family can often create insecurity and mental trauma that you will live with for the rest of your life. On the TV 2 news Sunday, November 12, we heard a fictitious feature from an emergency phone for children in Canada. The Children's Ombudsman said last week that there's a paradox that there's a number to order pizza, while we're missing a common number to call Child Protection. I believe that coordination between all institutions and all auxiliary services that come into effect when school sees a child suffering will lead to a better and more coordinated follow-up of the child. Today, for example, a child encounters problems. PP services, social education teachers, advisers and child and youth psychiatry. Not all schools have a social pedagogical teacher. Then it is the teacher contact that has a significant responsibility to intervene and contact child protection. Although no law or regulation says that this responsibility lies with the contact teacher, I think there are many in society who see and observe and expect to correct the person intervene. Not all teachers are struggling to intervene. In small communities, the teacher may know the parents. It's important to make the teacher aware. The teacher has a responsibility that maybe the only safe adult in a child's life. In addition to having contact and conversations with his/her teacher, the child may also have been in contact with the police, the health services and child protection. The knowledge and willingness of the school and the teacher to intervene in awkward and difficult situations are not always present. There is also a restriction between these institutions as to whom confidentiality-related information may be provided without the consent of the child's parents. As far as school is concerned, this can be a big problem. I trust that child protection will ensure that the information flows well between the agencies, especially between the police, school and health care nurses at the health centre and the PPT. The aim of child protection and of schools should be to make the best possible arrangements for the child concerned. The professional performance of children at school is often related to the functioning of the family. In Finland, as we often look at in the field of school, they have introduced measures to help children professionally at a much earlier stage than what we do in Norway, for example. in the case of special education. We want a school for everyone, also for children with a little extra heavy backpack. Everyone's gonna have a chance. It is then important that all the agencies that are in place to help have binding cooperation structures. The NAV reform has been introduced. Adults now have one door to contact instead of three. This should be done to a maximum extent also for children.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-21.ana.ud1836e302	First, I would like to say to the interpellant that it is commendable that she is actually promoting this difficult topic. It's improper. Of course, children should not experience domestic violence or abuse, whether they live with one another and stay with the other, or vice versa. But I have to warn the interpellant about the stigmatisation she does of children growing up in violent homes. She characterizes them. I kind of think that's very unfortunate. Not only does she stigmatize the children, but she also stigmatizes the women and the men. In addition, I also think that the interpellant rejects the treatment when she says that they do not understand how harmful it is to grow up with violence. Of course they do. These are people who are very competent in the field. Of course they know that. Perhaps they feel powerless in view of the fact that violent people are not judged strictly enough. More severe penalties are what the Progress Party has proposed several times. She boasts of Cityel Sagene Children's Protection Service and their cross-disciplinary cooperation. Now there are weekly or monthly cross-country meetings between health care centres, police, schools and the various agencies everywhere in the large municipalities around the country. It's probably more information flow and the fear of intervening in the private sphere that may reflect a little bit. But as I said, it's a very important topic the interpellant addresses. I actually want to welcome the interpellant to participate in the interpellation on female violence, which is to be on Friday. Then we have a European mark on female violence. We have also heard that the interpellant has been concerned that it is the father who is a rapist. Throughout the 10-minute post, the father is a rapist. I will strongly warn against it. It's actually so that even women are violent at home. We have to be careful with stigmatizing everyone. The interpellant referred to the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child. I necessarily have to do that to get some balance in this debate. Children are entitled to both their parents, even if there is a high level of conflict between the parties. Of course, there should be mutual cooperation, and of course, there should be an affair when children suffer. But I think the most important thing we can do is help the parents. It is stated in the interpellant that the interpellant wants child protection to intervene in consensual matters. I believe that if child protection intervenes in conspiracies, it will do nothing but strengthen the conflict. As I said, I think the most important thing we can do is help parents and build up the skills of family counselling offices – and child protection, like it. But it's ultimately about getting the parties to understand what damage they're doing to their children. I'm going to say that parents who have divorced are a much smaller problem for a child than it is for a child to live in conditions where there is domestic violence daily, and where oppression and abuse are part of everyday life. We have given information to crisis centres when women and children move back to a violent man. It's one tool. If it works, it's a little too early to say yet, because it's not that long since we did this. I want to warn you the most strongly against child protection being involved in community matters. By means of guidance and empowerment, the State must facilitate the resolution of conflicts.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-21.ana.ud1836e323	It's a big, complex and terribly difficult field we're moving into this interpellation. We're moving in the public utility, and we're moving in the family's most private zone. We're talking about the most helpless in our society, young children. And we're dealing with a social problem that unfortunately is on the rise, if we're going to believe the statistics, the research and the media correctly. 2 000 concerns messages are put aside and do not receive satisfactory follow-up, is a message we have received in the last few days. It's a message for reflection. The question is, what do we do? I think, like the representative Karin S. Woldseth, that one should be careful to address this issue with preconceived views and simple solutions. I think, like her, that we are facing very competent people both in child protection and in other areas that relate to children, be they the schoolwork or the judiciary. On the other hand, I think it might be a point to get a little bit better numbers to substantiate some of the perceptions that we carry with us. Here there's quite plenty of room for mythology. We're going to be careful because it can lead us to a little bit too fast solutions. I also think it is important to approach the systems of critical thought. The children's protection seat is an enormously large establishment, and it may seem a little unwieldy as we approach it – at least from the outside. The Minister for the Family has signaled that she wants to turn every stone, and she has also signaled an external review of child protection. I think that's very useful. Then we're going to look at this in more detail. There are also questions about how to get more agencies to work together. Obviously, that's a very central question. How do we get the judiciary, the police, the school and everyone else who deals with children, to work up against child protection so that everyone plays and pulls the same road, as I'm convinced everyone will? It is important, and in that work nothing should be unruly. But there's a couple of things that it's important to keep to yourself. One is that there is no need to get into a situation where there is a powdering of responsibilities. It must be clear who will be responsible for – let's say – the care of children. This is clear, but it is also important to clarify it. The second is the limit to the issue of legal certainty. With regard to the role to be played by the county councils, e.g.: in the case of association, I would like to raise a warning indexing finger in relation to the issue of legal security. We believe that Barna's house is an exciting and concrete measure, which we should now see to get started. The right has great impatience in getting that project going, and in the context of this year's budget we will promote the desire for three regional Barna Houses. We think it's important that there's more than one. Norway is a complex country, and we do not necessarily believe that the problems in Oslo are transferable to all other regions. Let's start with it as a very concrete matter, where those who work on child protection can meet – a new arena where you can meet and work out from a little new guidelines. Then we look forward to the government working on a critical review of child protection, and that we get a direction where child protection is going to work with children and not with each other and with bureaucracy.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-21.ana.ud1836e346	It is very commendable that the interpellant addresses the issue of violence against children. It is also a difficult issue, and I think it is illustrated here in the Chamber today. Reactions from both Karin S. Woldseth and Olemic Thommessen show how difficult it really is. I also want to say that I'm surprised at the angle the last two speakers pick from the theme. My experience, after working in the health care system for many years, is different from what is described by the last two speakers here. The experience that I've done is that the threshold for intervention in violence against children, when there is a care failure in relation to children, is too high. That there should then be dangerous or related concerns that someone actually engages in detecting it, I think is a rather strange angle. I believe that the General Council of State has given a good account of the measures that the Government is working on in order to do more in this area. So I'm not going to focus on it, but I'm going to stay on the ground. What we sometimes forget is that abuse, violence and failure to care for children can start even before the child is born, and often in combination with alcohol and drugs. I have even experienced in a single instance that the situation of a child to be born was such that it would obviously lead to lasting harm to the child because of abuse problems and abuse of the mother, and also because mother was in a drug environment. I experienced an engaged health sister who said that here we have to intervene. What I experienced then was a child-rescue device that hesitated to intervene, a child-rescue device that instead mobilized resistance and tried to find reasons for not doing anything, because it was complicated and demanded a case in general. The health sister was here – I want to say commendable enough – more desperate for every day that went, because she was thinking about the child that was not born. Luckily, this case succeeded in protecting the child, so that it went well afterwards. Then I have registered a reading article in the paper from someone who has been on a medical watch. He writes that he experiences that the watchful doctor sees the parents coming in from each side, and that the father comes running in the drunken state with a child to the medical officer. The doctor provides treatment for what is likely to be some sort of infection, and then the medical officer sees that both parents withdraw intoxicated with the child. You might think that they did something in retrospect anyway. But I think the main problem here is that you operate with so high thresholds to intervene that it becomes obvious to everyone that this is wrong, before you finally do something. It is clear that there are many important, important arenas where more could be done — the nursery is a good example of it, as are leisure homes, primary schools and secondary schools — but where the uncertainty about the consequences of reporting or intervening for the staff who see that this can be a care failure is not such that they do. I believe that one of the reasons why it's going to be like this is the fear that it's going to be an offense to tell you that you're worried. - It can't be. Gro Harlem Brundtland said in a New Year's speech – I want to say commendable enough – that the neighboring ring that said when something was wrong should be restored. What we see is that today we live in a society where families are becoming more and more isolated, where you can have mothers who alone care for children, where there is a care failure because you are totally overburdened, because you don't have anyone to relieve yourself. Then you sit there, you don't get to sleep, and then you go wrong. I've registered myself, while I was studying medicine, how it's different in cultures, for example. between Italy and Germany, simply because the large family helps to reduce the pressure, not least on mother, and thus distributes the burden of care. That's how it gets less care failure. But if we as politicians are to warn against anyone taking it up as a topic, it has to go wrong. If you don't want to dry up the lid, take the angles, if you don't want to dry up, because you can't take all the reservations in a 10 minute post, we're paralysed. I have to say that I'm glad that it's actually the government and government parties here that intend to do something, because we have the opportunity to do that by a majority in the Chamber. It does not sound obvious if the opposition should have been in position to deal with this.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-21.ana.ud1836e368	I'll give praise to No Marte Thorkildsen for the interpellation she's taking up today. This is a theme that we in the Christian People's Party are very concerned about. The search light on selected against children in families is important. Some families become directly involved, others by seeing and listening to violence against others in the family, usually against mothers or siblings. These are vulnerable and sometimes ‘invisible’ children and young people who need protection, help and follow-up. Fear, unrest and insecurity characterize their everyday lives. Many of the valds are hidden, kept secret, and tabulated. Child protection has an important role to play in matters where children need protection and help to get out of a life situation influenced by power. This is also important in order to counteract the reproduction of the quail. The Child Protection Act is clear on the responsibility of child protection, but there is still a need to increase the competence of the service and improve cooperation between child protection and the services that meet family members when they are in an acute crisis, such as the crisis centre and the police. A prerequisite for good cooperation and action is that knowledge of choice and abuse becomes part of the competence of each service unit uses in its practical work. Cooperation must be committed and anchored at the level of the leader. Cooperation must be based on openness and mutual respect, and cooperation must be useful to all participating parties. Regeningen Bondevik II start a three-year project called ‘Children living with family violence’ [[2004-2006]] For the Christian People's Party, it is important to ensure that all children who have witnessed one parent striking the other are not forced to associate with the ruler after a break in life. Although the selected person does not directly frame the child, he will undoubtedly form the basis for fear and insecurity. That is why the Bondevik II administration proposed changes to children’s lives in order to provide children with evidence of violence with greater legal protection in relation to issues of association. However, when the court decides that association should be carried out, but with supervision, we believe that child protection must pay for and provide for people who can supervise the association. NOVA researcher Anne Solberg has implemented a project on power in homes where there are children. The project will shed light on how to help children with local election experiences to break their silence. Breaking away what's often a family secret, to some outsiders can be an important first step on the way to getting help. Many of Solberg's informants have kept themselves elected for years. For some, it is about limiting a discomfort in time, for example. by not talking about the vat that happens at night, when it is day. Letting say something about what's going on in the world can also be a way to avoid marking itself as being dissimilar in the negative direction of others. When everyone else has nice dads, it's hard to tell them that one of their own dads is bad. The interview also shows that silence may be the result of a risk assessment. It seems that for children who are being turned off, it may be particularly risky to tell someone outside the family. When the chances of the situation getting worse – that I'm being knocked even more – are considered to be greater than the possibilities of improvement – that I'm being knocked down – it's going to be a shame to say something that's the most secure. Besides the family, there are two special groups that appear to be helpful to these children. It's the teachers at the children's school and they added to the crisis center. The position they attach to child protection vis-à-vis their young clients seems to give them a poorer chance of seeing their daily lives over time than the position that teachers and those who are in crisis centres have. Teachers and helpers in crisis centres participate to a greater extent in activities with their children, and through it provide an independent basis for understanding the conditions under which their children live. The same thing will apply to adding to kindergarten. Therefore, it is important to improve the procedures for reporting concerns, especially from kindergarten, school, health centre and crisis centre, and adequate child protection resources to follow them up. Finally, something that I thought I would go into: it is very important to also see the relationship between violence and alcohol policy. There are the enormous challenges that I could wish we could take more into account here as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-21.ana.ud1836e391	Child protection is not just a matter of child protection. It is therefore important to focus on how best to cooperate with the various bodies responsible for children. In some places, multidisciplinary cooperation works well, while there may be a lack of cooperation elsewhere. A multidisciplinary culture of real and results-oriented cooperation does not necessarily arise under legal requirements, but rather by recognising that good cooperation structures help families and children to get both more and better help. The challenge is that there are both municipal, county and state actors who have to work together, but it is a challenge that it is quite possible to solve. Therefore, it is important to present the good examples of how it can work, and to disseminate experiences from the successful municipalities, to those who struggle to make it work with the targeted collaboration. In the municipalities that are on the right track of the theme taken up by the representative, Thorkildsen sees that one is mutually dependent on each other for happiness, and they have measures within a wide range of areas based on the knowledge that everything is related. I have a few examples: when the police have their own family council coordinator with a special responsibility for following up family elections, the contact between the police and child protection will again become more frequent and better. Municipal prevention consultants can play the role of good coordinators. And when child protection has regular contact with kindergartens and schools, it's easier for those who work there to come up with worry messages. It shows all the experience. In the lack that we have in Kommune-Noreg, it will not necessarily be so that what works in a place will work in another place. It's about geography, it's about the size of the service supply, and it's about what kind of agencies are there. But sharing the good copies is still worth gold. We all need to be more effective in highlighting the importance of taking the best care of the children and families who are being selected and threatened, and in facilitating the improvement of the auxiliary equipment. In this context, it is important to create a debate and arenas for empowerment and exchange of experience across management levels and responsibilities. Therefore, the Centre Party will praise the initiative taken by the representative of Thorkildsen, and hopes for a constructive debate on society in the future on how we should be more successful in providing safe growth conditions for the majority of possible children.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-21.ana.ud1836e404	I would also like to thank the inter-pellant for the initiative. I am very much in agreement with the approach, especially with the perspective that being a witness to violence is also an important part of this. What I would like to distance myself from – I'm going to come back to the argument – is when you say that there is a clear cause – impact based on all the expertise we have to date. I have great confidence that people can break out and change. We also see that children with very similar experiences can deal with it in very different ways. I also disagree that this is so gender-related that only men are perpetrators of violence. So I want to say, sail if Ballo tried to draw a distinction between the government parties and the rest of us in relation to who's concerned about this, that I'm very proud to belong to a party that had the Justice Minister in the last period, which got so much done in this area. We got a completely different focus on a lot of police work, and we got family violence lifted as a problem that you should actively go into and have skills on, instead of the old housewreck approach. On the part of the Christian People's Party, one also said a good deal about the laws that were taken to strengthen children's legal certainty. I think there are a lot of government agencies that are on the right track. My message of concern, which comes here, is primarily related to the protection of children. It is primarily linked to a very lack of knowledge, which I also experience as I travel around the system: the knowledge of the effect of violence, the knowledge of the effect of being a witness to violence, the knowledge of how to attack it in different ways, and how to attack it at as early a time as possible. In relation to the interpellant's proposal for a solution all the time, as it might seem, I will also mention the absence of father and mother after experiencing such things. Because we humans have a subtle ability to be happy in a lot of people who don't deserve it. How to deal with the absence of people who don't deserve us to be happy with them, but in which we are still happy, is also part of the children's perspective on this. When I was at school in Oslo, we started a big project to look at children with war experiences, which we had a picture of were ticking violent bombs around in the Oslo schools. We had a great aha experience as we went in and looked at the children who had extreme violent experiences, and saw that there was not primarily violence with which the violent experiences were answered. It was children who in themselves worked well in a high school class. But when they arrived in the teens, real concentration problems occurred, they lag behind in trades, and especially in concentration matters. So it was completely different effects than what we had a picture of was the effects of this. The second aspect that I want to address is the competence of the multicultural in this regard, which I think we need to work much more systematically in the field of child protection. And it might not just be talking about a cross-ministerial approach, as the Council of State draws up, but just as much the local perspective, as I think Ballo drew out very well in his post. In Oslo, when I was a town councillor, I tried to get a clear link by saying that every school should have its police officer, every school should have its child protection staff, so that every teacher and everyone who goes to school knows who they are. That means that the student has someone to go to, the teacher has someone to go to, Mom has someone to go to, and the uncle who picks up the student at school has someone to go to. We generally know too little about the effects, and we have far too little competence, especially on the multicultural part of it, in the bodies that are going to do the job. In order to do a good job in this area, it is primarily about having people who are engaged, who have knowledge, and who dare to go into matters. It's not just about laws, it's primarily about knowledge and competence, and about people who are engaged in helping these children to get the way of life, sail if they have terrible things they can tell.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-21.ana.ud1836e421	First, I would also like to give tribute to the representative of Thorkildsen, who addresses a very important topic. Domestic violence is a very difficult area to work against, because it is usually so covered up, and thus almost invisible. Therefore, I think it is incredibly important that we keep the spotlight on this problem and show that we care, and do not forget that there are victims of violence around in Norwegian homes. Domestic violence can be very different. In some homes, ladies are beaten by violent men; in some homes it's probably the other way around. In other homes, someone is raped by his partner, and in some homes, children are beaten by the same perpetrator. In other cases, children may be disabled by both parents. And in the ultimate sense, these relationships can end in killing. When we hear about these matters in the news, it is usually referred to as house trouble, or family tragedy. I believe that in many ways this covers the fact that there are serious acts of violence, or in some cases killing. This way of talking about the problem tells us in many ways that this is a private matter – that these acts of violence and killings are of a private nature, and that we should not care about it. I think it's time to call a spade a spade and a crime. It'll be no less criminal to beat anyone if you're close to the victims. Not least I think it's bad when kids are involved. Because we all know that kids don't have the same chance to protect themselves from violence, nor do they have the same resources to get in touch with people who can help them out of misery. That's why I'm very happy that the Council of State is now signaling that the Government will really make an effort against domestic violence. The government has increased support for Alternatives to Violence, where people with violent tendencies can learn to master their minds better. It has extended the number of hours to an aid lawyer in rape cases, which unfortunately is a significant part of domestic violence. The fact that the Government has also made it possible to provide this assistance before the case is brought before it helps to strengthen the legal certainty of the victims, who gain much better knowledge of their rights. The government is also working to give us a test order with so-called reverse violent alarm. This is very important, because it shifts the responsibility and burden from the victim to the one who has actually committed the violence. Now it is the perpetrator who has to go with an alarm that roars as he approaches the victim, and who is responsible for complying with a restraining order – not vice versa, as it has been. All these are measures that will give many a better and safer life. But although these measures will make everyday life much easier for many, unfortunately it will still be for some that there is a violent husband and is waiting for them when they come home from work. Some kids will still experience that one of their parents has given the second Christmas when they come home from school, and many of these kids will get a real round of Christmas themselves. Because even if we put in extra resources, it's still just as important that society takes responsibility and shows commitment, and that one cares. As has been mentioned earlier, I think it is very important that the neighboring platoon who believes that not everything is in the care of the neighbor says so. I think it's very important that the teacher who suspects that one of the students doesn't have it so well at home takes it up, and I think it's very important that you dare to take a serious talk with your friend if you think he's not treating his family as well as he should. Only with a great effort from the Government, combined with the involvement of a community, can we overcome such a problem, and I hope we do.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-21.ana.ud1836e444	I also want to pay tribute to the interpellant for bringing up this important topic here today. I think we all have to agree that violence is totally unacceptable, anyway. No type of violence shall take place. In the evening post last week, we could read that there were 100,000 children living with violence every day. In addition, there are 2,000 children and 1000 women seeking relief after being subjected to violence or witnessing violence every week. These numbers are probably much higher, but they don't show up. It is therefore important that we have this debate here today. I must say that I am pleased that the Minister of Justice is here to deal with this matter, because this goes as much in the justice sector as in the Minister of Family Affairs and Gender Equality. That's why it's important that we have this debate across the fractions. Violence against children is one of the most brutal and most degrading violence there is. We know that children who are subjected to violence, who have seen violence, have easier to practice violence later, in their youth, and when they become adults. Then we know where they end up in the statistics. All parties are concerned about this. The interpellant has a somewhat monotonous focus on child protection and on the fact that it is a father who beats. A lot of statistics show that Mom is hitting too. We all have a responsibility, not least the health centres, kindergartens and schools, and it's a multidisciplinary teamwork in the municipalities. Many times we see that it is the duty of professional secrecy that prevents some from getting help. There are a lot of measures to be taken. There's help at home. It's therapy that you can go to. There are also alternatives to violence, which help men stop beating. There are also projects in prison. In Stavanger, there is a VINN project that also helps women who have been subjected to violence and who have committed violence. In a look-up in the VG today, the interpellant writes about stricter penalties, and that's good. The Storting said in the treatment of Section 72 of the Penal Code that there should be stricter penalties in which children were involved. But I have to say that in connection with Section 72 of the Penal Code, the SV is the one who speaks the most about the widespread use of community sanctions, that this system should also apply in the event of serious violence and moral crimes. That is why it is positive that the Soria Moria Declaration states, and that the Minister of Justice has also said that when the criminal law is re-examined, proposals for stricter penalties should be brought back. We are also positive about what the Minister of Justice said in the evening post last week about the new emergency phone for children and the establishment of a family violence team in the police. Then this work increased the status of the police. If all the parties want to go in order for this to be something we're going to get control of and get settled in, we're going to have to work together. We need to work together to reduce – and preferably get away – all the violence that children are subjected to.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-21.ana.ud1836e465	This is a very important matter and a debate which clearly arouses the different reactions of the representatives. I think the two most eye-catching posts that have been held today came from the Olemic Thommessen and Karin Woldseth. I almost have to ask the two representatives, sail if they're not in the room now, if they think the violence is private. Violence is not private. As one of the previous speakers said, violence is crime, seafaring if it happens in a home. That is the starting point for this debate, and that was also the starting point for the interpellant. Then it is a fact that most of the violence is committed by men. It's uncomfortable, certainly, for someone to admit it. It is true that women also commit assaults, including against their children, also violence against children, also violence against partners, but unfortunately the main volume of violence is committed by men. This can be seen in crisis centers, and in whom it is given a violent alarm. Therefore it is not unnatural that it is mentioned, sail about the interpellant nor said that it was just men. I'm a little surprised that someone – perhaps especially from the party that sails are most concerned with counting statistics on other crimes committed in society related to special groups – reacts that way, when talking about a major problem of violence where unfortunately there is one sex who bears a very great responsibility for the violence that has been committed. You might have to be willing to look at statistics in a lot of ways, if you want to look at them. So the representative Woldseth says that the interpellant stigmatises women and children who have been subjected to violence. No, it's not like that, but it reminds me very much of some of the reactions I encountered when I was in the crisis center early in the 1970s. Then it was that women were subjected to violence, stigmatizing to them. They bore the shame that someone else should have borne. They were ashamed to have been subjected to violence seas, and it sounds as if someone still thinks it is. When you say yes, children are injured by violence, also by seeing that one of the parents is subjected to violence, it doesn't mean that none of these children are going to be okay for the rest of their lives. There's a lion's antennae. There are children who act after growing up in the most uneasy and cruel conditions. But in general we know that this hurts, and then we have to be able to say it. Being injured by the fact that someone has hurt you is nothing to go against someone who has been injured. I don't know if it really helps so much if it's stigma for someone who does it either. But it's very important the work that the interpellant has done, also to put in place an apparatus that can make violent people stop practicing violence. I think this room should notice that the interpellant has been one of the strongest drivers for it, in terms of auxiliaries both for men and for women. So that's enough to call for e.g. Child Protection, and I can give an example of that. I know that Hedmark County is involved in the follow-up service and in the youth that this is out of high school. What we know about many of them is that some of them have a problematic background. That's why you've wanted to have a relationship with the psychiatry, with the state child protection and with the police. Unfortunately, only the police have agreed to enter into committed cooperation around these young people. It shows that state child protection is not always fully involved when needed, and when those who are responsible locally want to cooperate. Then, finally, to the Minister. He says we have a two-track system, and that's why we can't go on with the changes that the interpellant suggests, because there's going to be a problem in the system. At the same time he says that the system must exist for the children. Therefore, I would challenge the Council of State to explain this again, because it is a little bit difficult to understand why this two-track system is necessary to maintain, if there are changes in such a two-track system that could help some of these children who we know are being subjected to violence by the one who is a partner. It must be at least as big a problem for the authorities that it happens, as if violence were perpetrated by the caregiver.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-21.ana.ud1836e482	That was the last article by the representative Karin Andersen that made me speak in this debate. Is violence a private phenomenon? No, but what happens behind the four walls of the house is partly private in nature, and we're also going to think about that when we go into this. But of course: violence against children and against partners is serious, and it is to be taken seriously by society. What Karin Andersen didn't focus on was the challenge that came from the representative Solvency Horne, the fact that violence and rape on the part of SV are considered to be punishable by community punishment, a pat on the shoulder. It says something about how that problem is assessed in terms of severity, and that is something that should definitely be remembered when entering into such a debate. We have never said from the Progress Party that we do not want to focus on violence against women, but we have said – and also Karin S. Woldseth stressed this – that we must be aware that there are also some women who are responsible for violence. What is particularly relevant in this context is that society is still such that it is very difficult for men to cope with the problem — men who have been subjected to gross violence by their wives — and also where the wife is exerting violence against the children. Of course, most women are exposed to violence, but there are also men. And we have to remember that. Otherwise, the representative Woldseth had some comments that we should not stigmatise those who have been subjected to domestic violence. This applies to both children, women and men. From our point of view, there is a danger with any debate of this kind. That's why we have to be particularly careful when we talk about these, and we also have to be very careful about what we have from this pulpit.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-21.ana.ud1836e493	I just have to use the opportunity to say that I am really disappointed in how the Progress Party has performed here in the Chamber. Otherwise, not least with regard to the immigrant population, where there is no desire to nuance at all, a role has been played in this matter. Here it's really important to be careful, so you don't get bored in the salad. For example, in relation to the representative Karin S. Woldseth, who I am perhaps most disappointed with, since I do not expect much more from the representative Ulf Erik Knudsen, I believe that in many ways she hangs the bell on the cat. I believe that the reason so many children have to suffer from continued indifference and reluctance to see has to do with the attitudes expressed by the representative Woldseth in the Chamber. To call knowledge we actually have about the damage these children very often get to live under the conditions that many call patriarchal terrorism – which is a huge burden, which is documented in research, and which you can learn only by visiting these children's seas or adults who have lived under these conditions – and how they experience, because stigmatizing is absolutely incredible. I believe that this leads to one not being allowed to intervene. But it goes into the sequence of how the Progress Party otherwise relates to research and knowledge, including for example. in the case of alcohol. You put on the skyscrapers, you refuse to see the realities in your eyes and you walk forward like before. So it's not for the best of these kids either. At least I can confirm that. Then it's also called stigmatizing to say that many people in the auxiliaries and the judiciary actually don't have the necessary knowledge of what it means for children to grow up with violence in the family. Yeah, but it's just asking people who work in the relief and legal system. They're screaming for knowledge. They're asking us to make sure they get more knowledge so they can intervene before. So I really don't understand this need to lean back and ask for more nuances all the way. Of course, it's the way women also use violence. Of course, it is so that even women commit an assault on their children. But 90 pst. So by those who do, they're men. It may be hard to see the reality in your eyes, but it's actually like that. Fortunately, many here in the Chamber do not have the same patience as the Progress Party, and indeed the Right, has shown. I'm very happy about that. There are many here who have understood how important it is to address this, not least our own Minister of Justice. I believe that we must now act to a much greater extent than we have now. We must take the situation of these children much more seriously than the Progress Party is willing to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-21.ana.ud1836e506	The request was accepted and understood. This is a theme that the Government is working on, but that we want to add further clicks on. At the end of the debate, I would like to say that I believe that most of us will admit that we will face some perhaps unpleasant choices when we are going to raise this field, because it is rocking by some of our own positions. Some have called the pre-existing attitudes. I believe that the greatest preconceived attitude to this issue is underestimating its scope. There is also a premise, in my opinion, that men have not much more placed themselves in this position and taken the responsibility that men obviously have to take. It is quite obvious that both women and men are subjected to violence. But the figures we have show that the dominance of men who beat is so enormous that any problematization of the gender perspective in this should not lead to deceiving measures that are clearly addressed to us men. In fact, I also believe that it might be time for precisely men to go much more politically into these issues as well. So to the question from the representative Andersen about the two-track system that I tried to describe in my main response. It's obvious that we need to have more tracks in relation to how we handle things about children. It should not be the case that child protection should deal with conflicts between parents where, for example: disagrees with the location of the child's permanent residence, with regard to the nature of the association or with regard to its content. We will have to have two systems that can handle a lot of the same standards in relation to, for example, The child's best. The question here is to what extent to have cross-cutting points, where, if necessary, child protection should address what is really the issue of the more ordinary legal system and not the respondents. There we have said that this is a challenge. This is problematic. It is not easy to give immediate answers to this, but we will, as I said in my main response, consider measures on that issue as well. Although there are two systems, this does not mean that you cannot show good support on the part of child protection, provide ‘support’ and, to this extent, be a helper for, for example: Mother, in these matters. They can help clarify matters in which you can see that things are going wrong. That's where I think they might have the potential to do something more. Finally, I would like to say that the most unpleasant thing we will be confronted with in the discussion of violence against children and violence against women is the preventive perspective. In particular, the question of getting this into focus, of getting an auxiliaries for those who hit, and not least the representative Molvær Grimstad and others involved, the question of drug policy. It is quite obvious that with some parties' drug policies in this Chamber in relation to, for example, alcohol questions, would include, inter alia: violence against children grows difficult if you get into their line. There's a big challenge for all of us, especially as we approach Christmas.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-21.ana.ud1836e526	The interpellant debate is therefore closed. The President will draw attention to the fact that in a so-called incurrency, Kenneth Svendsen was not elected as president at the beginning of today's meeting. Kenneth Svendsen has nevertheless presided, and the president expects to have the Stortinget's approval in retrospect that Kenneth Svendsen has presided at the Stortinget meeting today. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-21.ana.ud1836e558	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word under Section 37(a) of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
