ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e24	The called alternate of the Aust-Agder County, Kjell Ingolf Ropstad, has taken the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e33	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Per Ove Width. – Other proposals are not available, and Per Ove Width is unanimously elected as chairman of the Stortinget meeting today. The representative, Jan Tore Sanner, will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e42	On behalf of the big business representatives Ulf Leirstein, Hans Olav Syversen, Lars Sponheim and myself, I would like to propose the establishment of a simplified regulatory framework for small limited liability companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e47	The representative, Robert Eriksson, will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e50	On behalf of the representatives of Kenneth Svendsen, Kari Kjønaas Kjos, Siv Jensen, Harald T. Nesvik and myself, I would like to make proposals to reward those who wish to contribute their labour force after the age of 67, so that the pension earned is not cut off against labour income.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e55	The representative Borghild Tende will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e58	On behalf of the representatives of Lars Sponheim, Gunnar Kvassheim and myself, I have the honour to make proposals to exempt bioethanol, biogasoline, to fuel targets for charges similar to biodiesel.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e64	The representative of Torbjørn Hansen will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e67	I would like to make proposals on behalf of the big business representatives Jan Tore Sanner, Petter Løvik, Bent Höie and myself on rules that ensure a level playing field between public and private companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e72	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e96	On Monday, the Storting received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following government councils will meet for oral Question Time: City Council Åslaug HagaState Council Sylvia BrustadState Council Helga Pedersen The announced members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, would like to ask questions of substance. – We then start with the first main questions, from the representative of Inge Wohnning.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e115	In the newspaper just a week ago, Minister of Health Sylvia Brustad said that she was upset about the care of the elderly in the municipality of Oslo. She also states that she is provoked that Carl I. Hagen denies the political responsibility for the situation in Oslo. In the state council's own home state of Hedmark, the Health Authority has found a number of serious deficiencies in the care and care service. I'll be careful with one example. A report on the supervision of the Labour Party controlled municipality of Elverum states that there is no system in place to ensure that the basic needs of the users are met. Persons entitled to a health care centre are unduly refused because of a lack of capacity. Some users are not allowed to meet their demands for a normal daily rhythm and social contact. The local authority does not have procedures for cooperation with the local authority on patients. The Norwegian Pensioners’ Association in Hedmark County has just submitted a brand fresh report, in which 830 relatives at 40 hospitals in the county have given their assessment of the health home offer. The report provides a number of scare examples from the relatives, including: points out that older people only get a shower every fourteen days. In a 2006 report, the Health Inspectorate pointed out that the offer to individual users is so poor that it has to be characterised as irresponsible. Does this mean that the Council of State takes the time to be upset by the serious deficiencies that her own supervisory authority has revealed in the care of the elderly in worker party-driven municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e128	I can assure the representative that I am equally upset by obvious shortcomings in the care of the elderly or others who need care, whether it is directed by one party or another. I take most seriously what the Health Authority has pointed out in the examples that have been referred to, but unfortunately there are many more examples. However, I would like to say that it is consistently so that we have good care in our country, but unfortunately there are too many examples of the opposite. There's something called attack is the best defense. I understand why Wage chooses the angle of incidence he does, because wages belong to the Right, which, together with the Advance Party, has run Oslo for many years. There are many examples in this city of what I think is too poor care for the elderly. With regard to the specific case referred to here, which the Newspaper has focused on lately, there are too many, including in this city, who are getting too poor services compared to what they should have. When it's so that people can't go, almost can't lift their arms, are almost blind and deaf, they actually deserve room in the nursing home and help from the public. When the opposite is the case, I think it's critical. I also believe that either one belongs to one or the other party – in this case it was the Progress Party it was going on – one must actually take responsibility for the policy pursued in the municipality of which one governs, and not owe it to the system, as Carl I. Hagen did in this case. Because it is a fact that Oslo has been run, among other things. by the Progress Party since 1997, and it is also the Progress Party which has the City Councils in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e141	I'm a little in doubt if there's any reason to thank the Council of State for the answer, because there was really no answer. Instead, it was a repetition of the occasions when the Council of State never fails to throw itself at arbitrary and misleading media postings, while she sees no reason to follow up serious reports from her own professional body, for which she herself is responsible the Council of State. I find that difficult to reconcile with the role of the Council of State. It is well compatible with the role of party politicians, but it is difficult to reconcile with the role of the Council of State. The Minister of Health and Welfare in Norway has the overall responsibility for all that is happening in the care and care sector, and is like the conductor of an orchestra, where many are going to play. It doesn't create a good mood in Kommune-Norway, I think, if the Council of State will continue to hang on to random media games where it fits party policy purposes, while she doesn't follow up her responsibilities as the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e150	There are rather dry claims that come here from the representative Wage. I just have to say that wages cannot possibly know what I am doing in my daily work, both day and night, in terms of this important sector. I will immediately reject the claim that I do not seriously follow up on the reports from the State Health Authority. That's the opposite that's the case. I spend a lot of my working time trying to correct many of the shortcomings that are in several municipalities, whether they are managed by one or the other party – just let it be clear. And it's not random, or so I just rely on what's being said in the media; we strongly support what's coming from our health services. This government is taking this very seriously. One reason that there has been too poor an offer to the elderly and the sick in this country is that there has been a long-term starvation of the municipalities. In fact, the representative of the Party of Wages must also bear responsibility for that, a party that has just had representatives in government, only five months ago. That is why we have already started a step up towards the municipalities, so that they are better able to do an even better job for the elderly and others who need care and care. That's absolutely necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e159	The President will allow four follow-up questions on this issue, which is essential – first Vigdis Giltun.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e162	I would like to ask Sylvia Brustad a follow-up question. There has been strong criticism of Oslo and the care of the elderly there, but unfortunately this also applies to a lot of other municipalities, not least in Eastfold, where all the cities are run by the workers' party. So it doesn't help much to blame one municipality or another. We see that the municipalities have not followed up the intention of 25 pst. the level of coverage in the case of institutions or day-old care homes, and there is also too little provision for residents. When taxes on property are to be introduced or increased, the elderly are used – they are pushed ahead, and cuts in the care of the elderly are threatened. This is unworthy. It's about how care for the elderly is financed. How will the Council of State ensure that older people receive a good and equivalent offer throughout the country with the current form of funding?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e175	We had a meeting last night between all the political parties in my office. I think that was a very positive meeting. The party of progress was also represented. We agreed that care for the elderly is too important a policy area for us to be able to operate with too much party political tactics. There are some areas of old age policy that we disagree on, but I think it's very much that we can also agree on, for the benefit of the elderly. I think there was a lot of constructive input in the meeting we had yesterday, which we are going to follow up on the matter we are going to present to the Stortinget in June. That's how we have to do a lot in many areas. The most important thing now is to make sure that we get a better quality of the services we offer to our elderly people, whether they live at home, in nursing homes or in nursing homes. Then it's also absolutely essential that we manage to get more employees who have enough time to take care of those who need help, time for what they actually need help for. It is therefore this government's clear objective that, during this four-year period, we should have 10,000 more annual works into this important sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e183	Dagfinn Højbråten – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e186	We have a successful commitment to the development of nursing homes and homes. We have a lot of unmet needs ahead of us, and we have a challenge in getting more quality into the care of the elderly, more doctors, nurses and caregivers who understand the diseases of the elderly and who can provide even better care. We need to bet more on relieving treatment. I think there is reason to give the Council of State credit for the initiative she has taken in cross-political cooperation on an older reform II, as the Christian People's Party has asked. At the same time, it would be useful for that process if we avoided the kind of party political games that we've had in progress here today. I think the process is worth it. My question to the Council of State is whether she, when she comes with this older reform II to the Stortinget, will come up with an obliging plan of money, or whether she will make enough investigation. It is, of course, the question that I would strongly recommend that a binding action plan be drawn up in relation to the challenges I have mentioned.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e195	Firstly, I would like to return the praise to the representative, Mr Højbräten, who I believe has taken a very commendable view of this important policy area and of cooperation in this area. I'm very happy about that. My ambition and that of the Government is that when we bring this matter to the Spring Storting, it should be as concrete as possible. Of course, we need to address ourselves and describe both the challenge of today’s elderly care and younger users under the age of 67, who are growing, and what is the situation in the future. But then there's a point, which I totally agree with the Hojbråtn in, that we have to try to be as concrete as possible, which obliges us all. I'm very happy if it's possible to come up with a settlement in such an important policy area that we can lift in teams, because I don't think any of the parties have any monopoly on what is the truth, and some of these things are too important to argue about.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e202	Odd Einar Dørum – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e205	After the opening round here, I expect the Council of State, with the same price and obvious commitment, to put down everything that she perceives as unfair, regardless of the name of the party and the name of the independent municipality. As an observer of Norwegian citizens, I will do my part in observing it. My question is in the follow-up to the Council of State's commitment – that she takes responsibility, and I believe that. She rightly points out that we need labour, people who can set up when older people are going to have as good a life as possible, because they need help. Therefore, my question becomes to the Council of State: What will she do as a member of the government to take that responsibility for training professionals? We know, for example. the budget for the current year was cut in private colleges, simply because it was called ‘private’. At Lovisenberg Hospital in Oslo, one of the oldest educational institutions in Norway, training of geriatric nurses has been cut. Will the Council of State take responsibility for these cuts being corrected, so that we get the professionals we need, and so that institutions that train good people are taken not only because they bear the title 'private', but that they say that people are what we need, no matter where they are trained?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e212	The government is prepared to take the responsibility we have to contribute to ensuring the necessary number of employees we need in this important sector. Then, as the representative Dørum says, we both have to make sure that we train more at all levels, and we also have to make sure that we further educate some of the people we already have in the sector, who do an excellent job. But in view of the fact that there are more people with more complex disorders, more chronic diseases, it is necessary to gain even more competence. That is why we also need to develop further. We also have to try to get back some of those who have disappeared into other professions, get them back and tell them that these are actually interesting, exciting and fun jobs. And then we also have to make sure that some of those that are now being pushed out – even at my age, and I haven't reached the age of 40 – that can contribute something, but that can't contribute 100 pst., also get a place, i.e. the inclusive working life. We have to start with the counseling service at school. I was recently visiting the auxiliary care line at Sandaker High School, or what is now becoming the trades union line. What they said was that the counselling service had hardly mentioned them, and the guys who went there were almost ridiculed because they went there. So we're working across a wide field, so the representative Dørum has to be safe.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e223	Harald T. Nesvik – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e226	In the context of a number of debates, the Council of State itself has addressed issues related to Oslo and the rest of the country. The Council of State itself has taken a step in the right direction by saying that every time something relating to Oslo has come up, one has been very high on the track and criticised that piece, while one sees many, many examples that in places around the country where the Council of State's own party sits in power, it's fairly quiet on the part of the Council of State. But I'll leave it, and just say that's it. My question to the Council of State is as follows: for a number of years we have tried to transfer funds only to the municipalities and have informed them that they are responsible for the care of the elderly. You haven't looked at the system itself, and there's no sign that you want to do that. In the context of the forthcoming communication, will the Council of State ensure that the way of financing care is also assessed, that it is the legal right of the user to be at the centre, that the money follows the user to the institution you choose? Or will the Council of State continue with a policy that has not worked in recent years – at the same rate?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e233	Firstly, I hope that the Progress Party will also contribute constructively to a promise that is for the benefit of the elderly, and then we recognise that in some areas we disagree. I believe that the representative Nesvik is wrong when it is claimed that this year's councils have received NOK 5.7 billion more from this government, it has not been used for the elderly. What we know so far is that a lot of the money has been spent on the elderly around the municipalities. It's because there's a lot of people around the municipalities who have a lot of sense, and I think the sense is pretty much the same. In the matter that comes to Stortinget, we're going to go through and look at what we actually have to do to ensure that older people and others who need it get more help for care and care. With regard to the concrete and the way in which it is financed, this government and the Progress Party disagree. We have no faith that the State will take over the financial responsibility, give a check to them, and then the elderly themselves will go out and shop for an offer in the market. We think it's going to lead to a lot of bureaucracy. We need people out in the field, in the ministry, to help those who need it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e242	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e245	I want to ask a question to the Minister of Health and Care. For a long time now, we have seen new and ominous signals from regional health businesses, and not least from the regular health companies, the individual hospital. We are now seeing ongoing proposals for cuts. We've seen it in the media related to St. Olav's Hospital in Trondheim. We see that, among other things, considering shutting down their cochlea implant operations. We see threats of redundancy in a number of hospitals. We've seen it in the case of Haukeland, which is considering shutting down a department every Friday because there's no money to do operations. We see a whole bunch of things. In addition, we now see that sick leave in many hospital wards is sky high. In other words, the ever-new problems that arise now go beyond patient treatment. This means that there is not enough funding to allow regional health businesses to maintain the level from last year, and at least not to be able to increase and provide more sick people with an offer in the oil nation of Norway. My question to the Council of State is: will the Council of State now guarantee that there will be a significant increase in the funding of firms in the context of the revised national budget so that they can now start planning their activities better? Furthermore, will the Council of State ensure that depreciation rules and replacement value, i.e. the opening balance sheet of enterprises, are put in place in the revised national budget, so that hospitals and businesses know what they have to do with being able to invest in the future? Or will the Council of State just let this scour and go and not give any signals now, so that we get an even greater uncertainty in the population, even greater problems, threats of the closure of departments and redundancies, which in turn will lead to increased sick leave and poorer offers to patients?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e255	Norway has one of the best health services in the world, and we will continue to have that. This government has been responsible for five months. Based on previous experience from the social committee in this house, I know that at this time of year there are lots of suggestions because there are internal budgetary processes in hospitals, so you also have to have some ice in your stomach. I do not believe that there are demanding situations in many of our hospitals. That's exactly why the party I belong to, over many years in Stortinget, has given more money to hospitals. That's why this government already after a few weeks after it took over, it opened up 500 million. More to the hospitals for the current year, so that we can treat well 20,000 more patients than was foreseen with Bondevik's draft budget. So this government has already said that the increased pension costs that hospitals have of about NOK 1 billion, we're taking out of the balance sheet requirement, so that it doesn't have to be more efficient than NOK 1 billion. It would mean further challenging situations. So it's the Stortinget, including the representative Nesvik, who has instructed all regional health companies to balance this year. It's a decision I take with the greatest seriousness, and that I'm trying to make. Clearly, this is not a simple decision. I could otherwise say, there's going to be more money for hospitals. We are working to correct the investment regime, and we are aiming at correcting the imbalance between the regions – in particular Health West and Health Mid-Norway. The representative Nesvik is so experienced in politics that he knows I can't say now when we bring it, but we'll bring it up at some point.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e268	The problem of not sending signals until a later date is that there will still be uncertainty in the population and in hospitals, and there will be new proposals for cuts and major problems in the individual departments, which do not know what to do with them. Governments indicate that so much more money is allocated to hospitals. Yes, it was taken back with the other hand then, by introducing a new component of physiotherapy. That's why you took in 250 million. NOK only there, and charged patients with an extra cost at that point. It's important that we give signals, just to make the business calm, just so that patients know what they're dealing with. What the Council of State does not say in its reply to me about businesses is that, after all, the funding system was also changed in the New Year. Now we actually see that the queues are increasing, patients are getting a worse offer, we see a great uncertainty. Is the Council of State really comfortable with the signals we are now receiving in Stortinget that there is a threat of cancellation and termination of offers?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e277	There is a difficult situation in several of our hospitals – I am the first one to admit it. That's also why I spend a very large part of my working time trying to do something about it. It's about money, and there's more money. But it's also that we know the hospitals where we haven't had enough cost control, we have to get it. Now I do not have the right to answer questions, but it might have been tempting to find out whether the Progress Party believes that one should not meet the balance sheet requirement that the Storting has adopted. If so, there will be new signals. Then I also want to say that money is of course crucial in the hospital sector. But money isn't everything. Let me use psychiatry as an example. So every psychiatry therapist treats an average of 1.8 patients per person. day(s) If we just manage to get them to treat two patients per. Day, we can take away more than 3,500 per. years. Money is important, but money is not everything. We also have to make sure that we spend the money and the excellent staff we have at our disposal, in a better way than we do today.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e286	Here too, the President will accept four follow-up questions – first, Børge Brende.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e289	It's a serious situation at St. Olav's Hospital in central Norway. Several bed beds are to be closed and health cows will increase. This is in stark contrast to what the red-greens promised in the election campaign. The current Councils of State, Giske and Djupedal, said to the Address Paper on 6 September following an election meeting in which I myself was present, the following: ‘The Red-Green Alliance partners reiterated yesterday their crystal-clear guarantees for psychiatric centers as well as cut-off and state funding support.’ I then asked if this was clear with the party management? Yes, the guaranteed guess. Only the red-greens came into government, all the challenges for St. Olav's Hospital were to be solved, and there would be more money. Now the situation is tougher than ever. The health queues are increasing. Arent M. Henriksen, the director, goes out and says he's shaken over Brustad, and asks them to retrieve the manuscripts from the election campaign and fulfill the promises. When will the Brustad Government Council bring money to avoid increasing health cows?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e301	I dare remember that it is only five months since Børge Burnde was in a government that was also responsible for St. Olav's Hospital. I've got an inheritance that's quite arduously attached to St. Olav's Hospital, which is and is going to be a very good hospital when it's completed. So what did St. Olav's Hospital and this region get? Firstly, Health Mid-Norway has received DKK 4.4 billion in addition to normal circumstances. After two months in the chair, this government gave them an extra SEK 2.9 billion to complete phase 1. Something like that didn't do the previous government. We have also made sure that they have received a lasting increase in order to also complete phase 2 within the framework of the health region that they believe is right and that is worth approx. Three billion kroner. We also did that two months after we took over. Something similar did not do the previous government of which Børge Burnde was part. I just have to say that in this case I do not have a bad conscience! We have delivered, and we have delivered much faster than the government Børge Brende was a member of. It is also true that if the budget proposal submitted by the government had been adopted, it would have been 260 million. kr less each year for this region.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e310	Hans Olav Syversen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e313	It may well be that it is not primarily the comparison with the previous government that becomes the problem for the Brustad Council. What she is confronted with is that her party traps in the campaign country and beach around have promised that everyone who needs treatment in a given place will get it. We have also seen examples of the state council being prepared to intervene when she thinks it is necessary. My question, then, is this: before we have a revised budget, is the Council willing to intervene with healthcare companies that intend to reduce treatment provision on which large groups of the population depend?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e320	We have carried out meetings with the management of the different health regions to ensure that the changes they have to make as a result of the Storting decision do not significantly exceed the patient's offer. Of course, all people in Norway who need treatment should have it as soon as possible. That's the whole point of working in this sector. For some hospitals there are now tougher times than for others. I am aware that there are several things, including money, that I am, of course, working to get more out of. We have appointed new regional health business boards, as the representative is aware, and in a short time local health business boards will also be appointed. I feel confident that all of this together will help us get a better system than we have today. It's a challenge. We're working on that day and night to make it even better, and we can make sure people get the help they need.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e329	Gunvald Ludvigsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e332	At the hearing of the Health and Welfare Committee on 8 March of this year, the Council of State said that it maintains the requirement for healthcare professionals to achieve a financial balance in 2006. At the same time, we see that several health professionals are struggling with the economy and have to cut the supply to their patients in order to meet the balance sheet requirement. I just read that the director of the Helgeland Hospital says that one cannot meet the balance requirement without cutting into key functions that rock at the very foundation of the local hospital. How does this correspond to Soria Moria's promise that the Government will maintain a decentralised hospital service, and the promise that no local hospital will be laid down?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e342	The balance sheet requirement adopted by the Stortinget is demanding for many hospitals. But I, as the Council of State, have an obligation to carry out what the Storting has decided, and that is what we are now trying to do. Obviously, it has some unfortunate rashes. There's no doubt about it. As far as local hospitals are concerned, the Soria Moria Declaration clearly states that they should be maintained. We're not going to lay down a local hospital, and it's stuck. Then we look at – and there's a matter for Stortinget about it – what local hospitals should do. I am enough of the opinion that part of our local hospital should do more, for example. in relation to older people with more complex disorders, so that's also something we work with. It is demanding, but I work to implement what the Storting has decided, and then we also work to ensure that this sector will of course get money in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e351	Jan-Henrik Fredriksen – the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e354	It seems that there is a common practice for the Council of State to answer questions with new questions, and that is sad. What is the situation in Health-Norway? The Health Hospital says that the balance sheet requirement cannot be met. Hålogaland Hospital Health companies need additional manning reduction and it may be appropriate to reduce by 20 jobs at Harstad Hospital. At the surgical department of Haukeland University Hospital, the number of interventions has been cut because of lack of money. Health South has an unsolved EUR 158 million challenge. kr. There is a full dispute in Health Finnmark about where orthopaedics and surgery should lie, because of too little means. The Rikshospitalet – Radium Hospital HF may receive nearly 90 million. kr to balance. Today's situation is demoralising, and sick leave is increasing among health workers, and then health East and Health Mid-Norway, which have the biggest problems, is not mentioned. Is the Council satisfied with today's situation, which clearly reveals uncertainty for patients and employees, or does it agree with the Progress Party that the under-financing of enterprises is real and a consequence of last year's budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e367	I repeat that there is a difficult situation in many of our hospitals. But then I also ask that you have some ice in your stomach – at least I have to have it – compared to the fact that there are processes around the regional governments and you have to decide where to save and what to spend money on. Then there are also some things that are not at all – fortunately, I would say – going to be a reality when these processes are finished. I believe that when we get all the new boards in place, when we get better control at a part of the hospitals where there is not enough cost control, and when we get more money in place and manage to spend our people the best possible way for the patients, this will go better. We haven't been able to solve this in five months, but we're on, and we're going to do the best we can.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e374	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e377	My question goes to the Minister of Health: Just over two years ago, the law on the medical use of biotechnology was adopted here in Stortinget. The objective paragraph states that the purpose of this law is to ensure that the medical use of biotechnology is used for the benefit of people in a society where there is room for all. He establishes respect for human dignity, human rights and personal integrity, and rejects discrimination on the basis of legacy facilities. The government has now announced that they will weaken this law. First, one opens to test a fertilized genetic egg. The aim may be to prevent a child with a more or less serious illness from being born. The purpose may also be to create a rescue shower or a donor child that can deliver tissues or organs to a sick brother or sister. For the Christian People's Party, it is important that all children are wanted by themselves, and not just as a means for another human being. Such a quest for hereditary properties of a fertilized egg also suggested that the government opens up to research into unborn life. The Christian People's Party believes that the Government can thus reduce the germinal life to an instrument. Then it is the human dignity itself that meets the winds. So there are serious and fundamental questions we are talking about, and the work of the Government should, in the opinion of the Christian People's Party, be influenced by it. The subject of biotechnology, which is the government's most important adviser in the field, even suggests that they have not had time to deal with the issue in a defensive way. The Christian People's Party of my State Councils is running into this matter. On other major issues, such as the relationship between state and church and regional forms, the government announces that they will use good time and listen carefully before concluding. This question is far more serious. It is about respect for human dignity and human life. Can the Council of State explain to the Council what is involved in this matter, which makes it possible to set as high a pace as the Council of State here?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e396	I do not want to go into the content of the matter today, except to repeat what we have said in the Soria Moria statement, namely that we should allow research on surplus fertilised eggs and a limited use of preimplantation diagnostics, i.e. PGD. That's what I'm working on on behalf of the Government now. We will send a proposal to the hearing in a very short time. The period of consultation shall be three months. We've been working on this since we took over five months ago. People will have ample opportunity to think about it before we conclude, and before the matter comes here to Stortinget. Then I just have to refute what is said about the director of the biotechnology topic, Sissel Rogne. I stand here with an e-mail that I have received from her. It says, among other things.It has been a very good process, and I have nothing to complain about. So it's not like the government here is running rough, but it's been an effective and good process. We need to have a democratic process on which everyone should be heard before it is concluded, and before the matter comes to Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e405	I thank the Council of State for the answer, but it is not just a Christian People's Party that has responded that this matter is being produced as an expression. There have been several media essays in which the subject of biotechnology says they didn't get the chance to finish one of the most combustible topics when they met, and that the members of the denominator were content to send emails to each other to present their vision in such an important question about help or donor children. The vice-leader in the name must have stated that they were given such a short period that it has crossed the stick and stone, while the leader of the secretariat says that he cannot understand why this should go so quickly. Also, the government party’s representatives in the media said that they are insecure the second week, and that this matter is so difficult that there is no reason to rush. How do these voices get heard in this process?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e410	All voices will be heard. I would like to quote Sissel Rogne, head of the Biotechnology Study, who says, "As far as the VG quote is concerned, as I said, I am completely incomprehensible to this." So it's not the impression that's been attached, that the subject of biotechnology thinks this has gone too fast – and it should just be missing. We've had a real and proper process. We're also going to have to keep going. I have to ask to come back to the content when we present it. But I can assure the representative that it will be public in a very short time.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e419	There will be three follow-up questions – first Vigdis Giltun.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e422	I would like to ask a follow-up question to the Council of State Brustad. I myself participated in a couple of consultation conferences organised by the Biotechnology Study. There were very good conferences, where there was a clear desire to have a rapid revision. Existing law is not good. It was also clear from everyone except the Christian People's Party representative that this was urgent. It is important to get on the ground in research, including for Norwegian researchers. It is important to be able to help parents who have sick children. It is also important to be able to look at the possibilities that this offers to help people with serious illnesses to be cured differently from what is happening today. The Progress Party believes it is important to have that revision as soon as possible. I hope that the Council of State can ensure that there are no delays due to any disagreements in the Government or any other way, so that this can be started and processed as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e434	I can assure the representative Giltun that we are working properly and carefully on this and have democratic processes. We're going to send it to the hearing in a very short time, with a three-month consultation period. When it is done, the Storting will get the case. I fully agree with the representative that there are opportunities to help some people with serious disorders, including: That's why there's no reason to wait a long time for this, but we're going to do it in a real and democratic way. That's what we're doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e441	Governments were injured to misinform the Storting instead. She said the director of the Biotechnology Study is Sissel Rogne. The head of the Biotechnology project is Lars Ødegård. The Council of State should know that. Now, it is essential in this case that the revision of the Biotechnology Act can bring together the widest possible support in the Storting, because if any case is not suitable for throwing ball between changing majority from growing period to growing period, this is the case. Last time the Stortinge dealt with this, towards the end of the last enlargement period, it became a majority for a compromise decision that did not really reflect the real political majority of the Storinge. At that time, two of the three current government parties opposed what was actually being driven by the Progress Party and the Workers' Party together. Is the Council of State prepared to do such a solid foundation work that there can be a broad political consensus in the Storting on this matter, or will she run it forward as a controversial matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e448	The government is going to present what we think is right, and it says in the Soria Moria statement. Within that, of course, there are details that we have to look at. We're working on that. I'm not rushing out anything. It is a little strange to be criticized for effective treatment. In most cases, it's the opposite of being criticized for taking too much time. I'm going to take all the criticism I might have, but I guess I honestly think this is a little unfair. When the case is put to consultation with three months – which is quite common – one may see that it is a democratic process. Otherwise, the representative is the pay expert on – yes...
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e457	Now I'm excited, President!
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e462	I would like to make it clear that Sissel Rogne is the one quoted on behalf of the Department of Biotechnology in various newspapers. Therefore, I would like to refute that she should have thought that this was too fast and too fast a process. I stand here with an e-mail from her that rejects it. That was the point.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e467	Anne Margrethe Larsen – to the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e470	The left considers that there must always be strict ethical requirements and considerations on the basis of which new medical technology is applied. It is necessary to facilitate full transparency and a continuing societal debate on where to go. The fact that this debate is being taken here in the Storting in full openness and not in the Chamber of Government is a prerequisite for a new social debate. Socialist Left Party Olav Gunnar Ballo does not support the decoration of the Biotechnology Act, while the Minister of Health and Care has no visible concerns about the proposal. But we have not yet received a debate on this law. The left calls for this debate. Will the Council of State take this matter behind closed doors until the Government has reached an agreement, or take it in full public?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e477	It's quite common for the government to decide what you want, before you discuss it in full transparency, and we'll do that in this case as well. I can assure you once again that the Government's view will appear in a very short time, and then of course it will be a very open debate. There has also been open debate until now through the subject of biotechnology and others, and it is affordable. Then there'll be a hearing, and then the Storting will have to say its own, and that's of course the Big Thing that decides on the seventh and the last.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e482	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e485	I would like to ask the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs about the process and content of the regional reform announced by the Government in 2010. The Soria Moria Declaration has stated that the reform will come, but says little or no about its content, whether it relates to the size of the regions or to what tasks should be right in these regions. Yesterday, I attended the debate in the County Committee in More and Romesdal, and since politicians have few signs of how and what, there was a as confusing debate as that of regional reform in recent years. State Secretary Inge Bartnes has said that any merger of county municipalities into larger regions should be voluntary, which causes the Municipal Report to conclude that ‘this was the case’ – on the whole reform. And even the state council has said that she should go on a skid while state politicians find out where the boundaries are going. Others in the government party will decide on new, larger, centralized regions. This is confusing. For the Left, local democracy is a pillar of our people's rule. We want the decisions as far down the system as possible, and here I actually believe that the Left and the Center are pretty close to each other. It might be interesting to know if the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs has looked at what tasks you can move down to the primary municipalities and to the new regions. My main question to the Council of State is then: Does the Government have a plan for how this reform should be governed, or is everything as uncertain as it has been before? Is everything in blue when it comes to tasks and size?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e498	I can assure the representative Gerde that the government has a plan, and it's very good. With regard to the regional reform — or the administrative reform, which is the correct term — we initially have a three-fold objective. Administrative reform will contribute to more democracy, it will contribute to decentralisation, and it will help us to make greater use of local advantages. I believe, as the representative pointed out, that there are objectives that the Left too will be very pleased that we have defined. It's interesting that the Left didn't get done with this in the four years that they put in government. Now there is a government that aims to get the administrative reform in place. We're going to define the regional level. We will have things operational from 1 January 2010, as it says in the Soria Moria Declaration. We're now in a process where we define the problems. A notice shall be submitted to the Stortinget for the autumn and the representative shall receive a final answer as to what tasks we consider to be transferred from state to regional level, and, where appropriate, what tasks we see for ourselves to be assigned to the municipalities. Now let's do the problems first, and then we'll look at the geography. That's the only way to get ashore. We have had nine hearings around the country, and there we have received broad agreement that this is the process that must be underpinned. In terms of geography, we're going to get there at some point. I can assure you that we will take volunteering as a starting point. It would be pointless if the government were just to cut through across the people's will. But if you don't agree locally on how the regional breakdown is going to be, then you have to be absolutely sure that the government will as well as the ability to cut through and define what to the seventh and last will become the final boundaries – and then the Storting will deal with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e508	I thank you for your answer. The left, as pointed out by the Council of State, has not taken a position on what kind of regional level Norway should have in the future. We would first have an evaluation of the trials that have been started. For my part, I thought it was promising with the single-member attempt to merge the county council and County Council, which More and Romesdal have tried. It has actually made life easier both for the municipality and for private people who are going to deal with the county municipality and the county. But now the Council of State says that one should decentralize tasks, and many, including central party politicians, claim that without including hospitals in such a reform, new regions will not have any meaning. Does the Council agree that hospitals should come at county or regional level?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e517	We're now in the middle of a process of defining which problems are to be moved. I am challenged every day to say something concrete about what tasks I think should be moved. If I now started going into individual sectors and saying my heart's opinion about them, we would be in a very difficult situation. Now we listen to municipalities, we listen to counties, we listen to employees, and we listen to business organisations. Then we come to a time when we have to make the final decisions, and what I can say about tasks, is that both the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party have great ambitions in their programs in terms of what can be moved. The details of this are given for the autumn, when the gross notification is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e522	The President will accept three follow-up questions – first Ib Thomsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e525	I've heard someone say in the past that they have a plan. It was the Olsen band, and they didn't always succeed in their plans. This strengthening of the municipalities was a central point during the election campaign, and it's probably also in the Soria Moria declaration. There's nothing to strengthen the county and the regions. I don't think anyone will go on a torch to create regions, but I think people will go on a torch because they want to strengthen their own municipality. The Danes have done it with two levels. They've managed to strengthen the municipalities. I did not hear the council say what should be taken from the municipality, and what should be added. Can I get an answer to that question? Then, in conclusion, I would like to propose that the Council of State use the gain by not establishing regions and putting down county municipalities to strengthen local democracy.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e534	It is a fact that there is disagreement in the United Kingdom as to whether two or three levels of government should be in Norway. The government is clearly of the opinion that there should be three levels of government. That's a choice we've made, and that's, among other things. to prevent unnecessary red tape at an intermediate level, which has been achieved by all countries that have tried two levels. So the government has decided that there will be three levels of government. The process may show that we are able to carry out some new tasks in the municipalities, but the fact that we choose three levels of government is also that there will be no massive transfer of tasks to the municipalities. That doesn't mean we don't need to strengthen the municipalities. We do that every day now by adding more finances to the municipalities, we do it every day by helping to increase the room for action. We do not do what would really take action from the municipalities, namely to run price financing, check policy, as the Progress Party wants.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e541	Kari Lise Holmberg – for follow-up questions
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e544	I am aware that the Council of State has announced that the county elections in 2007 will go as planned, but in the case of the county or new regions, there will be a new election after two years. This bears the mark of haste. It is clear that the Government internally disagrees on the content, on the division of tasks. It also becomes clearer and clearer that the municipalities themselves, the politicians and the leaders, want the municipalities to have more tasks. In a management panel consisting of 200 conductors, there are 88 pst. who want the municipality to have more tasks. So the Council of State has set a very tight timetable with a big message in the middle of the state budget treatment for the autumn. You might have to wait with final treatment for spring. Then comes a new decision in relation to the boundaries. With all the uncertainties that reflect, with all the disagreement that it seems to be, isn't this too fast? Isn't this an undemocratic mess?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e551	The government has set up a broad democratic process linked to the administrative reform. That's why we're now using a lot of energy to listen to people, both in municipalities, in counties and in many other contexts, including non-governmental organisations and employee organisations. Hastings? Yes, we're in a hurry, because we want things done. Now we've been through many, many years where we haven't been able to figure out what kind of intermediate level we're going to have in Norway, what the content of the counties/regions should be. We have a lot of basic documentation. The problem has been that no one has cut through. The previous government had no idea about this and let things scour and go. The investigations are there, we have an excellent basis for making decisions. Now we're running the process, and we're going to cut through and get this well in place within the time frames that we've defined. It's not about anything rough that's going to go on democracy, it's about having the will and the ability to cut through and get things done.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e558	Last follow-up questions – Bjørg Tørresdal.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e561	The Christian People's Party agrees with the intentions of the governance reform. We want larger and stronger regions under popular governance. But there's one thing there's been a lot of focus lately, and that's the process. I could have said a lot about it, but I'm going to leave it down and focus on the purpose of the reform. What should the change mean for the individual population? How are most people going to notice this big administrative reform, or the change, that's going to take place? How does one imagine that this is going to work for people most in five to ten years?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e566	I think it will be such that even in the future people will feel first and foremost that they are close to their municipality, the primary municipality. And that's how we want it to be, because it's in your municipality that you have the daily offer related to school, care for the elderly, kindergarten, etc. So it's excellent that people have the main connection to their municipality. After all, when we implement the administrative reform, it is primarily to manage public administration in a wisest way, and then we believe that decisions should be taken as close as possible to people. That is why this is both a democratic reform and a decentralisation reform. We are convinced that, at regional level, more responsibility for industrial development in a broad sense will be given to a few solutions that are better adapted to local conditions, and one will also be able to take out the creativity that exists locally. So we will get results that are important to people, but the proximity I think will hardly be particularly large to the regional level, it will be primarily at the municipal level.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e579	Then we go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e582	I have a question to Haga, the Council of State. The government has gone high, often with great conviction, and is committed to a significant strengthening of the municipal economy, a strong and healthy municipal economy and a good welfare offer, which the Progress Party believes is also very important. The promises were in line during the election campaign: 10,000 more employees in the municipal sector, more hands in care, home care and nursing homes. Poverty was to be abolished – it was also said in the election campaign. Several teachers at school, several hours at school, free school food, which has now become fruit and green, and not least the swimming pools. Full swimming pool was used as a symbol throughout the campaign, they were to be filled up. And then: the follow-up and maintenance of schools and churches. 'The churches rot,' said the Council of State throughout the campaign. And the free principle in school was to be strengthened. Still paying the parents camp school and skiers. The government also encourages rapporteurs and municipalities to look at the school structure, what it now involves, and to develop a comprehensive plan to correct the financial imbalances in the municipal sector. We're waiting for that, too. Some in the Government have put their honor and position in that the Government will build kindergartens for everyone who wants to do so, and will introduce step 2 of the kindergarten agreement, which means that the price of the nursery will be reduced to NOK 1750. What's common to all of these bets? Well, it's the municipalities that are responsible for offering this. The government owes it to update the Storing and the population in this important area. Based on all enquiries by e-mail and telephone, there are still major deficiencies in the municipalities. Can the Council of State give an update on what the stand is like today?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e593	It may be that I should ask for a little more than 2 minutes to answer this question, but I will do my best within the timescales that exist. The government has great ambitions on behalf of the Municipality of Norway. We have set ourselves the goal of restoring optimism in Kommune-Norway, and we are going to make Kommune-Norway shine. There's a lot of ambition, and we're doing that project. The fact that municipalities could start in 2006 with DKK 5.7 billion more than they started in 2005, is in itself a clear expression of the efforts we have in the municipal sector. Fortunately, the reports are now pouring in to us that the extra money received by municipalities helps to strengthen the service provision around the country. We're getting reports of community schools that can be maintained, of increased school investment, of increased spending on care for the elderly. We're glad. We also received a study that showed that half of the municipalities that had closed their swimming pools because of their economy are filling up water in them again. That's what the Nettavis reported on here by day. So things happen all around Norwegian municipalities, and nothing is more pleasing to us, given that this is one of our important areas of activity. Then it's a good thing before we're in the goal of getting the local well-being as good as we want. Therefore, it must become a stepping-up plan for the municipalities. Therefore, we need to be even better at making good use of resources in the municipal sector. We also have discussions with the municipal sector about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e604	The reports also flow into the opposition policies of the Stortinget. I have e.g. received an e-mail, and I quote: «I work as a teacher at Gruben elementary school in Mo i Rana. The red-green option promised us in the Soria-Moria statement that it would be invested in the school sector, but as many of the other things they promised it would not happen, at least not here. In Rana it will be cut to the next year about. 50 teaching positions, 12.5 positions at my school. Is this the promise of knowledge?? This means that the students who need, and who are actually entitled to organised education under the Training Act, will not receive it.’ Then there are different reports ticking in. What will the Council of State do next year? Will she then follow up with a new 5,7 billion kroner, or will she want to increase even more when there are yet completed tasks in the municipal sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e614	It is a challenge that municipalities have been hungry for very many years, and there is a considerable delay – to use that word – in the municipal sector. The hunger and the lag in the municipal sector is so extensive that we can't fix this in a year. Yes, I have a lot of good reports about things happening in the municipalities, but I also get the same reports that the representative Thomsen does, that things aren't as good as they should be. It'll take time to correct what's been the big imbalance in the municipal sector, but we're on it. We've taken a huge lift. And then I probably don't take the budgetary procedure here in this room in the first place. We're going to get it into the government first, and we're going back to Stortinget at the time we're going to get back to Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e623	The President will allow three follow-up questions – first Bent Höie.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e626	My question to the municipal minister is: When will the municipal minister put the rhetoric away from the election campaign and take on the responsibility that you also have as a municipal minister to give a correct picture of the situation in Kommune-Norway? The municipal minister continues to talk about the starvation of the municipalities and the inheritance she took over. However, the municipal minister is also well aware of the inheritance she took from the previous government: the surplus in 2005 in Kommune-Norway was DKK 8 billion, over twice as much as the additional allocation granted to the municipal minister, which amounts to 1 pst. the income of Kommune-Norges. In a letter to the undersigned, the Minister of State has itself confirmed that the growth in the income of the Municipality of Norway in 2004 was the highest since 1997. Can't the municipal minister finally say that there was a positive effort to strengthen the municipality of Norway under the previous government on which she can build with great joy?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e633	There are many numbers to refer to from the previous government, among other things. growth rates, with which the representative Höie is very well known, which are much lower in previous years. What is the situation in Norwegian municipalities is that they had a net operating surplus last year of 3.9 pst. We believe that the net operating result should be above 3 pst. But it's not hard to get a net operating result of over 3 pst. You can easily get that by cutting into municipal services. Interestingly, the representative Thomsen just before this question from the representative, Höie, just makes clear what needs are still still in the municipal sector. So the representative Höie and I can play with numbers and percentages, but that's just clearly interesting. Because what we have to be concerned about is what kind of service people actually have in the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e638	Bjørg Tørersdal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e641	State Council Haga has said that we should have a break in the debate on small or large municipalities or municipalities, and such – we should leave it behind when we are now engaged in the administrative reform. It has calmed down, until today we read on the front page of the Municipal Report, entitled ‘Fothen down for Hagas promises’, that ‘Stoltenberg will merge municipalities’. This creates unrest and some uncertainty as to what is the Government's real policy in this area. Is it the case that a person should listen to the promises that there should be calmness about the debate on community reunification, or is his foot down? What is the Government's policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e647	I think I recommend the magnificence representatives to listen to what both the Prime Minister and I say, rather than dealing with headlines in the Municipal Report. The Prime Minister has been very clear that we are starting from and practicing volunteering in the area of community reunification. This will in practice mean that if you want to get together locally, we do not put our foot down on it, but we do not want to contribute special baits in addition to what is already in the code for community mergers. We are not withdrawing benefits in connection with a community merger, except that we say that we do not want to fly around with carrots, as the previous government did, for example. that you would get a bridge provided you joined the neighbouring municipality.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e652	The president would say that the question was a little bit outside of the main question. But the government chose to answer that -- not so unnatural, maybe. Lars Sponheim – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e657	I understand that it is uncomfortable to be taken down by its own head of government on the first side of the KS’ Municipal Report, so I will not follow up that question, except to state that insofar as it has been starving in the last years of the municipalities, it happened not least during the Bondevik I government, where Åslaug Haga and her party were also present. But fortunately, significant parts of this have been corrected in the last two years, during the Bondevik II administration. My question is not about that, but it is about the situation we are now facing, if we are to look ahead and have a common desire that the local government economy should be strengthened in order to achieve better well-being. Primarily, the government has managed to raise the local government sector in line with the previous government proposal, with DKK 3.8 billion. That's good. But there is a danger that this will be negotiated in private consumption in the wage settlement we are now facing. There are demands that may be about the double of the action space that has been given. Is the Minister of State concerned that wage-fixing can take this welfare increase out of the municipalities so that it becomes a private consumption?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e664	First to the initial financiers of the representative Sponheim: Freewill is the basis of a municipal merger. It is totally inappropriate for this government to use coercion in relation to municipal mergers. The representative and I quickly agree that the needs of the municipal sector have been high for a long time. I insist that the developments we had in the municipal sector under the previous government were very unfortunate – a considerable aftermath. In the case of wage settlement, it is up to the parties to negotiate. I take as my starting point that the parties are responsible. I think everyone in the municipal sector is concerned that we should do well to help strengthen the service provision around. But I don't want to create any confusion about a payroll settlement, and just repeat: I expect that we will get a responsible settlement within the sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e671	Let's go to the last main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e674	I am delighted to ask the Minister for Fisheries a question. The government has announced a new business policy and that the toolbox should be filled in. In fish farming, the Government has introduced a new tool in relation to ownership regulation. Just before Christmas, with a short consultation period, the new rules on ownership of breeding were beaten by the Government. No one shall control more than 25 pst. by the concession biomass and permission must be obtained from the Government to control between 15 and 25 pst. of the concession biomass. The hearing raised strong objections from the farming industry, expert teams and the Competition Authority. The industry considers that there are exceptional limitations when no other farming nation has such limitations and that the proposal imposes unnecessary structural constraints on the industry. Professor Frank Asche at Stavanger University thought that the proposal shows little perspective if the goal is to build large, powerful businesses along the coast, and that it can close the door of any unit that can match the international food chains. The Competition Authority considered that the proposal was unfortunate as a result of strong international competition in breeding and indicated that the Competition Act in any case also applies to breeding and that the criteria for preventing mergers below 25 pst. is unclear. In Dagbladet on 9 December last year, there was a suggestion that government sources suggested that the rule of ownership was run through at express speed to prevent billionaires John Fredriksen and Jens Ulltveit-Moe from buying themselves into the industry. The Norwegian farming industry is profitable, non-subsidised, characterised by diversity, strong competition and international orientation. There are more than 200 operators in the Norwegian breeding industry. On the other hand, in more protected areas such as energy and agriculture, the Government has shown a markedly low interest in diversity, the spread of power and competition. Can the Government further justify the Government’s high interest in ownership control tools in the farming industry, and will initially prevent mergers that provide operators with more than 15 pst. of the concessions?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e685	Firstly, I would like to reject the fact that the regulation on ownership in the breeding industry is a new tool. It is a tool that has existed for many years, even under the previous government. What our government has done to ensure a varied structure in the farming industry as in other industries and to ensure that society can control how our natural resources are managed is to lower the boundaries of ownership. That means that if you have to own more than 15 pst. of the total concession biomass, the Ministry of Fisheries and Coast must be applied for authorisation. So the upper absolute limit of how much you can own, is twenty-five pst.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e692	I would like to thank you for your answer. The purchase of Marine Harvest is historical in the Norwegian farming industry. Marine Harvest is mainly old Hydro Seafood, which was sold out by the country in 1996 after buying up a large number of smaller operators in Norway and building one of the country's largest farms. At the time, it was described as a commercial disaster that this major operator operating along the coast was sold out and came to foreign hands. Now we are facing a new roadblock in Norwegian farming policy. Now we have the opportunity to buy back old Hydro Seafood and create the world's largest farm with Norwegian ownership, Norwegian head office and Norwegian stock exchange listing. The company will have more than 3000 employees in Norway and will be a leading player in the world market, but still well below the limit of competition law and dominant position. Can the Council of State comment on the many and, in my opinion, quite incomprehensible plays by red-green politicians about putting boilers in the way of buying back the Hydro Seafood?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e701	The Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs has received the application from Pan Fish and will be subject to a thorough and effective procedure. The red-green government has not yet concluded on this matter, but when we deal with the application, we will deal with it on the basis of the criteria set out in the ownership regulation. This includes, inter alia: that we shall assess it in relation to whether the acquisition contributes to achieving national industry objectives, whether it contributes to increasing the value of Norwegian fish exports, whether it leads to increased value creation, and whether it contributes to maintaining the industry as a profitable and viable coastal industry. Then we get back to the conclusion when the application is processed.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e706	The President will allow two follow-up questions – first Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e709	It is striking that every time this government talks about an active ownership policy, it focuses primarily on constraints. Ownership restrictions, which this issue concerns, and acquisition laws are examples of this. It is an explicit policy of most parties in the Storting that the fishing industry is the industry that will contribute income to the country once the oil goes away. It requires the industry to be structured, and Norwegian companies to be the leaders in the world. Therefore, it is positive that one of Norway’s richest men now takes part of the wealth home and invests in Norwegian business. This will help to strengthen the industry and will contribute to the necessary structuring of this industry. How will the Council of State facilitate Norwegian investors to build the world's largest fishing and farming companies?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e719	We will conclude on this matter when we have made the assessments we are going to make in the Department and in the Government. This government suggests that we should pursue an active industrial policy. This means, on the one hand, that we must manage the natural resources with which Norway has been blessed and ensure that the marine resources benefit as much as possible the fisheries-dependent coastal communities. Then, on the other hand, we will contribute instruments through the marine value creation programme and through research and development, so that we can generate new results, including for new marine species, and continue the positive developments in salmon farming – as a very good example of how well public and private partnerships work.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e726	Jan Tore Sanner – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e729	For market actors, and of course also for the farming industry, it is important that competition law is predictable and that it is clear. The new rules on ownership imposed by the Council of State open up political discretion if an actor controls between 15 and 25 pst. It's true, as the Council of State says, there's nothing new with an opening to search for the ministry, but the new thing is that the border is lowered. This has also been criticised by the Competition Authority, namely that there is a lack of clarity in these rules. Now we've had to frame up what's in the rules, but it doesn't seem much clearer for that reason. My question is whether the Council of State sees it as unfortunate that it is such a great political discretion that an actor has to deal with to control between 15 and 25 p.m. of the concession biomass. My other question is whether the Council of State will take the initiative to clarify this legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e734	It surprises me that the limit that the previous government had in the ownership code is being produced as the only right limit. It is true that the previous government raised the threshold in relation to the limits imposed by Stoltenberg I a few years ago. Then the legislation we have is to ensure predictability of the industry, but it must also ensure predictability of all coastal communities dependent on fisheries and dependent on aquaculture. Then I think it's useful that one can also base political assessments, in addition to mathematics.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e741	So the oral question time is over. In an incursion, the President skipped a Document 8 proposal to be put forward. The President will then give the floor to Mr Kjenaas Kjos to put forward a proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e746	I would like to propose, on behalf of Kenneth Svendsen, Robert Eriksson, Harald T. Nesvik, Thore A. Nistad and myself, the necessary changes to the applicable regulations and legislation so that wheelchairs which are only for outdoor use and have a maximum speed of up to 10 km/h may be allowed in line with normal battery-powered wheelchairs.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e751	The proposal will be dealt with in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. We're going to the ordinary question hour.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e759	There will be a number of changes in the configured question list, and the President will show you in the context of the list distributed to the representatives' seats in the room. The President proposed that the proposed changes in today's Question Time be approved. The President sees it as a matter of fact. The changes were as follows: Question 3, from the representative Kari Lise Holmberg to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for the Environment as the appropriate representative. Questions 5 and 7 from the representatives Odd Einar Dørum and Arne Sortevik of the Minister for Transport must be postponed until the next Question Time when the Council of State has left. Question 6, from the representative Per Roar Bredvold to the Minister for Transport, will be answered by the Minister for Agriculture and Food on behalf of the Minister for Transport, who has been away. Following a request from the Minister for Agriculture and Food, this question is moved and answered before Question 18, which is to be answered by the same Council of State. Question 8, from the representative Anders Anundsen of the Minister of Knowledge, has been withdrawn. Question 9, from the representative Jan Tore Sanner to the Minister of Knowledge, will be answered by the Minister of Finance as the appropriate representative. After a request from the Minister for Finance, this question is moved to Question 2. Question 15, from the representative Åse Gunhild Woie Duesund to the Minister for Health and Health, will be drawn up by the representative Kjell Ingolf Ropstad. Question 17, from the representative of Trond Helleland to the Minister for Renewal and Administration, will be drawn up by the representative of Øyvind Halleraker.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e782	‘Recently, examples have emerged that real estate sales tasks contain significant errors, which may lead to large economic losses for the buyer. In this context, it has been pointed out by several teams that the broker's responsibility for the information provided is not clear enough. Do the Council of State agree that the responsibility of the real estate agents for information provided in sales tasks must be clarified in the law?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e789	It is a very important question that the representative Syversen raises, for the purchase of housing is the largest and most important investment for most people. The more important it is that we can be sure of the information given in the sales assignment. The real estate agent has a legal obligation to investigate information that can be provided and may also become liable if there are defects or defects in the sales task. The question is whether this is sufficient. A public inquiry into changes in the law on real estate was sent to the hearing in January – NOU 2006:1. It was sent out on 27 January and it has a period of consultation on 2 May 2006. It is assessed, inter alia, in the following ways: to impose on real estate agents a more stringent responsibility for the information provided precisely in order to safeguard the rights of purchasers. Today, the real estate agent has an obligation to give the purchaser a written sale task before an agreement is made on the purchase of the property. This obligation arises under § 3-6 of the Real Estate Act. The provision lays down certain minimum requirements as to the information to be disclosed in the sales declaration. The broker's obligation to investigate is governed by Paragraphs 3 to 7 of the Act. This provision requires the broker, as far as it seems reasonable, to obtain and control the necessary information about the property. Paragraphs 3 to 1 of the Act, concerning the broker's obligation to care for the seller and the purchaser, also apply when deciding on the broker's obligations to provide information about the property. In the case of the broker’s liability, the real estate agent imposes unstatutory liability rules – the so-called professional liability. This rule of liability follows from case-law and imposes a particularly strict requirement on the broker's diligence that he or she should not be liable for any lack of or misinformation provided to the purchaser. The selection that has been subject to the Law on Real Estate and Real Estate for the purpose of amending the law has, among other things: addressed the questions of changing and clarifying the broker's responsibility for the information contained in the sales task. In further legislative work, the issue of brokers will be subject to a more stringent responsibility for the fulfilment of their obligation to provide information. The committee has proposed the inclusion in the real estate law of a reference to the fact that the broker is liable under general compensation rules. In addition, the Ministry will consider in more detail whether the broker’s disclosure obligation should be clarified to a greater extent than that resulting from the applicable law. The sample assumes that such clarification could help to obtain more information about the property and make it easier for the purchaser to hold the broker responsible in the event of any later findings. In this context, the legal requirements for the information to be provided in the sales task will also be assessed.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e808	I thank you for the answer from the Minister of Finance, and that is an answer I perceive positively. It is true that there are several actors responsible for information. The tariff industry is also responsible, and there is also a certain responsibility on the purchaser to go through the information that is provided. The legal status of today may be more marked by the uncertainty of individual actors as to the information they themselves are responsible for controlling and producing. Now I am aware that the laws of the tariff industry are not under the Ministry of Finance, but my question is: in the further work of law, will the Government as such ensure that one goes through the responsibilities of the various actors, so that it appears clearer to the public and to the consumer than today?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e817	The representative of the Syvers is quite correct. It's not just brokers that are actors here, it's also buyers and valuers. It is clear that when we go through the Property Agents Act to consider making proposals to the Storting about changes to it, we're also going to wonder if we have a sufficient basis to just change the Property Agents Act, or whether we're also going to take the initiative to change other circumstances. That's the sum of this that's important for the sale of a dwelling.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e822	That's good.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e831	I have a question for the Minister of Finance: ‘The value added tax is 25 pst. for food consumed at the place of supply, e.g. in restaurants, and 13 pst. for food that cannot be consumed at the point of sale, e.g. at refuelling stations. More and more of them now address the problem that many outlets that only charge the low VAT also facilitate consumption at serve-site premises. Thus, the difference in the charge for initially equal catering/sales outlets creates a distortion of competition. What will the Council of State do to eliminate this development?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e840	First of all, I would like to thank the representative Svein Flätten for being a very eager questioner to the Minister for Finance, and we have a sort of fixed meeting time here every Wednesday. The Ministry of Finance has a great responsibility, and I am very pleased with the interest shown by the Stortinget. As is known, from 1 July 2001, a reduced VAT on food was introduced. The reduced rate is today at 13 pst. However, foodstuffs placed on the market for the provision of food services are not considered to be the placing on the market of food and are therefore subject to a full VAT rate of 25 p.m. The system of different rates for the placing on the market of foodstuffs and serving services has now existed for several years. Corresponding systems also apply in some other countries, such as the United Kingdom and the United Kingdom. in Sweden. The charging authorities have issued several interpretative opinions in this area. The industry should therefore be well aware of the legislation and the closer practice. However, I would like to stress that it is a fundamental principle that VAT should have the minimum effect of distorting competition and that the turnover of equal goods and services should be treated equally. We have recently received reports from the travel industry that there may be problems in the area to which the fleet representative refers. The Ministry has, among other things: on the basis of this, the matter was raised with the Directorate of Taxation and asked the Directorate to assess the detailed design and practice of the legislation. The Directorate has also been asked to assess whether it may be appropriate to implement control measures to ensure compliance with legislation and competition neutrality.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e851	Let me repeat that I think it is nice to meet the Minister of Finance this way once every 14 days! Let me also thank you for a positive answer, especially because the Minister of Finance did not mention what has been mentioned most in the Questionnaire today, the legacy of the past and what has been, because this question is about the development we are now seeing in a slightly late stage of this – the system has been a few years. It's just to go down Karl Johan's street and adjacent streets and see that new types of serving sites emerge that, in a sense, avoid the competition that lies in this. I am very pleased that the Minister of Finance has brought this up with his offices, and could I then imagine asking another question: does she see any progress, i.e. in time, in this area? When can we expect anything about it?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e860	I have no specific deadline for when we can finish this review and present it to Stortinget or Flötten. But I can promise that we'll have full pressure on this case, because it'll be demanding as long as there's a difference of interest, and such a difference in rate as in this case, between 13 and 25 pst. ; it triggers creativity to try to get down to the lowest rate. The fleet has raised a problem that we are familiar with, and that we are now working on, and I promise we will do it quickly.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e867	Does Svein Fleet want the word for additional questions?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e870	No, I don't want to say anything but that positive answers are we happy with, so if you can just keep coming to the Stortinget every 14 days, I'm happy.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e875	It was the pure idyll, this one right here. So we go to question 9.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e885	This question, from the representative Jan Tore Sanner to the Minister of Knowledge, will be answered by the Minister of Finance as the appropriate representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e888	We'll see if this is going to be the same fun. I had originally wanted to hear the Minister of Knowledge's views on this matter, but I take note that it is the Minister of Finance who is right to answer the question: «Trondheim survey student has decided that the independent research organisation SINTEF shall no longer be exempt from property and income taxes. This despite the fact that companies which do not have acquisitions for their purposes are exempt from taxes on wealth and income. A change in the practice of equality will also affect other research institutions and mean a sharp deterioration in the framework conditions for research in Norway. Will the Council of State take the initiative in providing a political solution that will ensure continued tax freedom?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e899	The representative, Sanner, may have to find that tax is the responsibility of the Minister of Finance, even though the Minister of Knowledge has a valid field to cover. Under the Tax Act, companies and entities which do not have acquisitions for their purposes are exempt from property and income taxes. The question of whether the institution has acquisitions for purposes or not depends on a specific assessment in the individual case. The essential elements of this overall assessment are the objectives set out in the statutes, the structure of the institution and the activities of the institution. However, if an institution which does not have acquisitions for its purpose carries on an economic activity, it would be liable for the income and wealth of that activity beyond certain amounts. This is the problem. A device that is first tax classified in a particular category may evolve over time to re-assess its classification. On the one hand, the purpose or actual operation may change and on the other hand, income patterns and economic performance may change. It may also be that collected data from later years’ operations provide a better picture of the actual conditions than those of the previous classification. The institution must reclassify from tax exemption to tax liability if this means a more correct classification under the tax law. The issue of whether an institution is taxable or not in accordance with these rules falls within the jurisdiction of the local authorities. The Ministry of Finance does not rule on the tax liability of individual cases in the administration of the equation. With regard to the tax treatment of research institutes in general, I can inform you that there is a work going on at the level of office where representatives from the Ministry of Knowledge, the Ministry of Industry and Trade and the Ministry of Finance are to see whether the tax rules in force are satisfactory. Further follow-up in this area will depend on this review.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e912	I believe that this matter will be served by a broad political consensus. There is a broad political consensus that research should be focused on, while this specific case could have quite dramatic consequences, not only for SINTEF, but also for 60 other research institutions. I refer you to the Chief Executive Officer of Sintef, Unni Steinsmo, has given a statement to the Address Paper: ‘It will drain us of liquidity that is currently being used to invest in future research.’ In other words, if SINTEF and other research institutions must both be taxed on wealth and taxed on companies, it will affect research. I take note that the Council of State has now set up a group to deal with these questions, but I will nevertheless be confirmed by the Council of State that it is possible for her to take a political initiative that will be able to resolve this specific matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e922	What is not possible for the Minister of Finance is to call a local Equation Office and say that they should disregard the rules in force and make exceptions on a case-by-case basis. That's not possible. What is possible is what I have now done, namely to set up a group of representatives from the three departments that have the most to do with research and research institutions, to clarify exactly the tax issues that the representative addresses. I agree that it is a high priority task to ensure good quality of research and to ensure a degree of research in Norway. There is a broad consensus on this in the Storting, and the Government has an offensive position on it. That's exactly why I've taken this grip. So I'd like to come back when we've gone through the issues properly.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e929	As I said, I am pleased that a group has now been set up to look at it. In this context, I would urge the Council of State to also have close dialogue with the research institutions, because it should be an ambition to ensure the continued freedom of taxation of research institutions which do not have as their object. The alternative to ensuring this tax freedom is that, above public budgets, we need to increase the appropriations for research quite dramatically, and then we are equidistant. I would ask the Council of State to confirm that a close dialogue will be established with the research institutions concerned.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e936	I can confirm that will be done. What is demanding in these situations is that many of the research institutions which do not have as their object are gradually engaged in extensive economic activities. And that's finding these boundaries that are the challenge in terms of tax rules. In order to find reasonable limits on this, we need to have good contact with the research institutions concerned.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e941	We go back to question 3.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e948	This question, from the representative of Jan Tore Sanner to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for the Environment, as appropriate.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e951	I will be asked by the Council of State about the following: ‘In Telemark, the county transferred the right of objection in construction matters to its own environmental protection department. Thus, the discretion of the county council is disregarded for the sake of bureaucracy. When the county council's discretionary exercise lapses, decisions taken by the municipality could be challenged by a purely professional body and then ended up at the Minister for the Environment's table. Will the State Council review the right of objection mechanism and ensure that no practice can be practised that weakens municipal autonomy?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e960	At the time of the introduction of the Planning and Building Act in 1985, the department’s powers to take binding spatial planning decisions were transferred to the municipalities. An important prerequisite for this transfer was that municipalities should also pursue national interests in planning. In cases where municipal plans conflict with such interests, state authorities may raise objections so that the municipality's access to self-fulfilment of the plan fails. Objections may also be raised by the county and neighbouring municipalities. If no agreement is reached through negotiation or mediation, the case shall be referred to the Ministry of the Environment for final decision. That the primary responsibility for spatial planning lies at local level, where one knows where the shoe is printed, was and is an important and sensible reform. In the preliminary work on the Law on Planning and Building, it has been stated that caution must be exercised from the state's point of view to overseeing local political judgement. I agree. In matters governed by the Law on Planning and Building, the county is affected by the State's professional authority according to a number of environmental interests, such as pollution, nature protection and outdoor life. In doing so, the counties are entitled to raise objections. The county also has professional responsibilities and may raise objections to preparedness, risk and vulnerability, the interests of children and young people and their accessibility to all. In addition, the county has professional responsibility for agriculture and is also the secretariat of the County Agriculture Board, which has been given the objection authority. For practical and professional reasons, several counties have raised objections to individual departments. This is done by the authority of the county. If an objection is raised by one of the State Departments, it will be for the State to decide for itself whether or not to intervene in the case. If the case is sent to the Ministry, the county of the letter of transmission shall carry out an overall assessment of the case and shall recommend a decision on the matter. In this respect, the discretion of the State will be fully exercised. The number of objections raised by the Ministry of the Environment for treatment is quite stable from year to year. Annually, it involves 30-40 plans of them. 3 000 plans taken by municipalities in total. The Ministry emphasises thorough treatment with, among others: inspection and meeting with the municipalities in these matters. In several cases, the municipality receives full or partial support. Overall, this implies that about 99 pst. of all municipal level decisions become final. It shows that we have put the list high to try out municipal autonomy. There is a continuous development in which more and more public sector interests are linked to planning processes under the Planning and Building Act. Several level issues are thus subject to balances in local elected bodies. Thus, most of the objections are resolved by negotiations at local level or after mediation between the parties concerned has been carried out by the county. The amendment of the Law on Planning and Buildings on 7 May 2004 strengthened the objection mechanism in order to prevent so-called rematches. The aim of the change is to provide a more predictable and efficient planning and construction process. In the light of current legislation and the experience we have with the objection system, I do not see the need to change it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e988	In general, I would like to say that I think it is good that the Council of State says that the main responsibility should be at local level, and that the list is set high for over-testing of municipal autonomy. This is an example of how to focus on municipal autonomy, and that is why I initially addressed the question to the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs. We see that municipal autonomy can easily be put under pressure, and it can easily be undermined if you're not observant. Now the Swedish Council of State represents SV, a party that also argues for local self-government, but that, as I have seen so far on the Storting, in practice often stands for the opposite. It is detailed management, and – not least – when it comes to environmental issues, it is a bit centralising. Then I would like to ask the Council of State: what is the Minister for the Environment's position on the importance of municipal autonomy, and will the Minister for the Environment work to ensure that it is not weakened in the time we are now going into?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e999	The government is concerned both with preserving and strengthening municipal autonomy. There's the government together. The government wants to pursue a policy that just strengthens municipal autonomy. There are often conflicts of interest between local and national interests in the conflicts at the Ministry of the Environment’s table. Here, too, I think it is important, in the field handled by the Ministry of the Environment, that one should have an eye for national interests to be preferred to local ones.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e1010	‘The Committee on Energy and the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, in its statement on the 2006 budget, underlines that the Government is examining how the role of the various departments can be strengthened and clarified in an open-air offensive. How far has this investigation progressed, and how will the Stortinge will be briefed on the Government's cross-ministerial strategy for strengthening open-air life?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e1017	The previous government, Stoltenberg, presented St.meld in the spring of 2001. No 39 for 2000–2001, Outdoor life — A road to higher quality of life. The Communication gave a thorough presentation of the challenges in the field of outdoor life, objectives and guidelines for policy and instruments for implementation. It was widely connected in Stortinget. The communication continues to underpin the policy of outdoor life, as it did in the previous ageing period. Among other things, the focus on children and young people, outdoor life in school, outdoor life and public health, outdoor security, beach zone bets and the strengthening of the rights of all persons is well anchored in this Communication. I would like to remind you that we have recently completed the large and successful campaign Free Air in 2005. This, too, was a direct follow-up to the message, so it was about 17 million. kr for this measure on the State budget. The follow-up to the outdoor work is reported annually in the budget proposals of the Ministry of Environment. This is also regularly reported in the communications on the Government's environmental protection policy and state of the state of the state at the latest, St.meld. No 21 for 2004-2005. In addition, during the examination of the latter Communication by the Storting, there was renewed support for objectives, instruments and measures in the field of outdoor life policy. In several other contexts in recent years, cooperation and clarification of roles and responsibilities in this field have been discussed. I mention e.g. work on the public health and action plan for physical activity 2005-2009, the child and youth impact assessments, on sport and on education policy. This has led to closer cooperation towards common objectives and increased allocations for outdoor purposes, including: from the health and cultural authorities. I do not believe that this is the basis for a new big message about outdoors in the coming years. I think it is most appropriate to use resources to implement important measures for outdoors. But I intend to give an overall overview of this effort in the next communication on the Government's environmental protection policy. I have now started the investigation work for this message.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e1028	I thank you for the answer, which does not answer what is my question, namely how the Government should follow up the Committee's request to investigate how different departments can better interact in order to strengthen outdoor life. In my question, there is no request for a new groceries message. So my question has to be repeated: what will a person do to follow up the comment asking for a review of how different departments can contribute to an offensive for the outdoor sector? I am thinking about the Ministry of Culture and the Church, the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs, the Ministry of Knowledge and the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality. This will include, inter alia: be natural to consider whether toys can be used to strengthen outdoor life, targeting children and young people in particular — a matter that SV has previously been concerned with. Does the answer given to me by the Council of State mean that there will not be such an overall review of the various departments' possibilities requested by the Committee?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e1037	As I mentioned in my first response, a more detailed assessment and possible strengthening of outdoor life will be addressed in the upcoming big news about the government's environmental policy. There is a well-established arena where the Government involves all the departments concerned, and it is precisely in the interaction between all the departments concerned that we can manage to achieve the national environmental objectives in terms of outdoor life.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e1042	I had a specific question in my first supplementary question. It was about whether the State Council will take initiatives to strengthen the Toy Scheme aimed at outdoor activities for children and young people. It is an area where SV has been very involved in Stortinget, and they have been concerned that the scheme is being modified to bring more about children and young people, related to outdoor life. It also illustrates my point that several departments can help to keep up the pressure on the outdoor sector. The question will therefore be whether the State Council responsible for gambling will help to raise this issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e1047	There is a strong commitment in all the departments involved to increase the focus on outdoor life and the objectives of outdoor life, and it is quite natural that all the issues that Kvassheim mentions, as well as a number of other issues, are discussed in the context of presenting the Communication on the Government's environmental policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e1063	This question has been postponed. Question 6 will be answered before question 18.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e1079	This question has been postponed.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e1093	This question is drawn. Question 9 is answered. We have then come to question 10, from the representative Elisabeth Aspaker to the Minister of Justice. The President cannot see that the Council of State is present, so the President will take a short break. After a delay of about 5 minutes, said:
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e1102	Now the councils have arrived in the hall, and the break is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e1109	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Justice: ‘The Minister of Justice has previously announced that during the spring the Government will present a comprehensive plan to remove the pay queues, but we are now experiencing an acute shortage of settlement sites. At the same time as the police have been completely out of custody for periods, it has been reported that foreigners who could have been expelled for compensation in their home country are seizing a number of places in Norwegian prisons. What immediate action will the Council of State take to resolve the serious shortage of settlement sites?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e1118	At first, I would like to say I am sorry that I did not want to come in time. It was just that I had problems getting out of the government building because of the security measures that were there. That's one of the reasons for this regrettable break – and I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e1123	The President-in-Office of the Council accepted the cause.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e1126	Lack of adequate custody and settlement facilities is the biggest challenge we are now facing in the criminal system. Lack of adequate custody and settlement capacity reinforces the problem of repatriation criminals, weakens the preventive effect of punishment and weakens confidence in our penal system and our criminal policy. The government will therefore work actively to increase the capacity of prisons in the short and longer term. So far, 31 new prison sites have been opened. An additional 67 places are planned during the year. Criminal custody is a strict priority in the payroll line. In a situation of pay queues, places are made available first for custody, then long judges, and then short for violence or violence-related judges. Young people under the age of 21 and active gang members and persons who constitute the heaviest criminals with organisational affiliation are always given high priority in order to be put right into atoning. Despite this priority, it is true that the police are not offered a sufficient number of custody sites, as we have seen examples of, and that is very regrettable. The representative, Aspaker, points out that foreigners who could have been expelled for compensation abroad are seizing a number of settlements. Transfer to permanent residence abroad is an option for some prisoners with foreign citizenship. However, not all of this is relevant. It is a prerequisite for a forced transfer that the State concerned is associated with the European Convention of Transmission and its Additional Protocol. In addition, in the specific case, the State must consent to the transfer, as the State has no obligation to accept prisoners for continued compensation there. Furthermore, there is a prerequisite for a final expulsion decision. The compliance or non-compliance with the conditions for expulsion shall be determined by the non-resident authorities. Therefore, there is a good deal of uncertainty about how many foreign prisoners a transfer to a settlement may be relevant. The government intends to present a plan for the closure of the queue in relation to the revised national budget for 2006, and I will return there to the concrete measures to be taken. In the context of the work on the plan, the Ministry assesses different measures both in the short and longer term. Since we will then come back to this, I will not now go into exactly what kind of measures are proposed. But it is clear that at the heart of this work is ensuring better implementation of the foreign nationals who are sitting and sons in Norwegian prisons and who can zone in their home country.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e1142	I thank you for your answer. I might have hoped that the Council of State was a little clearer that it would now engage in dialogue with the authorities of the country concerned in order to expel the foreigners who are in Norway, who can be sent home, to zone in the home country, and that he was more offensive to it. Then it is a reality that you, for example. in the Central Hålogaland Police District, Ofoten District Court and the Tronde District Court, have significant problems as a result of the lack of detention places in that region. In fact, the police have to refrain from being held in custody in matters that qualify for custody elsewhere in the country. In the Eastbound mission last night, we heard that the Bærum police had to send one they had seized, to Vadsø, and we didn't get any progress in the matter because we didn't have the resources to send people back and forth to get to it. So I have the following questions to the Council of State: Will the Council of State in the acute situation consider the extended use of duplication? And will the Council also consider whether private projects that can be resolved more quickly can be a way to improve settlement capacity?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e1151	We will consider all possible measures, and that is what we do in these days. We have quite a short time, since we're going to present this in an overall plan, and therefore I don't want to conclude that now. I want a serious procedure around it. But at the same time, I have to say that the solstice problem that has existed in the last five years, and that has resulted in us having a reconciliation queue, based on the definition, of 2,500 judges waiting for redemption, is something that has also existed during the last government's time period. And I think, with all due respect, that the questioner should also be happy that in the additional proposition of the new government, we chose to strengthen the work of building more places, so that we can actually this year establish 100 new places, far more places than the Bondevik government laid down. That's the only way we can get out of it. It is also important to say that if we are to increase police force in Norway, we must prevent transport over such long stages, which weakens much of the police's resource use. So this is priority from our side.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e1156	I would like to thank you again for your answer. It is true, as the Council of State here says, that this government has taken the initiative, but a good foundation was also laid by the previous government, among other things. in the case of initial appropriations for Halden Prison. I think that if that government had continued, we would also have come to grips with further progress in the reconciliation queue that is there. But I am very concerned about the signals that the Council of State has now sent out, among others. via the media, that he is occupied with open settlements. I would like to have assurances from the Council of State, especially with regard to the care problem we now have, that in the plan that the Government is to submit, there will also be sufficient consideration for the care problem, and that we are not only talking about open settlements, but that closed spaces must also have a central place in the plan with which the Government comes to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e1163	I can confirm that. Getting more closed locations available for custody is a primary task of this initiative. But it's not right, as the questioner now says, that the Bondevik government would have made a strong commitment to this year. That test was not passed when the budget was dealt with before Christmas, where the Right and the other ‘old’ government parties did not choose to add more resources in relation to building new places. So let's do that. We want to establish 100 new places, and that's an absolute promise I'm going to make, and we're doing it well. By establishing more new, open settlements – which we are going to do – you will be able to meet the needs of the reconciliation queues today. 60 pst.-70 pst. of the pending judgments, less than 90 days, many of which can be finely remunerated in open courts. This will mean that many of the closed places will be freed – among other things. to the most serious cases, but also to the custody.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e1174	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Justice: ‘We have a major challenge in ensuring a sound police coverage of the entire population of Finland. Large distances, scattered settlements and a tough climate, as well as problems with the addition of well-qualified personnel more places, make sure that there is a new thinking in this area. Will the Council of State consider setting up its own Sami police district in internal Finnland, in order to improve the legal certainty of the Sami population, as well as improving police preparedness in general in the county?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e1183	I would first like to say that I am pleased with the questioner's initiative in relation to the police situation in Finnmark. It's not just negative. It's also positive, in the sense that the police are doing a very good job in Finnmark. The police located at the churches and elsewhere in Finnmark have just presented very good figures in terms of both crime development and proceedings. The Police Directorate has developed a model for the allocation of resources between police districts. The model is built up with criteria related to police response, where crime control and security represent the most important area. Geographical area is also an element that is highlighted in the model and that has given a positive count for the Finnish police districts. Compared to police districts in other parts of the country, police districts in Finnmark generally come to a satisfactory conclusion in the economic distribution model, as confirmed by the Finnish police. The Ministry of Justice is aware of the problems in Finnmark regarding the recruitment of police officers. In order to improve this situation – informs the Police Directorate – an economic instrument was put in place in 2005 to recruit police high school students, including students with a Sami background, for service at the Finnish police districts. As regards the enforcement of the language rules of the Law, the Ministry of Justice has for several years granted additional funds to police districts with municipalities belonging to the administrative area of the Sami language. From 1999 onwards, the Chief of Police of Troms has managed an amount which, according to its own instructions, is intended to cover additional costs for translation, interpretation, equipment and training in Sami. From 2006 onwards, administrative responsibility was transferred to the police district of Vestfinmark. In 2006 400000 kroner have been allocated according to this instruction. Finally, it can be stated that in 2006, the Police Directorate launched a project aimed at increasing the recruitment of police personnel with a minority background, including Sami speakers, as well as measures to combat all forms of discrimination. In total, I believe that the measures taken to ensure the legal certainty of the Sami population in Finnmark are satisfactory and that the general police response in the county also takes care of this group. I therefore see no immediate need for a separate Sami police district in internal Finnmark. I have to add that in the case of police services in Norway – and insofar as the other legal services as well – I think it would be unfortunate if we shared services and services that the population wants, according to ethnic criteria. I don't think it would be lucky.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e1200	I thank you for your answer. This is a matter with a lot of pages. It is not time to raise everyone now, so I also want to credit the Minister of Justice on this matter. I could have mentioned several completely unacceptable matters, but I will bring forward a very serious incident in Kautokeino recently. The night of a Saturday, two shots were fired in a private house. The police did not come to the scene, despite several enquiries from those who witnessed the incident. This happened 13 miles from the janitor's office that worked with Kautokeino that weekend. The police did not come to the scene until working hours went to Monday morning. This is completely unacceptable. It must be an absolute requirement that people should be able to get the police assistance they need as soon as possible, if such serious situations occur. What will the Minister of Justice do immediately, so that people in Finnmark may not experience events like this in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e1211	I ask for an understanding that I cannot go into a single matter that is presented from the pulpit in Stortinget. I am prevented from doing that – so I do not have the opportunity to do that now either. This is a problem and a challenge we're looking at across the country. Police response time should be reduced in some areas of the country. As I said in my main response, Finnmark has just come out better in terms of the distribution of funds. The government chose to go a step further than the previous government – giving more resources to the police to just do this. The first occasion that the Stortinget gets to discuss such matters will be in the context of the police mission, which is to be debated in the Stortinget in ours. There is also an opportunity to change some of the local structure — to ensure better accessibility for, among other things. the public service offices. The government wants, first of all, a somewhat closer and closer police force. In this way, we will have a good opportunity to meet some of the local needs as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e1222	I would also like to thank you for this reply. In addition to the great distances we have in Finnmark, we have great challenges in recruiting people with Sami language skills and in-depth knowledge of the Sami culture. Inner Finnmark canvas is now created. The legal certainty of the Sami population has been significantly enhanced by the establishment of this institution. But there's a need to be able to deal with a case from a to samish before you can say you're quite satisfied with the offer the population actually gets today. There is also a great need for more people with a Sami background to take up political education. Furthermore, it is necessary for those who are employed and who do not have a Sami background to undertake to acquire knowledge of Sami matters and learn the Sami language. Such training courses must be immediately available in the case of employment. Such special competence must be undertaken by the employee before he or she begins his or her employment, if any. A separate Sami internal Finnish police district could make the manning situation considerably more transparent throughout the county. In addition, those who speak Sami daily could have the opportunity to use their mother tongue — and thus experience no misunderstanding in criminal matters as well as in other legal cases.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e1235	I have to point out what I have said earlier on the question of a Sami police district. I don't think that's the solution to the problems that the asker is now traveling here in the Storting. I would like to give a strong warning against classifying justice from an ethnic point of view. I am also not sure whether it is particularly appropriate for the Sami population. What we can then risk is getting a further stigmatisation of those with a Sami background who had to commit criminal acts, which would not at all benefit the Sami people. I want to refer to the effort that is actually being made, which the questioner was also concerned with, in terms of increasing competence, developing opportunities to use languages during research, not least in guidance, and the job that is now being done in the interior of Finnmark with regard to the rights of property. Here, considerable resources have been invested just to meet the Sami need, not only in criminal matters, but also in civil matters, to monitor, among other things. common practice with regard to the civil matters to be faced. So here I feel like we're on the right track.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e1248	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Culture and the Church: ‘Local media are central cultural carriers and contribute to the diversity of the local social debate. Budstikka Radio Trendelag has one of the largest local radio concession areas, has three local offices with 130 volunteers, 16 pst. listening and high transmission costs due to difficult geography. If the radio is not allowed to exceed the market limit of 2 mill. NOK for radio bingo, they will have to cancel 75 pst. by the employees and drastically reduce broadcasting activity. Will the Council of State consider removing the turnover limit?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e1257	I thank the representative Lånke for the question. Radiobingo represents an important source of revenue for local radio stations in Norway. Many local radios are currently operated on a voluntary and non-profit basis and are important cultural and information providers at local level. I am very concerned about maintaining the local radio media position in the districts and therefore want to strengthen their financial framework conditions. When today’s bingo regulation was adopted in 2004, a turnover ceiling for radiobingo was set at 1.3 million. kr. It was also intended to distribute the bingo market among the various actors. Derogation from the ceiling was granted in 2005, and a new ceiling of 2 million. kr was fixed in 2005. Through the Ministry's dialogue with representatives of the Local Radio Federation, I was made aware that the previous government signaled that the roof should be removed. This was not followed up that time and of course has caused frustration among the players who are using radio bingo. I see that there may be a need to reconsider this roof. Work has been started in the Ministry assessing whether the turnover limit for radiobingo should be removed. A final decision on this matter will be made after Easter.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e1266	I thank the Council of State for a long-standing positive response. I understand that this problem is taken seriously, and that it is now being considered to remove the roof, as a previous government has also signaled. I am also pleased that the Council of State shares my view of the positive cultural value of local radio in the community. Local radios have in many ways become stepchildren in the media market, partly because they are powered by voluntary forces and partly because they have the opportunity to receive public support or advertising revenue. My supplementary question goes specifically to the situation of Budstikka Radio Trøndelag, which is in an emergency economic situation because they expected it to be possible to operate according to the assumptions they have made. Will the Council consider granting exemptions to Budstikka Radio so that they can continue, also because it has been indicated that you will be open to remove the roof?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e1275	I think that the representative Lånke and I very much agree on the importance of local radios – that they mean a lot to local cultural life, to local democracy, debate and identity, and that a very good job is done in many local radios with quite limited financial resources, among other things. because it may not be as easy to access the large national advertising campaigns given to the larger commercial radio channels. Radiobingo is an important source of income. I think we have to decide quite quickly whether to raise the roof or not, and treat all applicants the same way. I don't think it would be very well received by other actors on the same market if a single radio were to have a different trading limit than the others. The most important issue of evaluation may be the outcome of this in relation to other types of bingo funded by a high level of volunteering. If we believe it can be handled, we will raise the roof.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e1282	Once again, I thank the Council of State for the answer. I'm glad that the Council of State says about the same thing that I would have said about the positive value that these near-radios represent. Now, however, we are facing an emergency situation in a local radio. I am pleased that one will consider removing the roof quite quickly, but the question is whether it is fast enough. That is why I repeat the question as to whether it is not possible to grant a derogation in this case. It's probably about a few other close range radios that are also in the same situation. My question is, on the one hand, a follow-up to the previous question, and, on the other hand, if the Council of State can suggest any time for when he will make that decision and perhaps in what direction it will go.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e1291	I've gone quite far in signalling a positive attitude. What we need to assess is how this turns out for other bingo games, because they are also funded by important voluntary activities. I notice that the representative was loaned a lot of pressure to raise the turnover limit of gambling activity in the country. We'll look at that right over Easter, and we're seven to eight days away from Easter. We share the concerns about funding the radio channels, but we need to have a general system that allows everyone to be treated equally. We have to deal with it quickly, but we have to make sure that the treatment of individual things does not make this pure bingo.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e1302	I would like to ask the Minister of Culture and the Church the following questions: ‘The establishment of the National Museum of Art has led to the conversion of the operations of the former National Gallery, which is based on national functions which the institution has so far intended to perform. Does the Norwegian Council of State need a museum which at all times displays a historically representative image of Norwegian art, what governance tools does the Ministry of State have in order to ensure this within the framework of today's organisation, and does the Council of State consider that the agreement between the State and the National Museum of Art should be renegotiated?»
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e1311	I thank the representative Thommessen for the question. The question, however, contains a claim that I cannot agree with. All five components of which the National Museum is composed include national functions to be continued and further developed. The fact that the overall exhibition profile has not been in line with the expectations of all groups for a historically short period does not mean that it has been rocked by functions that the museum is required to perform. The answer to the fundamental question, namely whether we need a museum that always shows a historically representative picture of Norwegian art, is yes. The agreement concluded in 2003 with the National Museum of Art, Architecture and Design, which sets out the obligations assumed by the museum, states that ‘The National Museum shall ensure the proper operation and management of the Collections in accordance with good museum standards and within the budgetary framework to which it applies at all times’. Furthermore, it is established that the responsibilities of the National Museum for Operation and Management, among others. includes the further development of the professional and thematic responsibilities of the National Gallery and the Museum of Contemporary Art. In other words, it is indisputable that the National Museum should work with historical visual art and thus also display a representative image, in the same way that the museum should have an active relationship with the contemporary expressions. How this task is to be solved is nothing in the agreement, nor should it be. There is an art and museum professional question for the museum to decide for itself. We have seen in the last year that the museum has harvested some sharp criticism of the new installation that took place in the National Gallery in winter 2005. The museum chose a new – and in the opinion of some people for radical – display method. Of course, it has the right to do so, but at the same time it must be prepared to engage in a substantive dialogue with critics as well as with others who have legitimate interests for our largest visual art intermediary. The museum has signalled in the debate that changes will be made in the future in the historical exhibitions. We have reason to believe that these changes include: will reflect last year's professional discourse. However, the Ministry shall not enter and instruct the museum of the exhibition principles to be used or the number of images to be displayed by specific artists. The Ministry has confidence that the board and management will always deal with such issues. And let me add that I have noticed that the representative Thommess, at the latest in a chronicle in the Evening Post, underlines the arm's length distance principle that will lie between the department and the artistic decisions that such an institution as the National Museum of Art will have. In addition to the agreement between the State and the Museum, the Ministry has governance mechanisms through the allocation of budgetary resources in the annual letter of contribution. The museum must report annually on how the institution allocates the budgetary resources allocated to achieve the cultural policy objectives. In this context, the Ministry has annual contact meetings with the Management Board and the administration of the museum, as is the case with other cultural institutions. Overall, the Ministry has appropriate governance mechanisms for the National Museum. In fact, the said operating agreement with the museum represents a more specific governance basis than is common to other important cultural institutions with which the ministry interacts.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e1328	I thank you for the answer, and of course I agree that there must be an arm's length distance principle in relation to purely professional questions. What we're talking about here, however, is something that has to be considered to be a central museum task and a central task that has to be solved in a country, that is, having what we traditionally think of as a national gallery. We can see, I think, that significant parts of the collection are now gone – at least not available – and it is the whole epoch that has not been presented. Then, of course, you can discuss whether it means that the institution's task is taken care of or not. I just find that strong professional interests do not. I believe that this is a matter that raises very interesting fundamental questions in relation to the state's ordering role to the governments. Because it's like, in the mechanisms we now have in terms of agreements or organization, it's pretty small that describes what we're actually going to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e1337	There is no poor observation by the representative Thommes that there are works in the historical collections of the National Museum that are not shown. So 96 pst. of the works held by the National Museum in its historical collections, at all times not shown, simply because the premises actually do not allow for more than 4 pst. at all times on the wall. According to the museum, international art museums try to have approx. 15 pst. So we're dramatically behind similar institutions in other countries. This underlines another point, namely that we have a very strong need for new premises for this museum, and before the museum gets a proper solution to its building needs, it will simply not be possible to present as much of our historical heritage as we want, and which may also be necessary to get a sufficiently comprehensive and varied representative picture of historical art. So here's a lot that needs to be done before we get to both the Thommessen and the undersigned want to do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e1344	Now it's probably not completely random which 15 pst. Which is displayed, and it's probably some of the things that this is about. I agree that we need a new building with more space. When Stortinget dealt with the ABM message and the new National Museum of Art, I think it was obvious to everyone that the central tasks of these different institutions were to be carried out and continued. But you might have expected that merging this together would help you get something more, and nothing less. I believe that is an expectation that should still lie in the air, and I interpret the Council of State to that he will continue to maintain a expectation, at least, to the Board of the National Museum that the historical presentation too will be substantially expanded in relation to what is happening today.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e1354	I've actually said quite clearly that showing a representative sample of the historical collections is one of the museum's mission from the owner. But I also have to say that I think the debate we've had in the last few years is good. Nothing is more troubling boring than a collection hanging there year in and year out, which no one cares about except to go in and look at it, and which no one discusses and no one has strong opinions about. This makes us aware of what artistic heritage we have, in relation to different epochs and different artists, and what is representative and what is not. It creates a creativity and a dynamics that we also need when we look back in time, not just at contemporary art. There are probably about the same number of opinions about what is representative and what selection should be held there, as there are art-interested people in Norway – so that debate should only be seen in the light of the meeting. The collections will certainly change year after year, and the debate in which Thommen participates will affect it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e1367	I allowed myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Health: ‘The Soria Moria Declaration states that no local hospital should be closed and that health services should be adequately resourced and competent. Maintaining local hospitals is very important for the Left, but if local hospitals are to be kept alive, they must have a content that provides adequate facilities. How will the government ensure the training of enough surgeons with good professional breadth so that local hospitals can survive in the future?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e1376	I am pleased that the Left's representative has the same opinion as the Government that the local hospital should be maintained. Well-functioning local hospitals are essential in a decentralised specialist health service in such a vast country as Norway. The requirement of the Soria Moria declaration that no local hospital should be closed has been communicated as a requirement for regional health establishments for 2006. I am also pleased that the representative of Gunvald Ludvigsen is concerned about the offer at the local hospital. Like the other health services, local hospitals need to be adapted to the needs of the population. We are facing a significant increase in the elderly, and more people are suffering from chronic conditions, among other things. as a result of lifestyle changes and psychosocial stress. These patient groups, which often need close follow-up, need a close service provision. In the future, local hospitals will have specific tasks to address the needs of, inter alia: chronically ill and sick elderly. The services of local hospitals shall be provided in a comprehensive manner both against primary health services and against the services of the other specialist health services. In addition, the medical changes will result in the division of tasks between the different levels of service likely to change over time. This means that I do not see it as appropriate to define a specific set of services that the local hospital should or should not provide. On the contrary, I believe it is important to provide room for local adaptations, both on the basis of the population base of the hospital and to serve, and on the basis of an appropriate division of tasks between nearby hospitals. But I agree with the representative Ludvigsen that local hospitals should have a proper and quality content. A decentralised organisation of specialist health services requires specialists with broad competence. This has been ensured both through the Norwegian speciality structure and through the various specialist rules. Norway has a specialty structure with 30 specialities and 13 border specialities, eight under internal medicine and five under general surgery, respectively. In comparison with many other European countries, the Ministry of Health and Welfare has been restrictive in establishing too many specialities. The Norwegian speciality structure is thus well adapted to the decentralised organisation of the specialist health service. General surgery is maintained as a main speciality, including: to support the recruitment of surgeons to local hospitals and to provide a common professional basis for border specialities during general surgery. This is central to ensuring broad competence within the surgical specialities. The specialisation rules in the surgical specialities also reflect the requirement for broad competence, as it reflects, for example: are required for specialist approval in general surgery in order to proceed with border specialisation. With regard to the capacity of specialist training, a system has been established whereby the Ministry of Health and Health determines annually the number of new training positions, based on a recommendation from the National Council for the Training of Specialists and the Distribution of Doctors. Regional health enterprises shall, based on assessments of the regional needs for services, allocate training positions within the health region and between the different specialities. The aim of the scheme is to ensure a sufficient number of educational positions, with an appropriate geographical distribution and distribution between the specialities. The system shall ensure that the current and future needs of medical specialists, including in the field of surgical specialities, are met. I am going to pay a lot of attention to developing local hospitals in the future, including working to ensure that the necessary personnel – including enough surgeons – are available.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e1402	First, I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. I note with pleasure that the Council of State uses the term ‘well-functioning local hospital’, and I am very happy to be right in this room. What I also note is that the Council of State says that education is especially well adapted by surgeons. I don't think I can agree on that. I can support myself on e.g. The county doctor in Sogn and Fjordane, who has said that we need to get a better design training for medical specialists, especially in surgery, to be generalists enough. I mean, there can be state councils intervene. I have the following follow-up questions: Is the Council of State prepared to use the necessary tools in relation to the training of medical specialists, so that a person can gain sufficient wide-ranging competence, so that a person can improve the level of local hospitals?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e1413	I believe that we have a good breadth in the offer we can give today in terms of education and the number of specialists. But we're going to be open all the time – and of course I am – to input into whether things can be improved. I'm open to that in this area as well. As I said in my first answer, when the government now pays a lot of attention to local hospitals, they think they should be well-functioning – it is important for me to stress again – it is also in that of course we will work to ensure that there are enough staff available, including those of whom the representative Ludvigsen is concerned about. I'll follow up on that in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e1420	I want to thank you for your answer again. We have discussed this before today, and the Council of State has warned that we should have a content debate. Obviously, that's what we're talking about here: what's going to be inside the walls of these hospitals? So it's not the color of the façade that matters. I look forward to having a wide debate, and I'm glad that the Medical Association is also busy with the same thing. They also use the topic of ‘breadth competence’, especially in the field of surgery. They are afraid that one should sit with two types of surgeons – as one so far had before – general surgeons and surgical orthopedics, who can do the job. But now there's a trend that the orthopaedics have become too narrow. I believe that there are still challenges, and I hope that the Council of State and the Department will take the challenge that lies here, and check how this can be done.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e1427	Once again, I confirm that we welcome a content debate, in which it is to a great extent. So the government, as I have explained, believes that part of the local hospital should be able to use more for the elderly and others with more complex disorders. I also think it is important – and I think the representative and I agree – that we allow for local variation because our country is so different. It must also, of course, be weighed against the hospital services that are reasonably close to each other. But all of this is possible to get back to, and we're going to follow up as best we can.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e1437	This question, from the representative of Åse Gunhild Woie Duesund to the Minister for Health and Health, will be raised by the representative of Kjell Ingolf Ropstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e1440	I am delighted to present the following questions: ‘The waiting time for morbid obesity surgery is actually up to 10 years in a number of hospitals. This is a clear violation of the purpose of the Patient Rights Act. Patients entitled to health care due to serious illness shall not wait for years for effective treatment. For the patient group concerned, waiting time leads to disease progression as well as co-morbidity such as diabetes, joint pain, cancer and mental illness. What will the Council of State do to reduce the waiting time for operations of patients with morbid obesity?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e1449	Obesity and obesity are increasing in Norway, both among children, young people and adults. And as the representative points out, morbidly overweight is a risk factor for several serious diseases. Therefore, special attention has been paid to this patient group in recent years, and this has led to an increase in treatment provision in both surgery and lifestyle change. Prevention, of course, is important from a public health point of view. Motivating for varied diets and increased physical activity is a significant contribution to avoiding and reducing obesity and thus preventing a number of health problems. But on top of that comes the genetics that you don't have much control over. It is also important that patients who are morbidly obese and who are at risk of developing serious complications receive a good health care offer. In recent years, the provision of this patient group as mentioned has improved significantly. All regional health establishments have established regional centres responsible for developing treatment provision for this patient group. They are now offering surgical treatment, and most have launched or have been planning life-changing offers. In the past, approx. 20 patients operated on a year, now more than 250 are operated on. It is particularly important to develop good treatment provision for severely overweight children and young people. Therefore, the Social and Health Directorate has been allocated funds to support projects for this patient group, both in the primary health care and in the specialist healthcare service. Projects shall contribute to the development and evaluation of better treatment responses. Ullevål University Hospital HF has also received funds in the last two years to develop a treatment offer for severely obese children. In addition, such offers are under development, including: at St. Olav's Hospital in Trondheim and in Health Bergen HF. The Patient Rights Act and the prioritisation Regulation have clear criteria for granting the right to necessary health care. In the regulation, as the representative is well aware, there are three criteria for priorities: one is the severity of the condition, the other is the expected effect of health care, and the third is the cost of impact. The Patient Rights Act provides for an individual treatment deadline for patients who are granted the right to the necessary health care. This is assessed for each patient and based on medical criteria. If this time limit is exceeded, the patient is entitled to be offered treatment at home or abroad. In other words, there shall be medical indications in the individual patient who has been granted the right to the necessary health care, which shall determine when he is to be treated. As the representative points out, the intention of the Patient Rights Act is also valid for this patient group – let it be clear. In my opinion, regional health firms have now taken part in developing the treatment provision to seriously obese people in a good way. However, the treatment provision for this group is still in a construction phase – that means we have a good deal left – and then, of course, there will often be cows in the start-up phase. That is why I want to assure the representative that I will follow this closely with regard to the development of the treatment provision for this group in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e1464	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I want to stress that the waiting time is really up to ten years. A patient such as coming to the Aker Hospital obese unit, will have a conversation with a nutrition physiologist within one year. Then they will often be referred to long wait. As a matter of fact, it will take up to 10 years for patients to receive the treatment they require. Does the Council of State consider it medically sound that patients only have that conversation with a nutrition physiologist, and does the Council of State believe that the completely necessary operation should not be included in the waiting period, and that this is therefore not considered a breach of the Patient Rights Act?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e1473	Let me first say that I fully agree that there are many who suffer from this, who are waiting too long. There is also a background for a much greater pressure to develop more treatment provision in all our health regions. If there are examples of ten years waiting time, it is clear that of course I fully agree that it is too long. It is clear that one must succeed, and that must also be followed up. Then I just stress, as I said in my main response, that the intention of the Patient Rights Act with clear deadlines etc. also applies to this patient group. Of course, to the extent that there is a breach of the Patient Rights Act, it must be followed up.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e1478	I thank you again for a good answer. People suffering from morbid obesity often get into an evil circle, where a combination of overeating and lack of exercise leads to a severe deterioration of the disease image. What these people need is an operation and a treatment aftercare. The Council of State is probably aware that there is such an offer in East Agder at the Evjeklinik. At the European clinic, there is good professional competence, and treatment is offered in advance and also a five-year treatment scheme after the operation. This is especially developed for the patient group that we are talking about here, and the results are good. However, the capacity of the ERC is not fully exploited. How will the State Council ensure such a nationwide offer for obesity patients? And what will the Council of State do to make full use of existing treatment capacities?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e1489	It is important that we take advantage of the treatment options we actually have in places that can carry out these types of operations — also that one does so in advance, and follows up afterwards. I can therefore promise that I will still have strong pressure to build up more offers in all regions. I'll check out what the representative here says about the Evjeklinik. If it is that there is capacity there that is not being exploited, I will get hold of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e1498	I have the following questions for the Minister of Health and Welfare: ‘The management of the St. Olavs Hospital has notified the closure of 80 beds in total on 1 May. This is how the hospital will save 80 million. kr on an annual basis. Among the worst-hit patient groups, chronic orthopaedic patients are: The cuts are a consequence of the balance requirements imposed on the hospital, combined with the fact that the Council of State has so far not been willing to cover the additional costs incurred by the hospital during the construction of a new hospital. What initiative will the Council of State take to remedy the situation at the St. Olavs Hospital?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e1507	As the representative is of course well aware, Stortinget has called for the financial balance of regional health businesses in 2006. This is not a new requirement. In general, one should not spend more money than the Stortinget provides. I have also followed up on this in my management requirements for health companies. It is right and important that health businesses take these governance signals seriously, and in order to achieve the operational balance objective, all regional health businesses have implemented a series of migration measures. As shown by the review carried out by the internal audit of the St. Olavs Hospital of the conversion measures in the health undertaking, St. Olavs Hospital has not paid sufficient attention to implementing them, which has resulted in a significant operating deficit in 2005. This is an imbalance that Health Mid-Norway and St. Olav's Hospital must correct. With regard to the notified savings requirements to which the representative Burnde refers, I would like to clarify the following: In the start-up phase of such processes, proposals will very often be made that will not be realised. It is available per year. today no final package of measures at the St. Olavs Hospital to which the board of Health Mid-Norway has joined. It is important that, in this case too, one maintains the lines of responsibility established in health establishments. I would like to remind you that in my 2006 management of healthcare companies, I have argued that measures should not have negative consequences for patient treatment or the medication of patients. All those who are entitled to the necessary help and treatment will receive this. This is also true in Trondheim. As regards the representative Burnde’s claim that the conversion measures amounting to 80 million. Due to the fact that I have not been willing to cover the extra costs incurred by the hospital during the construction of a new hospital, I will show that last year St. Olav's Hospital had a deficit of nearly 400 million. SEK, of which just under 100 million. kr applies to the additional costs raised by Burnde. The measures now under consideration at St. Olav's Hospital are therefore aimed at achieving a balance in the normal operation of the hospital, not at covering the additional costs of operating two hospitals in the construction phase. With regard to the so-called extra costs of St. Olav's Hospital, I will also allow myself to remind the representative Burnde that the then Minister of Health and Care from Brende's party, Right, and that government Burnde himself was a member of, nor would they cover these extra costs last year, but let these be part of the performance requirement that was set for Health Mid-Norway this year. I have a great deal of understanding for that. Health Mid-Norway is through the special allocations given by the State to the St. Olav extension, the region that has received the most money to build hospitals – a total of SEK 4.4 billion. In contrast to other regions, this region has also been promised an additional 140 million. kr annually in a permanent increase in income in order to address challenges related to, inter alia, the development of the new hospital. Health Mid-Norway is therefore in a special position to be prioritised, compared to the other health regions. In the context of the 2006 economic balance-sheet challenges, Health Mid-Norway and St. Olavs Hospital – in line with all other regions and hospitals – must have control of costs, in order to match the revenues made available. I trust that the region and the hospital will have increased focus on the necessary changes to deal with the overall challenge picture. However, I will not hide the fact that Health Mid-Norway is facing a very demanding situation. I therefore want close dialogue with and close follow-up of Health Mid-Norway in 2006.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e1522	Earlier today, in the spontaneous questioning session, the Minister of Health said she was proud of the job she has done in St. Olav's Hospital. I have to say that I am quite upset that the health minister can say that she is proud of a situation where the result now is that bed beds are laid down and the health cows in Central Norway will increase. What upsets me the most is the contrast to the great promises that the red-greens had in the election campaign. Listening to Sylvia Brustad today makes me think about it. At that time, the current government councils Giske and Djupedal went out and said that it was helpless by the Right, and they accused Health Minister Ansgar Gabrielsen not to set up and cover the additional costs of hospital development. There was very strong criticism that the psychiatrist wasn't in place. When will the Workers' Party bring in the hundreds of millions of dollars that they guaranteed in the election campaign? The Minister of Health can't get away with that!
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e1531	First of all, I have not said that I am ‘pride over’ the situation at St. Olav’s Hospital. I have said that I have ‘no bad conscience’ for what I, and this government, have done to St. Olav for the five short months we have been sitting. Let me first say: St. Olav is going to be, and is, a modern hospital that means a lot both for that region and for other parts of the country in some areas. The hospital is in a difficult situation, but this government gave St. Olav NOK 2.9 billion in December – two months after we took over – to complete phase 1. We've made promises of 140 million. kr to that region – not least to complete phase 2 – as a permanent amount. That means $2.8 billion. We've given more money to the hospitals in total, which also benefits this region. Børge Brende and his co-representatives in this process have been involved in imposing a balance sheet requirement to be met. So I have ‘no bad conscience’ for what the government has done in this matter. That it is demanding, yes, but I hope Børge Brende realizes that St. Olav must also have better cost control than the situation there per. today.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e1540	On 14 September, the representative of the Grand Duchy of Giske stated on the delivery of electoral commitments already in the autumn in connection with the additional pro-position of the Government of the State concerned to the State budget: psychiatricians, landslide reversal and state contribution to the financing plan. The SEK 2.9 billion mentioned by the Council of State is money that was already granted. It came in the effusion of this government, and it was paid in one year instead of over three years. These are additional grants to St. Olav's Hospital, which was guaranteed by the Workers' Party – so it is printed in Addressaviesta that it was to be delivered already last autumn. It was cleared with the party management, and you don't see anything about it. The 80 million. kr, as St. Olav now has to cut – cut in bed posts, cut in the existing health service – is the result of not getting up with this money. There are strong reactions in Central Norway to not taking responsibility for this situation, and I think the Council of State should have a bad conscience for not lifting a finger to follow up its own election promises.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e1547	I think it's a good rule to sweep at your own door. In this case I have to say that the government Børge Burnde sail was a member of, would not cover these extra costs for the last year. If the budget proposed by the government of Børge Brende was a member, the years it was overthrown had been adopted in the Stortinget – which, fortunately, it was not – it would have been 260 million. kr less to St. Olav every year. The new government has granted more money specifically to St. Olav, and SEK 2.9 billion over a year is not small money. The previous government did not send out that, and we have given promises of DKK 2.8 billion for the rest, which no other region has been promised. So I hope in the further debate that you can be honest and open in relation to what you have contributed to, and what he criticizes others for. I'm very aware of the situation at St. Olav. I'm going to visit them in the near future, and I'm going to take it very seriously. But it's not that some hospitals can get in the front row and just ask for more money, while others have to stay within the framework.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e1562	This question, from the representative of Trond Helleland to the Minister for Renewal and Administration, will be raised by the representative of Øyvind Halleraker.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e1565	I have a question for the Minister of Renewal and Administration: ‘13. In March, the Council of State postponed MinSide, the electronic service office, indefinitely. The project was on track when the government joined Stoltenberg. The main challenges that require considerable political attention have also in the past been the coordination between MinSide and the state budgets that provide services and the dissemination of approved eID solutions. What will the State Council do to improve the progress of the project, and when can the inhabitants make use of MinSide?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e1574	Let me first give tribute to former Minister of Modernization Morten Andreas Meyer for an important initiative to give the inhabitants a simpler meeting with the public sector. MiSide shall provide citizens with a common access to public dialogue with and electronic services. To get to MiSide, a secure login is required, and so the Security Portal is established as a common infrastructure for the entire public sector, not just for Altin, who has been a user since December, or for MiSide, where we have now started a pilot. I opened the security portal in the middle of December. The portal is up and standing, and we're testing MiSide in relation to the Security Portal. The Security Portal shall make it easier for both municipal and state enterprises to achieve secure electronic interaction. At the same time, users who already have an electronic ID for other purposes should also be able to use it in public websites. The government of Stoltenberg has great ambitions in this area, because it is important to realise the goals we have seen in the Soria Moria declaration of digitisation of services, and not least for the renewal of the public sector. The technical solution for MiSide has been in place for a while, and we are now running a pilot for all those added to the seven levels that provide services to the side, and for those added to my own department. That's how we're going to get out wrong, and we're going to see what we have to do even better before we can present the whole page to the people. The establishment of the MiSide and the Public Security Portal provide a very complex interaction between many public enterprises, market players and different technical solutions. The previous government suggested that market players should provide the inhabitants with electronic ID and signature, which could also be used for these public services. And that's where it's come up with challenges associated with the electronic ID market in Norway. Thus, it has proved more demanding than one previously believed to have suppliers deliver their services in the Common Security Portal for the public sector. Out of the population, electronic IDs are not particularly widely used in the Security Portal, and pilot assessments show that the use also needs to be simpler. So the launch can't happen until we've got a secure login that's simple, so the inhabitants won't be able to make it long before they get the portal in use. When a driving pilot works, there is a risk that challenges arise that take time to solve. I think that one has underestimated the complexity of the work, and one has been too optimistic when setting a timetable. I want to correct the representative Halleraker in relation to the fact that the project should be on track when the government of Stoltenberg took over. Throughout the project period, a regular risk analysis has been carried out. Through these risk analyses, both before and after the government change, it has been known in the department, and by my predecessors, that there was a high risk associated with the timetable and that there was a great chance that the launch of MiSide would have to be postponed. I remember that State Council Meyer himself postponed the launch by six months, last summer. What I am currently doing is, in cooperation with Brønnøysundregistra, who manages the agreement on the Security Portal, to assess the business model for the Security Portal. We are forced to find a model that is more attractive, both for public enterprises that need solutions for secure communications, and for the providers of electronic ID and signature. I can promise the representative Halleraker that we will work around the clock. Even today, my department meets with the actors involved, so we have a very high level of pressure and ambition about this. But we can't launch something that's not good enough for our people, because that's kind of crazy. It must be safe and easy to use when we first simplify the public sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e1595	I thank you for your answer. It is good to hear that the Council of State is holding high pressure on this. I am familiar with the fact that State Council Meyer, just before he left, was assured that the project was on track. If cooperation between banks and BankID and other ID providers stops the project, could it be natural to consider other options? Important public-sector IT projects cannot stop while we wait for other actors. My question is: will the Council of State take the initiative to issue its own eIDs and eSignatures to its citizens, as has been done in, for example: Denmark, and thus ensure that many people can use MinSide as quickly as possible?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e1606	Now it is the previous government that has decided that one should let the market fix this with electronic ID. It's a known Right cause that a wish for the market to settle. Then we see that the market was not as developed as we had hoped and believed. Already in 1999, the computer and IT press announced that a trusted one was rolling out electronic identity, and that one would have this very quickly in place. Now we write in 2006, and still it's a little bit so that the suppliers are waiting for the services, and those who provide the services, sit and wait for us to have enough suppliers of electronic ID. We've said that we want to start a dialogue with both the banks and others who provide electronic IDs to see if we can't solve this now. That's the model you've chosen, and you've been working on it for years. We have to see if we can't solve it. We've had a lot of meetings, and we're going to have more meetings. In parallel with this, we look at other possibilities, yes, also the possibility that Halleraker's representative had.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e1615	I thank you again for the answer. Some of the most eye-catching is actually not that the project is deferred, even if it is done once again by this council, and it is serious enough. The most perceptive thing is that the project is suspended indefinitely. I have not seen any indication of what month, what quarter or what year the residents can expect to use MinSide. I believe that it is healthy that the public imposes temptations, and that we strive to try to comply with them. It makes it possible to verify that the authorities are doing what they are supposed to do and to ensure that important projects do not die a silent death, so to speak. My question is: does the Council of State agree that it is important to set deadlines for the completion of important projects such as MinSide, and can we now get a new date for people to enjoy MinSide?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e1624	There have been many deadlines set for MiSide work. The former minister, Meyer from the Right, had to postpone his own project by six months. With the same thing I took over, I was presented quite quickly as a challenge that we had to have a new postponement, for various reasons and decisions that were taken long before my time. We dance with the same decisions that were made before my time, the easy choice of business model and the choice of operators associated with the delivery of electronic ID. That's the two challenges we're now working on. I am set to follow up the decisions made by the previous minister. I think there were good solutions. But one had put too tight a time span to be able to solve these challenges. So we're going to remember that we're the first country in the world to achieve this. I'm pretty sure – I hope so – that we will have this page up to stand as soon as possible, preferably before summer for my part. But it's pointless to give you a new date if you're not quite sure that you can actually deliver, because then you only get a new one. That would be very unfortunate. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e1631	So we go back to question 6.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e1638	This question, from the representative Per Roar Bredvold to the Minister for Transport, will be answered by the Minister for Agriculture and Food on behalf of the Minister for Transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e1641	I would like to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions, which are answered by the Minister for Agriculture and Food: ‘Medium-sized cars between 3.5 and 7.5 tonnes are not allowed to run faster than 80 km/h, although the speed limit may be both 90 and 100 km/h in some places. Many of these cars are private cars/company cars and are therefore used as normal passenger cars. Does the Council of State see that the regulations, which were first adopted in 1957 and re-examined in 1986, have not taken into account the development of the car park in Norway?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e1650	It is right that motor vehicles with a maximum permissible laden weight exceeding 3500 kg or motor vehicles with a trailer should not drive faster than 80 km/h if the speed limit is higher. These restrictions have been set in the interests of road safety. Heavy-duty vehicles need longer braking distances, have lower manoeuvrability and represent a greater accident risk than light-duty vehicles. For this reason, in most countries the speed limit for heavier vehicles is lower than that otherwise applicable. The difference between the speed limits for heavy and light vehicles is smaller in Norway than in most other countries. I am also concerned with the overall impact of heavier vehicles, including the so-called SUVs, on road safety, and in particular the risks such vehicles pose to the others who travel in the traffic image. In response to similar questions from the representative Bredvold to former Minister for Transport Torild Skogsholm on 19 February 2003, it was opened to assess the consequences of opening up higher speeds for vehicles with driving characteristics similar to passenger cars. New knowledge of SUVs and other slightly larger vehicles, especially of the collision between such cars and normal passenger cars, suggests that the safety of such heavier vehicles is at the expense of the safety of normal passenger cars. This is further reinforced at higher speeds. I therefore see no need to change the rules in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e1657	I thank the Council of State for the answer, but I am sorry that the answer was as it was. I had thought that we had come a little further today than when I asked the question three years ago, because then you promised to look at it. I understand you've done that, but you've come up with the same thing. I find it strange that a bus that carries – let's say – 50 passengers, a bus that weighs many times more kilograms than, for example. a Chevrolet Tahoe, shall be allowed to run up to 20 km faster than a SUV car. There's a lot of buses running, and there's also a lot of SUV cars running, and I don't understand this difference, but because we have it, the SUVs become a danger in traffic, because they can't follow the speed of traffic that is, and thus create a safety risk. The fact that these types of cars are less roadworthy is also quite strange. They're in control every year, so I don't understand this.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e1666	The reasoning is based on matters of weight and what happens if the accident is out. Whether the speed of buses should be adjusted in relation to SUVs and other slightly smaller vehicles, I will not go into, but it is a fact that other road users are exposed to a greater hazard in a vehicle with a higher weight than in a vehicle with a slightly lower weight. That's probably pretty obvious.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e1671	I thank the Council of State for its comments. It is clear that a bus can drive 100 km/h, and it does, while for example. a Chevrolet Tahoe is only allowed to drive 80 km/h, and that is the difference that I think is completely wrong. When it comes to road safety, it would be thought to apply to everyone, whether you are in a small Nissan Micra, for example, or a large SUV car. We're all concerned that road safety should be good. I think the braking effect is a lot better in a new American family car than it is, for example. is in a small European car. I think, therefore, that we are talking about two very different things, and in order for it to be floated in traffic, it must be an advantage that everyone can drive just as fast.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e1678	The representative of Bredvold compares a Nissan Micra with a Chevrolet Tahoe. I guess there's just some of the problem here in the cases where the accident is actually out. In isolation, enough safety is ensured in large cars. What lies in the mindset behind a differentiated max speed is the consequences for other road users, not for those who are drivers/passengers in the big cars.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e1683	So we go to question No. 18, the last.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e1690	‘In the Soria Moria Declaration, there is a goal of 15 pst. of the agricultural products produced here by country shall be organically produced before 2015. Demand for organic products is increasing, and there are, in part, problems in getting enough goods. Nevertheless, production flattens out because gardeners do not find it profitable to produce organically. What measures will the Government put in place to achieve the objective of increasing organic production?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e1697	Lack of demand has been a significant bottleneck for the development of the organic market and agriculture. To date, consumers have asked for limited quantities of organic products and there have been major challenges related to the placing on the market of both organic meat, milk and cereals. This situation has affected the basis for farmers to convert organic production. Many manufacturers have therefore taken a waiting attitude, and some have even chosen to return to conventional production. It is of course absolutely central to the farmer's motivation both that people actually get access to the products they produce, and that the market is willing to pay for these products. An additional price is absolutely necessary if organic producers are to have a satisfactory economy. I am therefore pleased that much now indicates that the market situation is changing. In 2005, we saw a strong increase in sales of organic products, and good developments appear to continue in 2006. I met with the big market players last Monday, and the signals were very positive, for example. Tine doubled its sales of organic milk products in 2005. Tine now lacks organic milk and is looking for new producers. The turnover and demand for organic meat have also increased significantly. The chain competes at both price and range to be the best in the ecological class. More and more consumers are in demand of organic food, and sales in the store increased by 30-40 pst in 2005. But it has to be said that it's from a low point of view. Farmers are professional economic operators producing the market demand. With increased demand in the market for organic products, I am convinced that more people will see it as attractive to convert organic farming. At the same time, I would like to stress that I am aware of the economic challenges facing organic producers. If the Government's objectives are to be achieved, we are totally dependent on several producers converting to organic farming, and that as many as possible of those who have already converted see that there is a meaningful line of operations to continue. These are questions that I am working on, and which I want to bring in as part of this year's agricultural negotiations. By having a concrete long-term goal, the Government wants to give a clear signal to both producers and the processing and marketing sectors that the commitment to organic agricultural production is, firstly, forward-looking, and, secondly, that it can be done with a certain long-termity, and also with certainty that we from the political side will support the commitment. Organic farming is a common area of activity for the entire Government, and in the coming months a cross-ministerial working group will explore how the Government's objectives can be achieved.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e1708	It is good to right that the Council of State now says that this is being worked on, but I could well imagine that he said a little about how it is being worked on. I also hear that he wants to take it with him in the agricultural negotiations. In fact, even though there is a lot of positive, the production has gone flat. Fewer wants to run with it. And then I want to ask questions about whether the Council of State has thought about the potential that the public can secure the purchase of organic food, for example. to public canteens, schools, hospitals, hospitals, etc. It will be able to secure off-takes and smoother deliveries.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e1718	The situation for organic production has been, as I began to say, a lack of demand. My approach is therefore that getting a commitment to organic production that is not based on a real demand in the market is a little forward-looking. So point 1 is that we have to put a larger demand in place. This must take place in a dialogue with shops, chains and market players, and through informing consumers about the quality of organic products. That's point one. As far as public matters are concerned, my input corresponds to what the representative here says, that we should look at public canteens, public agencies and public procurement policies in relation to organic products. And just what I finished my last post, namely, that the government has now put down a cross-ministerial group, it shows the entrance. I believe that success in this area requires more than the involvement of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food. That's that part of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e1727	I understand that there is a bet on information, and that there is a bet on shops and chains. That's how it's been done so far. We see that the demand is not even enough and not sure enough. In paragraph 2, the Council of State answers that he will also look at the public, and that there will be distribution work. I want the Council of State to say something a little more sober about it, whether it is a good idea that it takes a greater responsibility here in public, with the possibilities they have for fixed purchases.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e1734	I don't think I can say so much more than what I just said, because it lies as part of the work that this working group is now going to work on. We've been doing this for a few months now. In the last period of government, a few years were spent, without one coming so far. So we need some more time to look at which concrete measures are the most effective in achieving the goal we have. The thing about using public institutions as part of this, I've now been to a couple of times. That's what I think is a way to work on. In addition, through the instrument of agricultural policy, we also need to stimulate production to adapt to consumption and to be able to raise both production and consumption. But, as I said, the starting point has been that there has been too low demand. It's a development that we're now seeing going in the right direction, and it gives opportunities that are significant beyond what has been before.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-29.ana.ud2478e1743	Thus, Stortinget has managed to complete today's map. Is there anyone who wants to ask for the word under Rule 37(a) of the Rules of Procedure? - The meeting is over.
