ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28-2.ana.ud716e72	First of all, I want to thank the other red-green comrades in the finance committee and the government for their very good budget work. This budget shows that we have a government and a red-green majority who prioritise different from the previous government. The red-greens prioritise community, well-being and security over tax havens and the success of each one's own smith. The government parties promised in the elections that they would invest in well-being and in common, and it is clear from this budget that they do. They turn the course as was, and deliver red-green policy. In addition to delivering in the various areas, the Government and the Red-Greens here in Stortinget also show that it is equally important for people to have the security of an economic policy that provides security for homes and homes. Therefore, the Government considers that the rule of action should be followed, which is important both for the governor and for several economists if one is not to receive an interest rate increase that will affect more families and households. Taking the control that it is possible to take in this area, the red-greens – with the government at the head – look very important. I myself have been in the start-up phase and had interest rates of 16 pst. I managed so far to keep my head above the water, and that's a situation that I don't think anyone should be in. I see that left and right cutters with billions and approx. One billion kroner in its alternative budget to cool down the economy. It is with respect to report a tiny drop in the high seas that has little or no significance for the interest rate level. Actually, I think they know that. What's dramatic, and all the parties should worry about, is that the Progress Party spends over 25 billion dollars more than all of us. To the right it must be a cross of thought, cf. that the Right considers cooperating with them at the next crossroads. Don't worry about them, at least there should worry people out there who are concerned about home and home security. The government prioritises children and young people very high in this budget. The fact that a final child care coverage will be completed by the end of 2007, and that at a price of around NOK 2 300, that is a joyous matter. Every year, one has said this, but one has not done it. Infant families have been waiting and waiting, and we have been waiting with them. Now it's finally coming. Many of us never got kindergarten, and when some of us finally got it, the price was so high that it was difficult to accept. With another government, one today would not be standing there, with full child care coverage at the end of 2007, and with a price that we now charge. The fact that the government made these priorities so clear and clear, gives the small children's parents freedom, and, as the Minister of Finance said in his speech earlier today, it also allows people to go out to work. If there's anything that Norway AS needs, it's that people go out to work. And they can do it with security and at a price that's affordable. Another thing that I think is historic is that we're now going to start the job of getting free textbooks in high school. Now we're going to take the first step in 2007, and then this is going to be stepped up and in place in 2009. It is also one of the matters that one in every year has talked about and talked about, but with the exception of Trond Giske, who managed to do a little bit last time he was the Council of State. I note that several of the opposition parties do not have this in their budget. This case is incredibly important and means an incredible amount to people's wallets. Privately, I have spent NOK 6 000 – 7 000 on school supplies for my daughter, who is now in the first high school. It's not a pity for my family and me, but there are many of them for whom this is a huge sum, for which they have difficulty getting out. There was a lady who called me in the fall and said that for her there was now the choice between buying school books for her son or winter tires for her car, in which she was to carry all three of her kids. She wondered if I could tell her what to do. She was confronted with some difficult choices, as it was impossible for her to take. Like that, I mean we can't have it. That is why we want further education to be free of charge. Once we have prioritised kindergarten, primary and secondary education, there will be no increase to universities and colleges this time. For the state wallet is just like my wallet – one can use some of what's in it, but it's not exhaustive. It's not the state either. So this time we give priority to kindergarten, primary and secondary education. Never has one ever put as much emphasis on culture as one does now. An increase in the cultural budget by billions of dollars, I know I'm enjoying a lot of a cultural heart over the whole country. I see from the alternative budget of the Progress Party that they believe that culture should not be an area of commitment for the state. They also mean the same thing locally. They say we support the narrow culture that people don't want. Freedom and commitment shall drive culture more or less, says the Progress Party. Now, when the government increases the cultural budget as uneasily as it does, it does just so that the whole breadth of culture and volunteering will make room for further growth. We just want to build up and strengthen volunteering, commitment and the fires. Nor – I was saying – will be able to live on buttons and slides if they are to be able to keep this going. People – ordinary people at our home – electives now to Rogaland Theatre to see Bjørn Eidsvåg’s play «Discovered Heaven». It would not have been possible for anyone, or at least very few, if there had not been support for the Rogaland Theatre from both the state, the municipality and the county. So volunteering and cultural life should rely on this government now and again on the road to make a strong contribution to the whole field of culture and volunteering, giving people something to live for – both football, museum, choir and film, and the whole mountain range of culture. So it's like this government is also doing something that's incredibly important. It looks 'outside the Fäder guy', as Thorbjørn Berntsen always said, and I think it's well said. This government is taking responsibility for seeing beyond our own borders, and for people beyond our own borders to have a better life. This shows that the red-greens are operating solidarity in practice. The government has a measure that we're going to use 1 pst. of GDP on aid, and that target is soon to come. The goal in itself is not important, but the fact that as one of the world's richest countries, we take responsibility for being part of and lifting up the vast majority of people living in poverty and need is incredibly important. We give hope for the future with our aid money and our assistance program that more people will live worthwhile lives and get a better daily life and new opportunities. Then it's not just our responsibility, it's also our duty to do what we do in that context. In his opening address to the Stortinget in the fall, President Thorbjørn Jagland reminded us representatives of something that I think is incredibly important: that we, who are elected here in this Chamber, have a special responsibility for those who do not have the highest voice, or those who do not have the strongest back. We have a special responsibility to speak their case. I think it was an important reminder. We people elected in this room also have a special responsibility for sometimes – I kept saying – sticking my finger in the ground and saying that after all, most of us have it quite well, and many of us are actually a little lottomionaires every day, unlike people in other countries. When I listened to the representative Tybring-Gjedde today, a VG drawing appeared in my head that was in the paper once at the end of the 1990s, with him thickening the man who was lying there with a diaphragm and a huge stomach and was so saturated that he was completely irritated. It just fell into my head when I listened to the representative Tybring-Gjeded's description of Norwegian society. I don't think that's a good picture of what kind of society we have. I don't think that's a good picture of what kind of society we're going to have. Finally, I believe that the red-greens are on their way with a new course towards the goals we have set ourselves, towards the job we have started and promised we will do to fulfill our promises. I am very pleased to continue and worked for the next three years on a red-green budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28-2.ana.ud716e116	It's going to be line change. Then it fits well to give the word to Tybring-Gjedde, which is the first replicant!
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28-2.ana.ud716e121	Yes, we are so good here in the country that we have been told to stop complaining, especially after the red-green government took over. We should be almost ashamed of ourselves, we should listen to Sund, where we squander in our wealth. But in fact, there are some conditions in this society that are not so good, namely that many feel insecure in everyday life, many feel alienated in Norway, in their own neighborhood, and discipline in school is a shortcoming. What does the government intend to do with this? How do you get the discipline back and respect for authorities? Or is it that one should try to get out of all this, and say that well-being increases, well-being increases? What about the 246 000 minimum pensioners who live on NOK 95 000 per year? And what about the 340,000 disabled? When you talk about everything going so well, you also get to take responsibility for everything that doesn't go so well. What does the Government intend to do especially with the things you can't afford out of?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28-2.ana.ud716e128	I tried to make myself visible that I had two thoughts in my head at the same time. It is quite right that the representative Tybring-Gjedde says that there are many people in this country who are not doing well either. But there's also something about that sometimes lifting your eyes and seeing how the vast majority of us are doing. Those who are not doing well in Norwegian society are just some of them that this government is lifting up through various measures. It's about minimum pensioners, it's about poverty reduction – I can frame cases on a case-by-case basis. So I do not agree with the representative Tybring-Kept that the government is sitting with its hands in jail and is not looking at those who are not doing well. That's exactly where we put our strength in relation to the appropriations we give.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28-2.ana.ud716e133	I perceive that the representative Sund has a great heart, a much greater heart than what is found in the Government, especially in the case of the poor outside our borders. Doesn't the representative Eirin Sund see that there's a point to pick people up permanently out of poverty? The ability to do that is just to combine targeted assistance with trade. The right now submits a proposal in the Grand Duchy, with a budget, to allow 90 new countries in addition to the MUL countries to sell duty-free to Norway. Does Eirin Sund see that there is one possibility – and perhaps the best opportunity – and also the possibility that the developing countries themselves demand – that they may be permanently drawn out of poverty and thus get a better working life?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28-2.ana.ud716e138	I can reassure the representative Gitmark that the government sees that there are many opportunities it can take to combat poverty. The government also discusses internal issues in relation to how best to get out of it. So now the government and the red-green have decided that one of the things we want to do to combat poverty is help. But what I can say to the representative Gitmark is that we will always be involved in seeing with our eyes whether we can achieve better results in a way that is different from what we are doing now through the programmes and instruments we have for how we use the aid. The policy is consistent with what we think about trade.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28-2.ana.ud716e147	I must say that it is refreshing with such an enthusiastic post as the representative Sund had. In style, it's almost 20, I really have to say. In terms of content, I have to be a little bit more careful. It may be misunderstood in so many directions, I have noticed before today. In fact, there was shrewd sky all over the mountain, to sum up what the representative Sund said. But she had some concerns. It was not least the level of interest, and therefore the housing costs for the most people. Earlier today, we have actually been told that the Central Party may be in the process of reviving its interest in limiting the interest deduction on debt, of which many have benefited, and benefit, among other things. in order to pay their mortgages. It would mean a lot too many if this were changed. That's why I ask the representative, Sund: is it that the Workers' Party will think again, if necessary, about assessing the interest deduction on debt?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28-2.ana.ud716e154	I would like to thank Mr Syversen for his fine words. The representative Syversen and the representative Sund have a share in common with the things I raised, and I am very pleased about that. With regard to the Syversen's questions in relation to interest rebates or one, and what has been said in the pulpit here earlier today, I will refer to Reidar Sandal, who answered that question very well earlier today. It is clear what we have said, and it must be established.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28-2.ana.ud716e159	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28-2.ana.ud716e162	Previous speeches were definitely not about health policy, but in that sector it is absolutely not plain heaven either. The goal of health policy is for the Christian People's Party good health care when you need it, equal offer in the country, regardless of residence, age, education, disease or injury. Municipalities must be able to meet the large increase in the number of older people coming in the years to come. We also know that several elderly people will suffer from complex disorders and serious malfunctions. In addition, the number of younger users of home services has almost doubled in the last ten years and is almost 1/3 of recipients. Future care challenges need to be met offensively, in order to ensure adequate competence, quality and content. The everyday life of the elderly, disabled and chronically ill must be given a content in which they are concerned, can live a life that they themselves want. The Christian People's Party had expected a more committed care plan for the care services then St.meld. No 25 for 2005-2006, on future care services, was provided. We also expected concrete appropriations to strengthen care services in the 2007 budget. In addressing the challenge of future care challenges, it is essential to achieve a cross-political lift and a commitment plan. In the case of hospitals, the Christian People's Party has proposed 250 million in its 2007 alternative budget. kr more for patient treatment. Several health firms are in a challenging situation, and we see that hospital cuts are now affecting patients. Strengthening patient treatment in healthcare businesses will give more time to change and prioritisation. It is absolutely necessary to review the income systems and distribution systems in order to assess whether they are fair and correct and that they do so quickly. Rehabilitation is an important part of patient treatment and care provision. The Christian People's Party has therefore made proposals to legislate for the right to necessary rehabilitation. This will focus on the crucial role that rehabilitation plays in enabling people to return to work after illness, or can do better in everyday life. This will increase the quality of life for many, while having a socio-economic impact. With regard to the provision of rehabilitation services in health establishments, this is very unevenly distributed. The Christian People's Party therefore proposes in its alternative budget to give $20 million. To strengthen rehabilitation provision in the West of Health, to ensure rehabilitation closer to where the patient lives, and to smooth out some of the differences we see. The Christian People's Party also proposes to strengthen the supply of mental health for children and young people with 100 million. kr in the alternative budget. The government itself points out some of the shortcomings in today's psychiatry offer in its draft budget. Then it is strange that the original escalation plan is not followed. The Christian People's Party also suggests that relatives and children of the mentally ill are better included in the psychiatry. These are the ones that follow the patients tightest, over time. They will therefore also need guidance, support and good information. Private non-profit institutions need to be given a clearer role and function. They can play an important role in providing drug addicts with a decent treatment offer, and also an offer pending treatment in the specialist healthcare service, as well as providing good aftercare. The Christian People's Party has helped secure 20 million. More to those addicted to drugs through private non-profit institutions. Very many drug addicts are rejected when applying for detoxification sites today. The institutions that are now receiving increased grants can meet some of their demand. Finally, I would like to point out that the Christian People's Party's alternative budget provides a far better offer for sick and caring than the government puts up.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28-2.ana.ud716e191	If we are to achieve sustainable development, with lower environmental pressures and reduced resource use, environmental considerations must be integrated into the whole of society. Environmental considerations must underpin economic policy and sectoral policies. The government's 2007 draft budget is based on this recognition. The total environmental protection-related appropriations in the 2007 budget are estimated at around NOK 23 billion, compared with around EUR 15 billion. 20 billion in 2006. This is an increase of 15 pst. Never before has a government spent as much on the environment as this one – in all sectors of society. But we are facing major challenges. Let me focus here on two, climate policy and measures to reduce NOx emissions. We already have a broad instrument in place that affects most greenhouse gas emissions. But more is required if we are to be able to reverse the negative developments in Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions. This government is committed to meeting Norway's emissions obligations under the Kyoto Protocol, and we must ensure that significant parts of our commitment are taken nationally. This is ambitious, but necessary. In the 2007 budget, we are taking an important step towards integrating climate considerations into sectoral policies. We've put off between 700 million. NOK 800 million and 800 million. kr for CO2 handling. A Basic Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy Fund will be established on 1 January 2007. The fund is worth DKK 10 billion and will be increased by a new DKK 10 billion in 2009. This will generate an annual return of 800 million. which is allocated to the Energy Fund. This will more than double the effort on energy efficiency and renewable energy. We're adding to a historically high commitment to renewal and capacity expansion on the railway. In this way, we provide the basis for transferring more freight and passenger transport to rail and reducing the extent of environmentally harmful road transport. The transport sector is a key area of work to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. We take the first steps in the conversion of car charges in a more environmentally friendly direction. With effect from 1 January 2007, the Government proposes that CO2 emissions replace cylinder capacity as a charging component of the one-off charge. Climate action must continue. It will take a great deal of effort in the years to come, in order to bring social development into a more climate-friendly direction. The Government also proposes the imposition of a charge on NOx emissions from 1 January 2007. The government has placed great emphasis on reducing emissions without unnecessarily high economic pressures on industries. We will follow up on the announcement by Stortinget that there is a derogation from the charging obligation for the entities that join environmental agreements with the State on concrete, fixed-term emission reductions. Our NOx emissions are well above the level to which we have committed ourselves under the Gothenburg Protocol, and the emission commitment period is a few years away. It is high time we addressed this environmental problem. Environmental protection policy does not consist solely of appropriations and budget lines. The work for a better environment also includes decisions that do not have immediate budgetary implications. One such measure is to strengthen the energy requirements of new houses in the building regulations. There are also other reforms and regulatory changes that can make environmental considerations easier to take into account in public and private planning. In the work on climate action plans, we will go through all important sectors with just that in mind: triggering climate action beyond what the broad, general instruments provide. This budget and climate action plans are important parts of the effort we need to create a climate-friendly society in line with the position of the Low Emissions Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28-2.ana.ud716e234	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28-2.ana.ud716e237	The government's bet to reduce the NOx and NOx fee, I ask you to come back to my post later this evening. I would like to remind the Council of State that the head, Stoltenberg, in his government statement, said that air pollution in the big cities must be reduced. The centre party Ola Borten Moe said on 14 February that the Norwegian car park is very environmentally hostile and dangerous to traffic, and that a good measure in this respect is to increase the wreckage to NOK 5000. Such a proposal has not been promoted in the Government’s budget — rather on the contrary. In a letter to the Energy and Environment Committee, the Ministry of the Environment states that such a measure is socially unprofitable and has little environmental impact. The question is: Is raising the wreckage considered a good environmental measure or not?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28-2.ana.ud716e250	It is well established that the wrecker has not given the results that we wanted in relation to local air pollution. What we know about local air pollution in the big cities is that it's mainly due to three things. One is dusty because of heavy-duty use. Therefore, many cities have taken responsibility and imposed restrictions or taxes on heavy tyres. The second is velocity. Speed is important for the amount of dust swirling up. The third is refuelling. These are the three most important areas of concern for local air pollution. Then, of course, it has to be seen in relation to the geographical location of the different cities, because these of course also have meaning.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28-2.ana.ud716e255	In opposition, SV went very high on the track, with promises especially in environmental policy. In their comments during the last full year of opposition, SV writes the following: ‘These members point out that the Ministry of the Environment’s budget has been substantially reduced in the last 10 years. This affects the quality of environmental protection work at national, sectoral and local level. This is a development that conflicts with the ambitions of the Sustainable Development Action Plan. The Socialist Left therefore increases the Ministry of the Environment’s budget by 20 per cent in line with the Government’s proposals.’ Now SV has become a government and has even received the Minister for the Environment. But what do you get now? Yes, there is an increase in the Ministry of the Environment's budget of about 1.5 p.m. in real growth. The budget is cut in important environmental areas, such as water treatment measures, land and sediment contaminated with dangerous pollutants, and stopped in the drive to control the salmon parasite gyrodactylus salaris. Does SV feel that with this budget they are fulfilling their promises and expectations in the field of the environment?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28-2.ana.ud716e265	I think I can confirm to the representative that over the last ten years in Norway there has been a rather severe reduction in environmental spending, so there is a lot to be repeated. At the same time, overall, there has never been as much effort on the environment as in this budget. The Swedish Government and the entire government have acknowledged that we are really going to have a big environmental commitment in Norway, we need to take it in many sectors at once. That is why we have invested so much in CO2 management. We have invested so much in renewable energy, on rail, etc., as I also mentioned in my main post. It is about taking environmental policy seriously. It is not reflected in the Ministry of the Environment's budget, but it is reflected in the entire environmental profile of the budget – and I believe it is a historic effort that we have now presented in the 2007 budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28-2.ana.ud716e275	The Minister for the Environment spent a lot of time in his speech on the climate challenges. We have also heard before that this Council of States is acting, unlike previous governments, which did not. My question is related to the CO2 management at Kårstø. Now the Council of State has just come home from Nairobi and in an exemplary, clear way has told us that we can't tolerate increased CO2 emissions. At home, the Ministry of Oil and Energy says that there is a great deal of uncertainty about the costs of the Kårstø project, which in turn creates uncertainty about the Government's Kårstø plan. So my question is as follows: can the Council confirm that CO2 management at Kårstø is important for achieving the objectives of Norwegian climate policy, and that the Kårstø project will therefore be completed in 2009?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28-2.ana.ud716e291	The climate problem is the world's most important and difficult environmental challenge. We have said that we are betting on CO2 management in a way that no government has ever done before. That's why we've spent a lot of money – between 700 and 800 million. kr – for CO2 handling. In addition, we have concluded the agreement with Statoil on Mongstad. With regard to the planning for Kårstø itself, Stortinget will receive all the information that Stortinget needs when the plans are more concrete than they do today. But the budget is quite clear: we have said that CO2 management is a field of concern for this government.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28-2.ana.ud716e307	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28-2.ana.ud716e310	What worries me and annoys me with the government's draft budget is that there is no serious concern about the alarming trend in the external trade leakage, which particularly affects the brewing industry in Norway. Figures from the Brewery Association show that border trade already amounts to DKK 9 billion a year, and most likely it will increase to DKK 10 billion next year, among others. due to exceptional illogical taxes on chocolate and sugar confectionery, increases in food tax, tobacco tax, packaging tax, snuff tax and alcohol taxes. During the last decades, we have witnessed the fact that several Norwegian breweries have had to be closed due to increased competition from foreign breweries and Norwegian charging policies. As a Drammenser, I am naturally concerned that Norway's oldest brewery, Aass Brewery, will not suffer the same fate. Now it turns out that the border trade and smuggling have reached a total of 40 million litres of beer per person. years — similar to the production of two Norwegian breweries such as Aass and Mack — it is time to respond. This is not only about Norwegian breweries, but also about other Norwegian industries losing to border trade. But this is also a very important principle for me: why do we have so high alcohol charges in Norway? Why is the government's policy so that only the rich can afford to take a glass of red wine every day, or enjoy a couple of darts when they have the light? Because there is no doubt that high alcohol charges are the most common, and not least the poorest, in the country. It is not rare for me to hear political opponents tell about all the bad things that can happen if you drink alcohol, but rarely does it clarify that it is about alcohol abuse — which is an important clarification. If you were to charge anything that could be misused, the list would have been very long. We can all agree that too much of the good can be too much of the good. Similarly, if you eat a lot of potato gold, it's not healthy, and it can have unfortunate consequences. If you eat hamburgers very often, it's not healthy, and it can have unfortunate consequences. Or, if you eat a lot of cakes and drink coffee with cream every day, it's not very healthy. So tell me – and now I hope I don't give the red-green some good ideas: why don't you have sky-high taxes on everything that's unhealthy here in Norway? Why don't you hear about snack abuse and snacks, about hamburger abuse and hamburger fees, or about the use of cookies and cake fees? For it can undoubtedly produce unfortunate socio-economic effects in terms of poor health, obesity, hospitalisation, etc. The same applies to alcohol abuse. But what about low or moderate alcohol use? In the last decade, hundreds of studies have been carried out indicating that moderate alcohol consumption can have a beneficial effect on body and health. Last year’s recommendations from the US health authorities quote from several studies showing that light or moderate alcohol consumption can be associated with a minor risk of cardiovascular disease. Red wine has long been claimed to help with Alzheimer's disease. Researchers have concluded that people who drink a few drinks a week are less likely to become overweight. Researchers have found that certain compositions in the red wine can prevent damage to the gums and stop bacteria in the mouth from spreading. Research has been published to show that those who drink from one glass of red wine and up to five bottles of wine per week have significantly more stringent thinking than total sleepers, as the advantage of alcohol is that it increases the blood flow to the brain. Researchers have found that people with moderate alcohol consumption are at lower risk of developing type 2 diabetes. These are just some of the concrete health consequences of moderate use that researchers have come up with. We must not forget the social gain. It cannot be numerically fixed or calculated socio-economicly. But, as Norwegian psychologists even say, enjoying a few glass of red wine or some pils can lead to making friends and increasing the ability to socialize. Alcohol increases well-being and is a ‘ice breaker’, especially here in Norway. Finally, I would like to make it clear that my point is not to praise the alcohol in the clouds. It can result in a lot of negative if it's abused. But I and my constituents would like the freedom to choose, without paying sky-high taxes to the state.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28-2.ana.ud716e348	The previous talk is about a risk sport. He mentions a number of areas that can, of course, be subject to charging, for very many reasons. This budget, like so many before, gives neither salvation nor eternal loss. It's'so there'. There are some points in themselves that are positive, and they have definitely been illuminated. The opposition may not have done so in the same way. But one thing that both position and opposition can agree on is that it means something who controls. We now see a change of course in Norwegian policy. In the election campaign, Stoltenberg and his government partners were particularly concerned about saying that the change in course will be largely by moving away from chaos and moving to a manageable majority government. But we have rarely seen such big management problems as in the first year of this government. When Hill-Marta Solberg says that this budgetary procedure has taken place within an orderly framework, one could mention Micaelsen's great saying: to be a spokesperson for a diesel fee on recreational boats that never happened, a NOX fee that would take the life of shrimp trawler operations along the entire coast, a freight service on a shoreline that would be significantly less profitable and that would get even more people to move goods on a car instead of on a boat, and a sick pay scheme that was taken out of the budget process – unique in Norwegian history. Where the former government spent five days negotiating the budget with the respective Progress Party and the Workers' Party in the last two years, this government spent six weeks negotiating with the social partners. It's become chaos, and it was much less earlier. Let me then get into the car charges, which unfortunately there has been a disagreement about the interior of the government parties. On the right, we agree that we need to get a more environmentally friendly and safe car park. We want a charging system that actually rewards an environmentally friendly and safe car park. Then it is not only useful to have a CO2 component in the charging system, because in such a component – as we see it now – the most environmentally friendly cars, such as biofuels cars, will unfortunately come out very poorly. It must be a paradox for government parties that the most environmentally friendly biofuels cars are just going to cost NOK 20 000 to NOK 50 000. But then, of course, the government promises that it will come back to finding a solution, but it does not build up the chaos and the governance problems that the government has had. If you take a car from the period 1980–1984 versus a car from the period 2000–04, you have 90 pst in the older car. higher risk of death in meeting accidents. It will never be possible to do anything about it if you do not reduce the level of fees. Without a strong reduction in the level of charges, only a moderate replacement of the car fleet will take place. We know today that the car scrapage age in Norway on average is 19 years, which is one of the highest we find in the world, unfortunately. When the Government simultaneously collects annual taxes on diesel cars and a possible increase in the future, precisely because diesel pollutes more on particulate matter and on NOX, it is a paradox that the winners of the charging system are precisely diesel cars. When it is also known that the government parties write into their budget papers that there is no reason that there should be a difference in the diesel and petrol charges, on fuel, just for the same reason, there has to be another paradox for the charging system in total that there are diesel cars that are the big winner. Finally, let me address perhaps one of the most important issues in the budget, namely international solidarity and looking beyond the borders of Norway. There's something we in this room do too little. When you talk about three things in the developing world, the government unfortunately mentions only two of them. The government must be commended for indebtedness. That's an important part. It must be commended for its assistance. But where you're totally failing, it's at the most important point, in terms of trade.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28-2.ana.ud716e375	We are not alarmed by the policies of the Progress Party, as Mr Tybring-Gjede said earlier today. We explain reality. If that's how the Progress Party gets scared by it, maybe they should turn around, as they have politically turned up over all years. However, I would like to start my article by talking about a disease group called diabetics. Diabetes is a disease that can be hereditary, but which can also be a lifestyle disease. What's true, anyway, is that it lasts for life. When the Bondevik government removed the diabetic stencil deduction, the reason was that this group was the only one that failed to document large disease costs. In other words, non-discrimination was the principle, and of course we supported it for 2005 and beyond. Now, however, we see that the diabetes group is treated particularly strictly by the Tax Directorate and some Equations Offices. Some are refused, others are given the deduction under doubt, and others are given the deduction on the same grounds. Yes, it appears that the mother is being deducted, while the daughter is being rejected, or vice versa. The Oslo Equation Office is perhaps the worst example, which first accepted all the deductions for then, after almost half a year, to demand documentation. If you couldn't prove the cost, the deduction would be subtracted again. That's not how we can treat chronically ill people in Prosperity Norway. The majority of the committee has therefore demonstrated in the vote that the Government must follow this up, so that we are given equal treatment. And the finance minister has happily said that she will. Politicians and public servants are set to serve the people. When governments say something and decide, we expect it to be followed up by bureaucracy – of course – because in a democracy, the majority decide. That's why we now see that The unemployment rate declines when we have a high level of economic activity municipalities equip up schoolbuilding and the maintenance toolbox fills the energy situation with resources, not just words – we are dealing with CO2 emissions privatization has taken care of the rights of the stop workers and securitysocial dumping is to be taken seriously and the end-of-life ratios are to be reduced, and several peculiarities are to be removed again increased by up to NOK 20 000 because the unemployment obligation under permits is reduced funds for adult training are increased – over two years more to the minimum pension fund we finally get full child care coverage in Norway, one of the world's richest countries, increasing the level of anti-discrimination proposed by the previous government in the entire pension reform that comes, will mean more to those who have paid for pensions, more to the minimum pension fund e.g. Hallelujah! Yeah, I'm proud. [[Laughter]] I'm proud of the society my predecessors have created. And I'm proud of the society we're now building. It is a pity that the Progress Party has never contributed to it, but has been a strong opponent.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28-2.ana.ud716e463	After hearing the end of the speech by the representative of Klungland, I had to look around to see if I was in the right room. You could get the impression that you were a completely different place from the Stortinget when you heard this sermon from Klungland. I'm going to do something that seems like several of the representatives of the government parties have forgotten to read from the Soria Moria statement. After listening to the debate today, it seems that the representatives of the government parties have been more concerned about the budget of the Progress Party than what has actually been done. I therefore find reason to use this pulpit to just quote from the Soria Moria statement, and then I'll comment on it a little bit later. The following are to be read: ‘In the event of a disease, people shall experience that they are offered treatment and care with a short waiting period and with the greatest possible proximity to the user. Our healthcare services shall have sufficient resources and competence to provide services based on modern, professionally updated methods and technologies. Patients’ ability to choose hospitals and permanent staff shall be supported by good information on rights and offers. Healthcare users shall experience the design of the offer in a manner that is tailored to the individual needs of the individual.’;» Then come some indents, and I will draw particular attention to the first and last indent of the Soria Moria Declaration under this theme, namely that the Government will: ‘– strengthening the economy of hospitals so that several patients are treated and waiting times are kept low [[...]] I would like to be allowed to take Stortinget on a little round trip to see how the reporting from the various health companies is now. I will begin in Health North-Tronde Team: ‘Sustained and fewer doctorsHealth Nord-Trøndelag must save $80 million in the 2007 budget.’ Then we go a little further south, to the St. Olav's Hospital: «Removes 300 annual worksSt. Olav's Hospital has to save $300 million in 2007. Actually, the savings requirement was SEK 450 million, but the HF has been postponed for the last 150 million.” Then we go to the Rikshospitalet-Radium Hospital HF: "We are preparing to get to zero in 2007, says CEO Åge Danielsen." Further to the Hospital Buskerud HF: ‘To achieve balance next year, the Hospital Buskerud HF has to save approximately DKK 105 million.’ And to health in the middle of Norway, ‘449 million. i minus.» These aren't numbers that I'm trying to figure out, these are numbers that it says to read on November 9, 2006 in the Medisin of the Day. Furthermore, there has just been a demonstration in front of the Storting, which also shows a little bit that there's a pretty big gap between what you're trying to make out of the outside and what's the actual reality. We refer to the People's Movement for the Local Hospitals and various patient organisations, trade unions etc. fl., which writes the following in connection with a press release: ‘The proposal for the 2007 State Budget is very dramatic for our hospitals. It is very far from the promises of the Soria Moria Declaration to the reality that the people are now experiencing.» Furthermore, there is reason to refer also from the letter to the North Region Committee of the Medical Association, which points out the following: ‘If the framework is not strengthened, the service provision will have to be reduced. The result will be: longer waiting time for patientsincreased and cost-driven leakage of patients out of the rural district marked lower educational provision for students lower work environment for employees.’ When we go through what's referred to from the Soria Moria statement, everything I've brought up here shows that it's far from the adventure world you've been up on Soria Moria, to what's now been the result after a year with a red-green government. And in the case of excesses, you went very high with it. But what has happened? Soon all the excesses in the health care system have increased. Yes, even partial 1 has increased. But what about those grants and transfers to families with children, for example: in the case of child welfare, in the case of child allowances — yes, where the increase has not occurred. In fact, you cannot claim that you have only made a price adjustment. Then you have to do it at both ends, but you have chosen not to do it. We see that the waiting times and waiting lists are increasing. We also see that, after the dictates of the Minister of Health, fewer agreements are now concluded with the private actors. We are losing the correction to the public health system. In fact, on the health side, the government does not deliver: hospital cows are increasing, waiting times are increasing, and excesses are increasing. Health care businesses need fresh resources in addition to what the Government itself has proposed. There is a need, inter alia, for: to go into and look at the indebtedness of enterprises and cancel some of the debt. The debt to health businesses has now grown to such an extent that it is a burden on the budget of individual health businesses. Liquidity is so poor now in some health enterprises that it is necessary to raise overdraft loans in order to pay the wage costs. We clearly see — and there are daily reports — the wide differences, including between health businesses. Now it's time to consider bringing Health-Norway into one kingdom. We've got a situation where it's actually now your residence address that determines what kind of offer you get. We cannot do that when we say at the same time that no matter where you live in this country, you should have the same opportunities for treatment and competence – including for those in the district. Furthermore, some of the most effective parts of the health system are also being created, i.e. the contract specialists. An uncertainty has been created, because it is one of the things that are almost omitted in connection with, among other things. with the national health plan. I hope, at least, that, in line with what the Council of State has said earlier, you will grasp it. I hope that happens. The proportion of the health care sector alone has now increased by 160 million. kr. It is the same government that in its statement says that you should lower the excess and keep them low. The proportions of the health care system have now become so high that this additional tax on disease is in the process of making many patients who have poor advice actually have to choose whether to eat a hot meal or pick up their medicine. This is a serious situation, and we have to look at it. To be honest, I thought that when you told the whole campaign that the realities were going down, when you made a government statement and told me how important it was to bring down the props and keep them low, you would at least have been honest in this area and done something about it. But you actually haven't chosen to be. The representative of Klungland was also concerned with diabetes. Then it's strange that when we got a diabetes plan as late as July 1st this year – July 1st was the plan – the only thing you've contributed in this respect from the Government's side, a position as coordinator, is a 50 pst. position. You have not followed up the content of the plan. The plan is actually very good. The plan was an initiative taken by the Progress Party in negotiations with the Bondevik II Government. So that's what makes that plan exist now. That's where it got on the track, but it's not followed up with money. If you are to have credibility in making a plan, you must also take action, and action must be followed up with money, if not just a lot of words on a paper, and it does not create credibility for us politicians.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28-2.ana.ud716e550	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28-2.ana.ud716e553	The Progress Party's alternative budget in the field of health includes – not unexpectedly – input-driven funding, ISF: ‘The party wishing to increase the ISF share to a minimum of 60 %.’ How high do you really want to go? It may be effective for hospitals with a large patient base, but what about the small hospitals in Finnmark, the hospital in Kristiansund, Rjukan, Lärdal, etc.? The representative of Nesvik believes that small hospitals with low patient base are able to adapt to the market by 1 pst. in the case of ISF of more than 60 p.m., or does the Progress Party have other solutions for the economy of small hospitals – about the representative’s concern for increased cows and closeness to hospitals?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28-2.ana.ud716e563	I actually believe that the local hospitals and the smaller hospitals can do just that. If there are some organisations that are actually able to turn around, change and look at effective ways to operate, it's actually the smaller hospitals. For example, I can use Røro's hospital, which is just a small hospital that has really become effective in its areas. This may be among the country's foremost concerns, among other things. orthopaedic orthopaedic orthopaedic orthopaedic orthopaedic orthopaedic orthopaedic orthopaedic orthopaedic orthopaedic This means that the hospital's income would have come, you would have had stable employment, and you would have actually been able to develop the offer further. What happens in the case of 40 pst. input-driven funding today is that the cost of each treatment is higher than the income associated with the treatment, i.e. that you must eat from the basic allocation each time. This means that the patient is seen as a cost item and not as a source of hospital income. That's why it's important to get this in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28-2.ana.ud716e572	There was no heaven in the hospital sector either, as the Progress Party had the opportunity to influence the economy. I just remember that it was constantly talking about cuts, closures and what was worse. In West Agder, two local hospitals were laid down when the Progress Party was a supporting party for the budget of the previous government. The entry for the representative is well-known progress party rhetoric, on the same line as Tybring-Gjeddes earlier today. The Progress Party does not support the welfare society. They want a different society, a society where someone with their grandmother in a wheelchair, grandmother on a scooter and kids on their backs are going to run around shopping for welfare. Can the representative point out what makes the society of the Progress Party, other than what the UN thinks is the best in the world, the right thing for the Norwegian people?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28-2.ana.ud716e584	Then we first have to look at what is the basic material for Norway to be the best society. Among other things, value creation is per person. builds up on the basis of national product also there. This makes us, as an oil nation and based on the business we have, automatically come up high. So it's not very wonderful. It is obvious that the representative of Klungland reads the programme of the Progress Party as badly as he reads the Soria Moria statement. Therefore I find reason to say that the money will not be transferred to the individual as an open check. They will go to the service provider, while the individual himself, among other things, will go to the service provider. shall choose who he or she enters his or her own home. As late as today, there was a look-up in the Evening Post there, among other things. refers to the fact that we have a system that means that if you receive services at home, you cannot even demand proof of good conduct from the person you enter into your own home. The party of progress will give power back to the user of the services, not to the government offices. It is the user who should have power, and it is the freedom of choice of the user to be placed in the high seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28-2.ana.ud716e593	I sat in the office and listened to Nesvik's articles. Rarely have I heard such a black paint of the Norwegian health service as what he was able to draw. I think it's quite incredible to hear such a description of a health care service that is internationally actually considered to be one of the best in the world. I wonder if the representative, Nesvik, has passed the point that there has never been any further investment in the Norwegian health care system. In 2006, much more patients were treated than in 2005, and the Government proposes that in 2007 one should be able to continue the growth that has occurred in 2006. My question is: does the representative Nesvik not at all see that the government is betting on the health care system and that the hospital economy is strengthened?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28-2.ana.ud716e600	First of all, I just have to replicate to the replicator that I read from an article in Dagens Medisin, a professional journal. I have not gone in and invited either the hospitals, the health companies or others to bring something in writing. I read from an article, just so it's clear. What the representative here says about bringing growth in 2006 into 2007, is not right. The government’s government budget says this: it is the growth achieved by the first tertiary in 2006, which will be included in the 2007 government budget. I think you should take it with you. The problem concerns what the representative himself heard when we were visiting Health West. They said that we have to reduce the activity because we can't afford to meet the growth. Health Nord has reported the same thing. More and more reports that they need to reduce their activity because they cannot afford to maintain the current treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28-2.ana.ud716e609	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28-2.ana.ud716e613	The survey in the summer where Jens Grögaard at Ullevål Hospital said to the NRK that only one-tenth of the children who are being severely abused in the family are being discovered and get help, has caused many to ask themselves why. I believe that some reason is that family protection is often stronger than child protection. The privacy is screened – at good and bad. Today, there is a great deal of tension between how it should be, and how it is, too many children in the family, and power in close relationships is very visible on the political agenda. We are painfully aware that children are being harmed for life because we did not reach them behind the four of the world and in some cases too thin walls. But is it still such that the poorest children become the hardest? Very much of the research suggests it. Even if we don't have numbers from our own country, we have to stick to, among other things. British reports that 16 times the number of children at the bottom of the ladder compared to those that are some higher up lives with the chosen family. We know that we can improve the protection of children in power by improving the situation of the most vulnerable families. Therefore, the Christian People's Party will take new steps in the fight against poverty in order to improve the situation of children who live with family power, whether they are directly affected or they are framed by seeing and listening to violence against others in the family, usually against mothers or siblings. These are vulnerable and sometimes ‘invisible’ children and young people who need protection, help and follow-up in a day-to-day environment of anxiety and insecurity. More than 39 000 children and young people received child protection measures in 2005, representing an increase of about 4.2 pst. compared to the previous year. Nevertheless, government child and family protection is halted in new additions, and the government does not take a position as to whether this should apply for the next year. In the alternative state budget of the Christian People's Party, state child protection has been strengthened by 50 million. kr to avoid addition stops in Bufetat in 2007. In addition, Christian People's Party proposes 10 million. kr for child-restraint protection. We will also ask the Government to assess the statutory right to follow-up protection for children up to the age of 23. The support scheme ‘Children and youth action in larger urban communities’ has been proposed with 3 million. kr in the alternative state budget of the Christian People's Party. This is a targeted tool to improve the reproductive and living conditions of children and young people with special needs. That's the same thing as 10 million. kr The Christian People's Party proposes to make an eartag for child-restraint protection. Norsk Fosterheimsforening is one of those who have pointed out that enforcement practices are too bad in many municipalities. Many of the foster children are not allowed to succeed, even if they want to, and foster parents are not given sufficient follow-up. Lack of follow-up protection may lead to the child’s work until it reaches the age of 18 years, and many foster parents feel a despair and a reluctance in relation to the care and work they have done. If we are to trap the weakest children, we must use all the tools. The nursery is in some cases the only safe place for children to stay. If children of drug users, mentally ill or disadvantaged families do not go to kindergarten because of poor finances, it is much worse than if all other families pay a few hundred more bills a month. The SSB, TNS Gallup and ECON Analysis have conducted a survey on parental income graded payments in kindergartens. The survey shows that in one year, a quarter of the municipalities with income graded parental payments have increased the price of the low-income family of children. The Christian People's Party believes this is an unfortunate consequence of the maximum price. We want to counteract this development and refer to the alternative budget of the Christian People's Party, where 25 million. kr is ear-marked income-graded parental payment. Despite the fact that the world is a terrorist zone for some children, the world is fortunately a safe adult for all, most of them. And for this great plurality, the family is the most important community and the safe anchorage in a demanding everyday life. The Christian People's Party is pleased that the Government is rectifying it in a life course that was first proposed. It was a pleasure that one of them got it back in place again as a good prevention measure against the crime of a life. The Christian People's Party will strengthen the family as its most important community and anchor. At the same time, society must take care of all the children who do not experience the family as a safe framework. The goal is a safe growth – for everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28-2.ana.ud716e639	In all western countries, most parties place themselves on a right-left axis. In general, the right side will have lower taxes and a more limited country, while the left side will make more active use of public instruments and the public sector, in particular with a focus on public welfare. This is the big dividing line of all batch systems that grew in the last century. In Norway, as probably the only country in the world, this dividing line is crossed by one party, for the simple reason that we have a couple of commodities that make us incredibly rich. We have access to large amounts of capital from oil and gas production. Because of oil wealth, we see that the Progress Party dares to rise above this right-left axis by wanting lower taxes, while at the same time having large public budgets, with the aim of resolving most of the tasks at the same time. The progress party leaves behind doing what we're doing, that's to give priority. This has been made clear in today's debate. In a mixture of things that seem irritating and flattering, the Progress Party has defended its great use of money and did not want to understand that the rift we see on the bourgeois side of economic policy can also have a meaning for further civil cooperation. We're told that it doesn't matter, since the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre are cooperating, despite their different financial positions in the last period, that is, before we formed a government. The comparison doesn't stand. It is true that at the time we had different priorities, proposals and discovery proposals, but we agreed on the rule of action, and we agreed to follow the oil money usage of the previous government. In contrast, the civil side is fragmented in economic policy, and economic policy is now once the cornerstone of much of the policy as a whole. So what we're asking is what kind of economic policy is the citizen? What can we expect with a possible civil majority? If we listen to the Right, we get a tight fiscal policy with low public consumption and increased tax relief. Then the many taboos of the Advance Party disappear, because that is not possible. If we listen to the Progress Party, we get a loose fiscal policy, with high public consumption and increased tax relief, and with a significantly higher interest rate and crown price on the purchase. And then the responsible economic policy that has always characterized Right disappears. The size of these two parties in the polls suggests that these are relevant questions to ask in a financial debate, no matter what they may think of it. We are still working for a red-green majority in 2009, not least because of the uncertainty surrounding the economic policy of the opposition. The most important thing for us as government parties must therefore continue to deliver as good a budget as what we are going to vote on today. Now it's easy to admit that I'm not the first one from the red-greens to boast of their own budget. It's an honest thing to admit that things can get better. We all want more for psychiatry, for more student homes, for universities and for research. It would also have been good to bring more to the hospitals and to the addicts or for other good purposes, as many have called for in today's debate. But now we've done the job of having government power and being politicians of reality – we've made priorities: we're putting together tax relief and good community economy ahead of private wealth, and we're betting on combating poverty both here in Norway and out in the world, and we're continuing to push for the promises of Soria Moria.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28-2.ana.ud716e658	It takes a long time to get to the pulpit. It also reflects the Norwegian society – most of it takes a long time because it is mostly a queue. That's what I'm going to try to get into my post. I record that the two words that have been used most in the debate up until now are «historical» – I don't know how many dozens of times that word has been used from the red-green parties – and then it is «the party of the people of the world», and at least there I have lost the count. I think if we add up, this debate will split into 80 pst. on the ‘Fremskrittsparte’ and 20 pst. in ‘historic’ pictures of the 2007 budget from the red-green ones. It turns out that the only historical thing in the 2007 budget is that one continues to keep people in line. It is a fact that when one moves on the left side of Norwegian policy and the left side in general in politics, people are expected to stand in line. It costs money. That's why I think it's interesting that many of the red-green parties have been involved in the money usage of the Progress Party. The figures have ranged from SEK 15.7 billion up to 37 billion. For me, it's actually not that important. One might like to take the debate on whether there is a cost pressure in the budget of the Progress Party and whether it provides for an increase in interest rates and an increase in the price of crowns. But what the debate really should have been about, and which it is totally absent from – and I understand that the red-greens do not want to discuss it – is what it costs to be exempted, that is, what it costs not to take the steps taken by the Progress Party. It is also claimed in a letter from the Ministry of Finance that the budget of the Progress Party is charged only for permanent expenditure. My claim is that the Ministry of Finance acts as amateurs in the answer to the Committee on Finance, because they say nothing about the efficiency, rationalisation and reduction in the cost of health pay compared to when people are in line, not getting into work, they say nothing about reducing the cost of getting fewer people out of work because there are fewer accidents on the roads, reducing transport costs for the public and private sectors. The Ministry of Finance does not say anything about that. But to take an example, the pedigree investigation does so in terms of road and infrastructure. The pedigree investigation says that if you invest SEK 230 billion on the way, society will probably get 90 billion savings a year in savings costs! By eliminating road accidents and fatal accidents, which are estimated to cost nearly 30 billion per year. year, and by reducing transport costs both for private businesses and for the public sector, a few savings of DKK 60 billion per year will be made. years. That should have been the subject of the debate. But I understand that there is no one who places emphasis on it. Therefore, it is very interesting to note that all parties in the government constellation are historically very satisfied with the budget on the road in 2007. They are so pleased that they are almost taking the wave, even the Senterpartiet and the representative Lundteigen are taking the wave of the budget on their way for 2007. So what's going on for 2007? There will be 500 million on road maintenance. What the government does in 2007 is to maintain the standard on our roads. So what's the standard? Yes, only 5 pst. of our tribal pathways have good enough standard. The historic road promise in 2007 means that this Government maintains that the standard shall be acceptable only at 5 pst. of our tribal pathways. It's the historical and nothing else. I understand that there are none of the red-greens that are interested in seeing that the budget of the Progress Party is divided into different areas. For the red-green government, it doesn't matter if I travel to Africa and buy a coconut. It has the same effect on the Norwegian economy as if I had bought coconuts on Rimi. If I leave for two months in Thailand, it has exactly the same effect on the Norwegian economy as if I were on vacation for two months in Geilo. That's one of the points of the Progress Party. We know it takes time to convert some economists. But we're stuck in a belief that no matter how we use our heads, the same effect on the Norwegian economy. I say this, and this is what I'm emphasising, because I know that within the ranks of the Central Party, they are in complete agreement with the Advance Party, and within the ranks of the Labour Party, they are in complete agreement with the Progress Party. And fortunately, more and more economists are assessing it exactly the same way as the Progress Party. That is what this debate should have been about. What happens to the budget of the red-green government is that they carry on the expenditure. They don't just carry on spending, they carry on increasing expenditure, but then they call it well-being, because the red-green government has no savings anywhere. They're just wasting money in public. Let's take what was said earlier today: The County Council of Giske was in the pulpit and boasted that the municipal sector has now suddenly received 11.5 billion kroner in 2006. This, of course, has no effect on the Norwegian economy. But there are 11.5 billion new into the Norwegian economy, and more than half of these billions were new funds that nobody had budgeted for – but it has no impact on the Norwegian economy, of course. But when the Progress Party proposed an extra 5 billion kroner for the road sector in 2006, it was a disaster. Then it was a disaster, we've heard here today. And someone's talking about the Advance Party blackpainting! Yes, it will be interesting to read the minutes of this debate on the policy and budget of the Progress Party, on the machinations of the red-green parties in the formulation of the Progress Party, I have not heard at least. And then I would say, two people in a hospital queue are two black spots for me. That's why I don't see that I have to go in the trap to the red-green ones and say that everything is pink. But I'm claiming the right to point out that we still haven't solved the societal problems we're facing. But I'm recording, and we're happy to do that in the Progress Party, that we're in focus. We're very focused. And the fact that all the parties are concerned with our solutions actually gives us faith that we'll get a pass at some point, otherwise we wouldn't have been on and worked as hard as we've done. We had also not been able to get 30 pst. opening up the polls if people didn't think our solutions were the right ones. I record that with our arrangement we will even rage on the airport network. That's what the Council of State says today. We want to destroy the airport network. Yeah, how do we do that? – At least not by granting less money. We want to give more money, and we want to create predictability in the financing of our airports, as opposed to the current government that wants to base it on the profits of four airports. But we want to rage because we want a different system. I also record that we want to destroy the railway – very interesting, because the fact is that our proposal for the railway in 2007 is as big as the government's 2006 proposal. So it's one kilometer of railway tracks in difference, so this year's budget on rail is very good. But when we copy the government's budget on rail in 2006 in this year's budget, it is a disaster. One kilometer of railway tracks is a wreckage of the railway! And of course, we're raging the municipal sector. Yes, it goes with thunders and broke right west! The point is that the Progress Party has exactly the same appropriations for the municipal sector, perhaps larger than the government has, just that we have other structures. That is what this type of debate should have been based on, that we in Norway might have to stick our finger in the ground and see the possibility that we can change the structure – the administrative structure, the departmental structure, the economic structure – to see if we can possibly get back something more for the money we are already delivering, both to the public sector and the private sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28-2.ana.ud716e692	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28-2.ana.ud716e695	I record that the representative Sandberg is either annoyed or a little resentful that the search light, the spotlights, has been put directly on the economic policy of the Progress Party. He obviously needs to dig up some backyard economists, as we call them in the Workers' Party, who are to be truthful witnesses to the fact that the economic policy of the Progress Party is fully feasible. But I think the representative Sandberg agrees with us in the Workers' Party that there is some limit out there to how much oil money you can spend. For what is – if not – the reason why the Document No. The eight proposals, such as: in the field of Sandberg’s representative, the variable petrol price to follow the oil price, toll cancellation of DKK 13 billion, rural road package, perhaps estimated at DKK 10 billion, followed by SEK 200 million. kr, is not mentioned in the budget at all? It must ensure that there is some boundary out there, also for backyard economists in the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28-2.ana.ud716e700	I don't know what the representative puts in the expression backyard economists, but at least they go far beyond the economists who work in the Ministry of Finance, when it comes to thinking new. I can only reassure the representative that I am in a very good mood. I think I also expressed that view, because I think it is very good that it is focused on the policy of the Progress Party, because then we get it visible. But every time our policy comes into focus, we are also very satisfied in retrospect, because it turns out that people are very sensible in this country. Then they see that the solutions of the Progress Party are actually right. But when the representative challenges me on all these Document Nos. The eight proposals, I don't think he's going to sit down, because we're still not done with the year. We're also going into 2007, and it'll eventually show what the Progress Party will challenge this house, both in terms of tolls, county roads, etc. We're not done with the year yet.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28-2.ana.ud716e709	In the draft budget of the Progress Party, there is not much left of the agreement in the NTP, where the Progress Party belonged to the majority who would spend NOK 11 billion more on the railways. The other conciliators, made up of today's government parties, are hanging out with 1 billion dollars, and the Progress Party is further increasing this delay by 1.9 billion dollars in just one year. This raises many issues: lack of transport capacity, subsequent chaos on the roads and more expensive public transport. I'll leave that in this round. The Progress Party and Sandberg have also stated that they are for modern high-speed solutions, but only if they can be financed privately, both in terms of infrastructure and operation. On the road side, on the other hand, the Progress Party has almost unlimited means and takes the opposite position. They are against all private co-financing. It might therefore be interesting to get an answer to this seemingly logical flaw in terms of principle approach.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28-2.ana.ud716e716	First National Transport Plan: I think it is interesting that there is a representative from the Right who challenges the Progress Party at national transport level, when the Right was not involved in the agreement. I can reassure the representative that at least we are still above what the Right had in its proposal for a national transport plan. So the right should be satisfied. This applies to the railway and to a substantial extent to the road. We follow up the national transport plan to the point and dot in terms of the appropriations for road, and then we say in the 2007 setting that we want to give priority to road ahead of rail. We have made a whole series of proposals in Stortinget as the Right, among others. have voted against, but as the Right has now purchased in principle, as the Right proposes a road fund of NOK 20 billion. We proposed a fund of NOK 300 billion, which was then earmarked for the construction of railways, roads and public transport. Unfortunately, we did not get a majority for that, but we hope that the Right and also the rest of the Storting will join it in a later round. Then we can take the challenges that lie on the existing rail system in 2008.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28-2.ana.ud716e723	I understand why the Advance Party needs to wrap its policy into a lot of wool. When I read the setting regarding what the Progress Party is going to take all the money from which they are going to spend, it is quite difficult to get any concrete answers to that. I read from the setting where you mean ‘that if unprofitable aerodromes are to be maintained, this must be done by means of State budget appropriations and not by means of a system in which other air passengers have to pay an additional aerodrome charge as it has been until today’. Then I ask the very simple question, because I can't see that there is a lot of money in there to buy airport offers: Which airports will the Progress Party drop? And similarly in the case of rail: There the members of the Progress Party say that this is so little effective that they will cut out all the money we spend for the purchase of rail services, as well as stop any forced expansion that we put up in the Oslo area and in other parts of the country where we need to get more goods over on the railway. Then my question is: which parts of the rail transport will the Progress Party put down? Is it so that the Progress Party will cut out support for the purchase of services around Oslo? That's when people have to stand in line.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28-2.ana.ud716e735	I will first be allowed to say that the representative Holmås exaggerates a bit, then, but he will be allowed to do so, by removing all the purchases of services, but it will only be for Holmås’ account. When we've clarified that we want another financing of our airports, it's because we fear that there will be increased competition in the future. Substantial new expenditure is being incurred at our existing airports, including: from the current government, which will reduce the profits and results of the existing major aerodromes, which are to be paid for the small aerodromes. That's why we believe it's safer and predictable that the state takes direct financing of the small airports, so that we can also defend and build up our large airports on the basis of the new regulations on safety. That's what we've been saying. As far as the railway is concerned, there's nothing about us wanting to cut in central lines. But I recommend that the representative Holmås – when we get there – read the trade position from the Transport and Communications Committee when it is delivered on 5 December.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28-2.ana.ud716e744	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28-2.ana.ud716e748	First, I just have to comment that when the representative Sandberg is challenged for a lack of coverage on a whole series of urgent document No. Eight proposals in the course of the year, he says there's a lot left of the year, and it's still possible to come back to things. It reminds me of the expression: the party is not over – it's cake again! It's not that you can make proposals over and over again, and when you get to the party day – that's when there's a party on the house here, that's when we're going to adopt the budget – it's not a penny for many of these measures. Then there is reason to ask the question: if what you say in debates, what they say in the so-called private document number. The eight proposals that apply? Or is it the budget that is now going to apply, what will be the reality of people? I'm going to interpret it for the last time. That's what determines what reality is for you and me and for most people in this country, not that you're big in the talking clothes when you're on TV or on the pulpit in connection with private document no. Eight proposals. But enough about it. Today's attitude is marked by – at least I think, it's a little self-confidence, and you should listen to that – that we red-green are well on the way to implementing or getting the measures we went to elections. The rapporteur for the budget setting has explained many of these things, but they cannot be repeated enough. Historical is a word used. Well, I think there's still a historical stake in the communal arena, in free schoolbooks for high school children, in domestic and foreign poverty initiatives, on the railways and on the road. We can mention a lot of things. But then it is right, as many have pointed out – and I believe that in the government parties we have something to learn, including from the Progress Party, whether it is self-critical, socially critical, system-critical – that even if we adopt the budget here today, not all problems will be solved tomorrow. There will continue to be too many young people, including young people. in my home country, Buskerud, who is in line for treatment for mental illness. There won't be enough money, even though we are now giving billions of dollars in the budget to the Council of State Åslaug Haga, to solve all the tasks in the municipalities tomorrow. We're going to keep doing this, but there's something about the direction that's a completely different one from what it was before. But then I also believe that there is a reason that we get to this. There are two reasons why we can do what we do in this setting we present today. One is the value creation in general in Norway. It is that eleven of the twelve dollars we spend over the budget are Norwegian value creation – that we are on, that we are working, and that the companies are doing well. And then there's one of twelve dollars that's oil money. During this debate, we have clearly seen that the greatest distinction – at least in economic policy – does not go between giving more money to that or that. What this is about is how to learn about the use of oil money in Norway. There, on the one hand, we have those of us who believe in these economists -- that's the great, overwhelming majority -- who think they're okay with this, who say what they're doing. And then we have those that I'm talking about as backyard economists, which are the ones that you can smell up to and get out of the light to get some evidence that what you're doing, the experiment you're trying to get out of life after 2009, can actually be successful, even if you don't operate within the limits that most of us think the economy is up to. Luckily, however, it is also the case that during the debate we have been given the impression that there is a large majority – in addition to the governmental parties – who have the same view as we do in economic policy. The right has confirmed that. Jan Tore Sanner earlier today went a long way in saying that it was almost an ultimate requirement that the rule of action and an economically sound arrangement should form the basis of any alternative government in the future. Left's leader, Lars Sponheim, said the same thing, on a general basis, he could say that it was in no way relevant to pursue an economic policy that did not have the mark of soberness, I think was the word he used. With all due respect, subsidiarity may not be the word used on the budget of the Progress Party in this Chamber today. But it also testifies to what Marianne Aasen Agdestein, who used to speak, was in fact, that it is quite timely to question a forward-looking bourgeois opposition that to those degrees cracks in economic policy. What will be the result of the day the worst should happen, that the bourgeois win the election at the next crossroads, in 2009? Where, then, will the intersection of economic policy be? I am very afraid that with a very strong Progress Party it will be completely different results from what we see today. In summary, I believe that it is possible to say that we can present a budget we are proud of, and that is within an economy in which we do not construct our own realities about how this actually works, but participate in the change of words with economists, professionals and healthy everyday people who experience that they do not get access to craftsmen – it takes half a year just to exchange a pipe a day. In the drama, we're going to have a bridge that cost $30 million three years ago. Now it's $70 million. kr with the same tenderers. It says something about us being awfully close to exploiting the capacity of the economy. We have to take that into account, even though it might not always be as popular.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28-2.ana.ud716e761	It is in good economic times that we must and can invest for the future. Norway now has extremely good times and, at the same time, fantastic opportunities to look for more than one year to come. That is why we are putting a great and very offensive focus on research and knowledge in the Right's alternative budget. We are strengthening this area by NOK 1.1 billion in relation to the government's budget proposal. Augusto Lopez-Claros, vice president of the World Economic Forum, recently said: ‘Our indicators point to the increasing importance of higher education and training as sources of productivity growth. Countries investing heavily in education also receive increasing levels of income, poverty reduction and increased international competitiveness.’ The right-hand proposals are wide and varied. We propose to correct the big government cut of 275 million. in the basic appropriations for universities and higher education. It's a little straight cut, because the government sail doesn't want to take the burden of telling the institutions which part of the activities it's going to go down. So the message to the institutions is really: we expect the same activity, but for 275 million. kr less. The reality is, of course, that there is going to be less research activity, less study and teaching provision, and a huge loss of motivation for a sector that has undergone a major transformation process in the context of the quality reform. Quality reform has so far been fully financed, now it is no longer. The right-hander proposes to give money to 350 new scholarship holders, in line with the escalation plan in the research report. 250 of these will go to universities and colleges, 100 for free projects under the auspices of the Research Council. The government writes in its budget proposal that there is a great need to train new researchers in Norway. But then they draw the very perceptive conclusion that it is best to stop the escalation, break the plan and not add money to a single new scholarship position in 2007. It's unwise, it's a little forward-looking, and it's not smart politics. In order for Norway to achieve the objective of 3 pst. to go to research efforts by 2010, action must follow words. And for 1 pst. of the 3 pst. must come from public sources, it must be clear that it is useless to use higher education and research as a balancing item year after year. It is very little credible by the Council of State Djupedal to complain that the business community is researching too little, while at the same time he is without warning and without any investigation kittens 150 million. kr of the SkattenFUNN scheme, which is actually the scheme that makes business research. In the Right's Alternative Budget, we're adding an extra DKK 25 billion to the Research Fund. It ensures SEK 1.1 billion in increased research returns in 2008, and there is money earmarked for research. That means that the fund capital with the Right proposal will be NOK 85 billion next year. It is very important to ensure a high level of access to fund capital, because it ensures predictability and long-termity, on which research depends. Research will prepare us to tackle new challenges, and these are challenges we do not know today. The right-hand side also suggests giving 180 million. kr to scientific equipment. For the Right, it is important to see the coherence of the education system. What we do for the smallest children is important for the drop-out in high school, and it's important for what kind of researchers we get. Therefore, the right priority is to strengthen basic education. We're adding an extra hour to the math at the pediatrics. We are going to implement the promise of knowledge, which is the great reform of the previous government for more and better learning, and it must be done with full force. We're spending money on homework, money on better counselling and money on summer school trials, on a model of a successful experiment in Oslo this summer. In order to improve access to apprenticeships, which is very important for good vocational training, the Right proposes to reduce, i.e. half, the employer’s fee for new apprentices from the second half of 2007. The priests in the Norwegian Church do an important job. To ensure that the proste reform is implemented in a good way, more money is needed for performance. Right, they're going to give us $15 million. kr to several performances, and of which it is earmarked for positions of student priests in Oslo and in North-Hålogaland. Norway shall be a knowledge society in the fields of school, education and research. It's in the good times that we now have, that we have a real chance to put the image behind us and prepare the basis for future generations. It is just these times that it becomes so completely incomprehensible that the Government, with the Federal Council of State Djupedal at its head, finds it sensible and wise to take a break in research and education policy. With the rest-carrier, Djupedal has used a metaphor belonging to the skating port for approx. Twenty years ago. A rest cutting is usually a warning of poorer lap times, and that the runners have faulted the forces. With this budget, the government is reversing the time for research and education for many years. It doesn't make sense to take a break at a time when we need to give full speed. To keep us in touch with the pictures from the skate sport: when the skate audience of the 1960s at Bislett knew that the next pair of pairs were not going to be so very interesting, they would like to call it a pair of broths. In the broth couple there were very many rest cuts, and the end times were then. It is tempting to call State Council Djupedal and Prime Minister Stoltenberg the broths of research policy. A comprehensive university and higher education sector is rightly strongly critical of the draft budget that is now before us. It was cut into funding for universities and colleges, it was cut into grants for student welfare, it is cut into the SketteFUNN, and there is no money added to a single new scholarship position. And outside of the inner circle of the Government, it is hardly possible to recover someone who believes that the proposal for the research budget is not a pleasurable reading, and that it is far from the promises of the Soria Moria Declaration and the 2005 Research Communication. In one chronicle after another, the authors of the article who are negroes in Norwegian research and education have been very rough in their descriptions. When, in addition, the Council of State Djupedal believes that this budget is an offensive policy and a major ambition, it must be allowed to ask whether the Council of State has not followed and got what an overall research and university environment has tried to tell him. Mr. Kolbjørn Hagen, head of the Swedish Research Association, called the presentation a black day for Norwegian research. But to these critical voices, State Secretary Maurseth replied in a reply in the Evening Post on 27 November: ‘If the draft budget for 2007 is read, there can be no doubt about the Government’s will for research.’ For its own part, it is tempting to add that after this draft budget, there can be no doubt about the government's lack of willingness to research. For the truth, it's above the Ministry of Knowledge's budget is a $159 million cut. This appropriation is intended to cover the following expenditure: The current government parties were as late as last June with binding decisions on far higher research efforts than we see now. They were the Right Allies in research and education policy, but then the promises and ambitions disappeared in the fog of Soria Moria. The government's budget means lost opportunities for Norway. Cutting knowledge and research is cutting tomorrow's welfare. Good times are obviously not enough to get this government to invest in research and knowledge. But the government follows up its first budget. It is incomprehensible to anyone who is genuinely engaged in research and education, in future investments, that this government, as one of the first political grips it took, misses the opportunity to continue the proposed increase of the Bondevik government in the Research Fund of NOK 39 billion. It would have guaranteed between 800 and 900 million. SEK for research in 2007. It is a mystery that that possibility was not grasped greedily. The only explanation must be that the government wanted the freedom of action to spend the money on something other than research. For the following facts, Øystein Djupedal can easily turn away: When he joined the Council of State, there was a budget proposal that would provide DKK 1.4 billion in the increase in direct research appropriations in 2006, and a proposal of DKK 39 billion more in fund capital in the Research Fund. After the red-green government had made its re-priorities, the increase was reduced from 1.4 to 1.3 billion kroner, and in addition, the Research Fund's capital increase was reduced from 39 to 25 billion kroner. And it happens in a budget where the government's over-measured increase public expenditure by $8 billion. The 14 billion kr in increase was also just a follow-up to what the previous government had already announced in March 2005, i.e. about six months before Djupedal became the Council of State. So the only thing the state council can really boast about is that he didn't take a fight with a unanimous collapse in the mood. Politics is a priority. State Council Øystein Djupedal said to the Evening Post on 23 September last year that "what we want to get we get". Prime Minister Stoltenberg said at the presentation of the budget that this budget was a real political priority. Then I can only understand that this budget for research and higher education is an expression of this government's will and ability. Where the government does the big cuts on the big ones, right chooses to prioritize the big money for the big ones.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28-2.ana.ud716e807	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28-2.ana.ud716e810	Lack of willingness to research and obviously useless in research policy, Eriksen Soreide called the Government's increase in the Research Fund of DKK 10 billion. Yes, if DKK 10 billion is useless, how will Eriksen Soreide characterize its own government's increase in the Research Fund in 2004 of DKK 1 billion, and in 2005 of DKK 3.2 billion? Was Eriksen Soreide satisfied with the increase that occurred in the last three years when the previous government set?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28-2.ana.ud716e815	When I moved to another office here, I went through some old archives I had from time to time as the Young Right-leader. One of the things I found was a recipe for the new government in 2001. One of the requirements was that the research fund should reach NOK 15 billion. That was 10 billion when we went on. When our government went off, the Research Fund was 50 billion kroner. And it could have been higher if not the government that Anniken Huitfeldt represents had chosen to cut. There has been a large increase in fund allocations; there has been a large increase in direct research appropriations; there has been a large increase in university and higher education appropriations, which indirectly increase funding for research, because it is also researched by the institutions. I am very pleased with the research effort of the Bondevik government. I don't think Huitfeldt's representative has any reason to be equally satisfied with the research effort we're now seeing.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28-2.ana.ud716e824	Right will do so much, but now it won't do it forever. Before you become a student and before you go to a university and possibly become a researcher, you have to go to higher education. In the government's draft budget, more than 370 million are spent. SEK for free teaching material for students in higher education, and in three years all students will have free learning material. This does not seem to be a good idea to the right, but it wants to have a needs-tested scholarship scheme, with an entry point of NOK 210 000. Why can't Right-wing support the Government, which will give equal opportunities to all young people to take higher education, regardless of their place of residence or the family's financial resources?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28-2.ana.ud716e833	The right has made a very clear priority. For us, it is most important to give priority to all students with the worst economy before we take one class step. It has also been important for us to avoid a lending scheme, which now both KS and others who have been in the committee to consult, say that this is going to happen. A loan scheme will be very stupid, simply because it prevents students from using the books as a study technique. As a result, books become old and not replaced, and as a result, students are not given freedom of choice in the choice of learning material. The scheme we have set up is an extension of the scheme we put in place while we were in government. It was a good system and a proper system, because it's tried out. It hits them with the greatest need. We are now increasing the payments to a maximum of NOK 6000 per year, which covers more than what the scheme is doing today. I'm very pleased with that arrangement. I believe it is offensive, and I think it is targeted and correct.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28-2.ana.ud716e840	There's no more freedom of choice with the system that the Right had. After all, it's the school board at each school that decides what kind of books to use. You can't just go out and buy whatever books you want, even if you have the money through a scholarship. But it's one thing that I think you're missing from the Right when they say that there's a much better grant arrangement than with a loan scheme combined with material grants, like that's what we're adding – the states can choose how they want to do this themselves – and that's the following: Here in Oslo, which both Ine Marie Eriksen Soreide and I represent, that's how it is – I have a buddy on the East Side, and I've been with many teachers who all say the same – that every year when school starts, half of the class sits without textbooks, while the other half has it. Those who are without textbooks are the people who are waiting for scholarships. It'll be one week, two weeks, three weeks, preferably up to a month before those people get that scholarship, and hence the textbooks they need. It destroys classically.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28-2.ana.ud716e847	I guess no one is defending that the scholarship is being paid too late. But that's not what's at the heart of the question. The core of the question is whether to have a loan scheme, which we've had once before, that worked very badly, and that didn't hit socially correctly at all, or whether to have a grant scheme that meets them with the greatest need, where we're increasing the payments, and where we're increasing the point of entry for parents' income. We know it hits those who have the greatest needs, and it's most important for the Right. Now it is also to be said that I, as a youth politician, have spent some years traveling around in countless meetings and school debates for many, many years, even in the years that Heikki Holmås’ friends in the Workers’ Party have been using government power. We heard about these free textbooks this year after year, and there never happened anything. It's good that students now get cheaper school books, but the most important thing for the Right is to give priority to those who are the most disadvantaged financially, and we do that with a student-tested scholarship, which ensures freedom of choice, which ensures the replacement of books, and which ensures that we meet them with the greatest needs first.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28-2.ana.ud716e854	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28-2.ana.ud716e857	It was a proud day for the red-green government when Minister of Finance Halvorsen presented our first red-green budget that we have developed from the bottom of. We were proud of that budget because it took us important steps towards Soria Moria in areas such as transport, environment, assistance, kindergarten development and district policy, just to mention something. So it's perfectly correct, as the representative Agdestein said instead, that seams with a budget that we're proud of, where there's a lot of very important stakes in, we're not in the finish line, and we're not in the finish line, because Soria Moria is a four-year programme. What's important is that we've now taken a lot of important steps in the right direction. The government has promised the voters to bet on well-being. We promised in the election campaign. It is clear from the Soria Moria declaration that we are following it on board in this budget as well. Many welfare services are provided by municipalities. If we are to bet on well-being, we must choose to equip the municipalities to secure the good school, the good care of the elderly, the living local culture. The government has chosen to use much of the economic space that we have, just to strengthen local welfare. The growth in total revenue this year will be DKK 11.5 billion – the highest in 15 years – and this means that we receive daily reports of happiness from Kommune-Norway, which can now focus on new important actions. The figures for the third quarter of the Central Statistical Office show that growth has been particularly marked in kindergartens, care and care, school – exactly what we expected it to be. The growth in the number of annual shifts in the care sector, as we have said, should be 10,000 during our ageing period, is so absolute within reach. In addition to this, we note that it is said in many contexts that it has now become more meaningful to conduct policies in Norwegian local authorities. I also want to focus on that. Investment in a good local economy is also investment in a living government. In this room is an overall alternative to the municipality layout of Regestinga completely in blue. There is a huge distance between the proposals of the Progress Party and the financial arrangements for the municipalities of the former government partners Right and Left. While the right and left, at least in rhetoric, will pull the brake, the propulsion part gives full gas. While the Left fears overheating with the government's arrangement, the four-legged party costs the advance party on with ever more coal. The opposition parties are on a rough course in their respective directions. The Progress Party differs from all other parties in its approach to the municipalities. The lot cuts in the free revenues for the purpose of ringing and national standard solutions. This is difficult to interpret as anything other than the fundamental mistrust of the local maritime administration. The Progress Party is troubling money from the Sarepta pot, the pension fund, without the slightest concern for future generations and the activity of the Norwegian economy, the pressure on interest rates, employment and the economy of households. The only real containment proposals of importance are on aid, on the agricultural agreement and cut back on the government's district policy. As far as agriculture and districts are concerned, the only area where the opposition is credible is that they are going in the same direction, and we fundamentally disagree with that direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28-2.ana.ud716e882	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28-2.ana.ud716e885	When the Council of State comes up with its descriptions of the policy of the Progress Party, she should also perhaps take into account that the Progress Party in its alternative state budget actually proposes a strengthening of the local economy with a total of DKK 1 billion. So to a case that's very important to the municipalities in Norway and to the Norwegian community economy in general, and it's resource-intensive users. I'll refer to a couple of things if I'm allowed. Last November, the Council of State says that better solutions are needed to deal with resource-intensive users, better funding mechanisms, and the Council of State states that it will use a lot of energy in the future. In May of this year, the Council of State says that it is a good thing to work out models that are robust. They will come back with proposals for arrangements in the 2007 government budget. My question to the Council of State: Have you run out of energy? When will the solution come, and when will we have a fair system for resource-intensive users in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28-2.ana.ud716e898	For the first remarks from the representative Amundsen, I must say that with the municipal structure presented by the Progress Party, which is very difficult to dissect, but where we know that, in total, an irresponsible economic policy is being pursued, we will have a growth in interest rates that will damage Norwegian municipalities significantly. It's not worth that risk. As far as resource-intensive users are concerned, I have said many times before, and I would like to repeat it, that it is one of the bad consciences of the community that has been presented. We are working intensively on this issue in the Government. We're starting to approach a new model. It'll be important to put it in place. We'll get back to this question. I would like to see that we had done it this time. We didn't, but it's an important thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28-2.ana.ud716e905	Governments talk a lot about where the growth of the local economy is, and what growth is going on. I fully agree with the Council of State that local politicians find good, wise solutions to use the growth of the economy for the benefit of the citizens. But the Council of State is talking very little about where the growth comes from. It is that over the last three years there has been a significant growth in the economy of municipalities. If one sees the last two years as a whole, two thirds of the increase in municipal economy has come from increased tax revenue. It is therefore the country's business life, whether it is going well or bad, which is most crucial for the income of municipalities. Therefore, government policy represents the greatest threat to the welfare of the future. In good times, the Government does not invest in research and education; it does not respond to Norway’s biggest challenge, which is lack of hands and good heads. It leads a policy of higher interest rates and taxation for those who want to work extra. How can it be that a government in which the Central Party is involved does not understand that in good times one must then be able to reap well-being in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28-2.ana.ud716e920	If there's something we understand in the Center Party, it's just that you have to go to harvest! That's the policy of the Government. In relation to municipalities, it is right that we enjoy increased tax revenues. The Norwegian economy was well below parts of the period of the previous government, and the Norwegian economy is going well now. That's good, also for Norwegian municipalities. I would like to remind you of the debate in the election campaign, where from the right there was an unusual amount of emphasis on the fact that with a red-green government, Norwegian economy would be excluded. We've proved that to those degrees. That's why it's lucky that yes, we could enjoy good times in the last period, we can do that now too. And this government has proved to those degrees that it's working to keep order in its economic house.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28-2.ana.ud716e929	In a cosy portrait interview in Magasin last Saturday, Åslauga reveals that she has a past as a Sunday school teacher. And all Sunday schoolteachers know that it's important to read the text carefully and think about it when he's going to be presented to young listeners. Of course, a party leader knows all the important proposals in the government budget, both bets and deposits. I have great faith that Åslaug Haga was on the notes – or included in the text – in both underselection and government. Nevertheless, there has been some uncertainty about whether the Central Party was smart about the loopholes in the loops of public high schools in the government's draft budget. To get a clear clarification on this uncertainty, I have the following questions to the Council of State: When was the Council of State first aware of this part of the draft budget – was it before or after 6 October?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28-2.ana.ud716e936	I take full responsibility for the budget that has been presented. I take responsibility for it from a to, and I think it is quite a matter of course that a Council of State does. It is true that there was a cut in the appropriations for public schools. There were also other cuts in this budget that we would like to see were different. But we put forward a budget on which we stand perfectly upright, with an enormous amount of good and important bets. Then not everything is perfect in this budget. It may not be in the next budgets either, but what we promised the voters, is that we are going to get to what we promised in the Soria Moria Declaration, during this period, and we're going to stand by that.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28-2.ana.ud716e943	Then you'll have the cord shift over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28-2.ana.ud716e946	It is claimed by government teams that there is great private wealth in Norway and that public poverty is similarly high. Although many of those with higher income have nothing to complain about, this picture is not correct. The one who really does well is the state through its huge revenues from the oil industry, incomes that you want to share with the population to a small extent. However, the biggest impact on those who have the least is the increase in fees. These are expenditures that hit unsocially, and hard at the bottom of the ladder. The new red-green government has set itself the goal of abolishing poverty, a goal shared by the Progress Party. But then the government should start by lifting some burdens from the shoulders of those who have the least. But that's what the opposite Government does, among other things. by increasing VAT on food. This does not affect those whom the Government so reprehensible calls 'the rich'. It hits those who have to study the price tag when they are going to buy a little imposed on the breadtop. Many people who currently have a minimum pension have an apartment or a house that has increased in value over time due to developments in the housing market. This leads to an increase in taxes on wealth. Similarly, the non-social tax increase in taxes on the benefit of living in your own house. This does not lead to five dollars in additional income for the individual but, on the contrary, to increased expenditure, payable by the minimum pension. That means that a minimum pensioner who has little to stay for life because of state taxes is forced to either sell the house or the apartment or go to the social office to get to the stay of life. This is not a policy supported by the Progress Party. I understand so well that the Workers' Party has stopped singing the verse in the 'International' that is about the government to relieve the burden on the population. This government stands for the opposite! What takes me the most, and which I think is the most unworthy thing that the state does, is put the minimum pension into the part of the population that has built up this country, the ones that we can thank for the wealth we enjoy today, to a level that makes it increasingly difficult for the social office to get extra grants for living. When the majority in this room set the minimum pension to a level that leads to such conditions, while the state is swimming over with money, I feel that society has failed. It must be wonderful for people in other countries who we like to compare ourselves with, to keep up the fact that Norway, as many claim, is the world’s best country to live in, cannot even afford to give minimum pensioners a pension within the EU’s own poverty line, a pension so low that more and more people have to go the heavy road to the social office. It is not the case that all older people feel bad, on the contrary. There are many people who are raising a pension today, who are doing well, but they are the ones who have some kind of supplementary pension. The Progress Party and I are concerned that those who do not have this supplementary pension – the housewife who was at home and took care of the kids, which was common to many of the women who are currently receiving the minimum pension – should be able to live a worthwhile life with a minimum pension. Therefore, after many years of under-regulation of pensions, the Progress Party proposes that the minimum pension be raised by NOK 13 000, so that we can at least cross the EU poverty line. This means that those who do not currently have an additional pension should not go the heavy road to the local social office. So much do we owe those who have grown up with this wealth, those who gave us this unique opportunity. Thanks for this should not be that we think as much about ourselves and our future as possible, and that we should have a good pension. I had hoped that a gathering could contribute to giving those who built the wealth that many today have, and benefit from, a worthwhile life after a long work session is over. In the debate on the new pension system, the Workers' Party and SV have accused the Progress Party of wanting to make everyone the minimum pensioner. Everyone would get a worse pension. There has not been any way in which the party of progress should be with the pensioners. Now the realities lie on the table, in the form of a proposal for a better future for today's minimum pensioners, those who have the lowest pension. It reveals the true face of the Labour Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. They don't want to give the group of pensioners who today have the worst everyday life, a better everyday life. I note that for these parties it is far from talking and writing about poverty to actually propose or vote for a proposal that is in the Chamber, which could have given this group a better and more worthwhile life.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28-2.ana.ud716e963	We know from international surveys that Norwegian schools have lower expectations of what students can do than schools in other countries. This government has high ambitions about what students can learn, and the Knowledge Promise is about making greater demands on knowledge. A few days ago, the former State Secretary of the Ministry of Education came out with a book in which he writes that the next Minister of Education from the Right must do as the previous, namely put the knowledge school first, before – he writes – full kindergarten coverage, free school books and no advertising in school. We see no contrast between kindergartens for everyone and knowledge in school, on the contrary. We know that full babysitting gives all children a good start to school. The fact that the Right now states that full child-care coverage is in some kind of contrast and is negative indicates that with a right-dominated government, we had never managed to achieve the ambitions of full child-care coverage. At another point in the book, the same State Secretary sets up a contrast between investing in free school books and investing in adult literacy. This is a policy of low ambition. We prioritise both school books and more for reading and writing training for adults. In this budget, right-hand money is not spent on free schoolbooks for everyone. They cut out the appropriations of the student associations, which do very well reading and writing training for adults. They're not giving priority to any of the parts. There is no difference between free school books and adult reading. There is no contrast between kindergarten and school knowledge. We're going to pick a different side than the right-hand side. We put the school and kindergarten first, before the tax haven. In the municipalities we now see that there is a basis for increased investment in the school. The bottom was reached under the previous government. Now the arrows point up. We take seriously the higher education institutions tell us, that the students who are coming do not have good enough knowledge from high school. That's why we're betting here. This year, the increase in the higher education sector is not among our most important priority tasks. While the previous government thought there's no connection between the money we spend at school and the results that the students achieve, they're going to have to do, like, 1 pst. in reduced income, almost destroy the entire quality reform of higher education. It's an exaggeration. During the period, we will increase the appropriations for the higher education sector. We hear here that as far as the Research Fund is concerned, there is a lack of will and obviously useless to increase it by $10 billion, and 14 billion last year. But under the previous government, the research fund increased by much less: DKK 3.2 billion in 2005 and DKK 1 billion in 2004. Why 10 billion dollars is useless, but 1 billion dollars is absolutely okay, I have trouble understanding that. Being most generous the year you know you're not going to pay, doesn't testify to a great commitment to research. Real commitment is shown when you take responsibility for increased research appropriations, and that's what this government is doing. Increased commitment to research is also demonstrated by not creating any contradiction between kindergartens and research, because we have much greater ambitions in knowledge policy than the right.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28-2.ana.ud716e979	It's been an interesting day. It has been interesting to hear the debate. After listening to the government parties, I wonder if we should have proposed to wind up the roll-call elections in 2009, because with such a sovereign government and such a sovereign budget, the people of those degrees should understand it. It should have been a break-up of 110 pst. for the parties to the government – at least – following the report given to the budget here. When it's not like that, it should be a reflection of today's self-scrupulous people in special class, because it must be a surprise that there's actually not such a hallelujah atmosphere out there as it is in this room. Does that mean that the government parties don't have the ability to communicate to the voters, to the population, how good you really are, how kind you are, how good you are? Or is it just like most people don't know the government in the self-crust on the inside of this hall? The answer to what I have just said does not come until 2009, so we may be able to take that debate again. But at my discretion, it's surprising that you looked at those degrees taking off, while there's such a big difference between what you're doing here, and what you're doing, at least apparently, is selling out to the population. So some comments about the Justice Budget, which, however, is my heart closest. The Ministry of Justice has a high profiled government council with clear speech and many good intentions. The challenge is to implement them from the position of the Council of State. Over four years, opposition politicians have created great expectations for themselves, and many have probably had great hopes when they came in and took over. Therefore it was with some surprise that I registered that when we had a budget hearing in the Justice Committee, there was quite a great absence of ovations towards the Government. There was even criticism of it. It was something that I hadn't expected at least. You think that now all the floors have seen the light, because now the Great Mountain has taken the roof. With respect to reporting, it wasn't a fact. Even those who work in the prison system pointed out that much of this was trickery, it was not action, and the actions they took were not what they were asking for – cf. open parking spaces versus closed. And I thought that was surprising. At the same time, I'm going to pay tribute to the Council of State for what's in the budget, and that's the commitment to the content of the criminal justice system, that's the return guarantee, and that's what the Council of State writes about DNA. But it's all put in some mysterious light when there's no funding here, except a little bit about the content of the ransom. At least I haven't seen any funding within the budget, and in the case of DNA, it's a big word and little substance. But I can be surprised – it's Christmas soon! The councils are nodding, so that's probably what's going to happen. Then to the famished bet. The next year, based on the great wise book on which the treatment is based today, I understand that a salary increase is expected on the other side of 4 pst. If I now look at the justice system in the justice budget, it has a boost of 2.1 pst. It means a real drop to next year, and there's no reason for ovations in here. For the police, which may in some way be the primary tool, an increase of 3.2 pst has been reported, which is well below the expected wage growth to next year. That means that someone has to take the load with this. And there's no one in this room who does that, we've left it to others. So I'm a little bit surprised, because there's a lack of coherence between what you're defending outwards and what you're actually doing. What this government seems to have become best known for, must be that it is the Norwegian champion of the atonement discount. This year, a residence discount is estimated to be 150 prisons only on projected parole. It is so impressive that our current Minister of Justice beats the previous Minister of Justice – and that does not say a little, at my discretion. But honor be to him for that, and it at my discretion only confirms that our current Minister of Justice is the best friend of the criminals. I've said it before, and I'm happy to repeat it from here. It's probably also time to comment on things in more close relationships. When our current Minister of Justice was an opposition politician, he was among other things. in my neighbouring municipality and called for a spade for the construction of a possible new prison in the municipality of Fauske in the Nordic region. Nothing has happened there, and if that's how the Council of State still lacks a spade, may have given notice, then I'm going to hand it over to him, if that's what it takes to get some activity up there. Finally, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the Progress Party will support the proposal D from the Christian People's Party and the proposal G from the Left, which, in my view, is relatively similar, but we shall nevertheless support both.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28-2.ana.ud716e996	Today we have heard a lot about the greeting of Soria Moria. One representative of the adventure after another stands up and tells as if they almost believe in it themselves. And more will probably come after, when I see the dominant red-green cut in the growing list of Soria Moria-inspired tree-minute inserts. The head of the Financial Committee went up his old backyard, which, incidentally, is beginning to be as worn as a Palestinian map in a Western Norwegian folk school in the 1950s. The difference, however, is that some truths are eternal, while Schjøtt-Pedersen's attempt to write history is repeated to the boring from an apparent belief that it will become true. But it won't. The Bondevik II government did not just give tax relief to the rich. It was mainly the increase in the minimum deduction, the relief in the top tax for ordinary taxpayers and the housing tax that formed the main part of the tax relief of the Bondevik II government, in other words – for ordinary people. The same people get it several tougher during the Soria Moria hilt. In addition, the higher interest payable. The second major tax relief from the Bondevik II government had been abolished from the investment levy to ensure that Norwegian industry invested in Norway and thus secured Norwegian jobs. I have not registered that the red-greens have proposed to reintroduce it. Perhaps some of the lively growth we now experience in Norwegian business is just about to come from this. Schjøtt-Pedersen expresses with great pondus that they keep what they promise. But they don't either. On the road side, which he pulled out especially, there are 600 million. kr in relation to promises in the national transport plan and Soria Moria. At the railway bet, it looks even darker, where the red-green government is close to 1 billion kroner on arrears in relation to the NTP. In addition, this government is using a law firm. The budget documents show that there is an increase in appropriations of only 168 million. kr to initial investment on the road for next year. The rest of the guild is the toll paid by the toll paid by the municipalities and county councils. This piece of art makes it possible for them to do so because they are more than provided for by those actors, who, in turn, have to be financed in order to compensate for the lack of government appropriations. So, apparently, this looks like a bet, but the sum of commitments to the co-financers is growing and must of course be included in the next financial year. It should be exciting to follow. So, in addition, it's going to be more expensive tolls. Otherwise, in this budget, we have witnessed a historic retreat. The success of the OPS projects was gradually heavy to bear for the red-green ones. This is why the new concept of ‘project financing’ was launched with great words and high expectations last autumn. But no, the red-green government itself puts the matter dead in its proposal to the government budget. The expectation of the rest of us is thus all the greater for the Government's evaluation of the success story of the OPS projects. We really look forward to that. One of the other success stories of the Bondevik II government was public transport. Over NOK 1 billion more than the ambitions of the Sem declaration were the result. A popular measure was the urban reward scheme to stimulate increased public transport. This is a system which is greatly reduced by the current government, under the condition that the electricity charge for public transport falls away. It's just the logical flaw that it's only in Oslo you have electrified public transport to some extent. This is why it affects collective users in all other major cities in Norway. This is another example of this government not keeping it under law – that is, the opposite of Schjøtt-Pedersen's production.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28-2.ana.ud716e1013	That's the first budget that the new government has designed from the bottom of, that's for treatment, and that several people have been in while I've been sitting here, it's a clear new course. So in the last election, the majority chose that they would be more committed to common well-being than to additional tax reliefs primarily for those who already have the most. It has made the profile very clear during the first year of the government. The care sector has been given new appropriations, the health sector has been strengthened, and schools and kindergartens have been given a boost, not least through the strong increase in local government finances. In the Nordic model, a strong public sector that offers equal opportunities and provides employment security – as provided by the Government as we have removed the possibility of temporary employment to a greater extent, as proposed by the previous government – provides security. The welfare society is a resource for an active business. The same applies to the Community transport effort, which for the first time actually follows the national transport plan. For this government it is important to create values and share values. It is then important to keep the economy in order, that exchange rates are stable and predictable, and that we keep track of interest rate developments, so that the Norwegian competitive economy can compete. In addition, this government's ambition and action are moving towards a more active industrial policy. Industry neutrality has been replaced by targeted investment. An area in which it is very clear is the maritime sector, which was the subject of an interpellation debate at the end of last week. When we made sure that the net pay system for ferry companies was maintained, it was important to keep those jobs, but in addition, it was a measure within a maritime cluster, and we already see that it has produced results in terms of new investments. In addition, the Government also invested in research funding towards the same sector, through the MARUT programme for Innovation Norway and MAROFF, which is the Research Council's funding for the maritime sector. That's how we think of clusters, how we think of context, how we think of instruments that go in the same direction. Similarly, the extension of the framework to GIEK by DKK 10 billion and the reinforced investment in space technology, such as the has to do with maritime navigation. That is what we are now following with a maritime strategy, which demonstrates that in one of the government's areas of activity, we are playing a heavy role here. In the same way that we target marine sector investment, one of the strong district industries in Norway with growth potential and good development opportunities, we actively focus on research and investment in the energy sector, in order to focus on an area that will be important for Norway in the future. What we have achieved at Mongstad is a typical result of combining offensive energy policies with proper environmental policies and active industrial policies, because we are developing new industrial products – i.e. at the intersection of environment and energy. In the same way, we're betting on travel lives. The appropriations have doubled in the course of the two budgets presented by this government, in order to make a strong contribution to the sector that is growing most in the European economy. That's where people are increasingly spending their money. That activity we want our share of in Norway, because it is also an industry that provides opportunities for the whole country. In this way, we will focus on the field – through research, through our innovation grant instrument in Norway, through the second state instrument – in order to contribute together with private business to the development of the business community that will provide the basis for the economic maintenance of the welfare society in the next generation, which is once again a necessary prerequisite for good business development. So that's not the way some people make it, that the level of expenditure of the public sector is a problem for business. It's a resource for business, and we still have to work to create and share.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28-2.ana.ud716e1032	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28-2.ana.ud716e1035	The Council of State said in its statement that the Government has an active industrial policy. The truth is that the government has a poor and weak industrial policy with many critics, especially critics in its own ranks – it is a criticism that the toolbox has not been filled, which is a headline in the Newspaper on 21 November, or there may also be criticism of the Government regarding option agreements. Only in today's business today, the representative Lundteg takes up the fact that you have to split up, split up, Telenor, which the state owns 54 pst. by, and is one of the largest companies in Oslo Børs. You can also read in newspapers, listen to the radio and watch TV that the State Council's own on Stortinget is constantly making suggestions on what the Government should do. How long should the Council of State be passive and leave its own red-green on the Stortinget herring with Telenor and other listed companies?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28-2.ana.ud716e1042	I have to promise the representative that this Council of States should not be passive. Of course, with regard to our relationship with the ownership of the companies to which we are partners, which are the examples that the representative has used here, we have to be neat about following the rules that exist in listed companies. But we're going to be significantly clearer than the previous government on what we want with state ownership. It will be presented in the ownership message. In that message, neither to split up nor to merge companies, but we are going to express clear ambitions for the state as owner. The alternative to having clear opinions may be pointless. The fact that previous governments have had no stated purpose of ownership in addition to returns does not seem to us to be a proper active ownership policy when we know that the state is one of the big owners together with private ones in many of the companies registered on the stock exchange. We have to be clear and predictable in our ownership.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28-2.ana.ud716e1049	In the Soria Moria Declaration, the Government has designated the maritime industry as one of five priority industries. The right has registered the Government's net pay policy, and we have proposed our own model of competence, which also implies a comprehensive net pay system. Today's shipping tax system has expired, and in the budget the Government provides no clarification on the issue of taxation, neither system nor progress. The theme is hardly mentioned, and it is also not clear whether the Government has at all intended to propose a new shipping tax system during the majorisation period. The case has been completed and is ready for implementation. The question is: When will the Government provide the maritime industries with a competitive shipping tax system in line with the EU?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28-2.ana.ud716e1056	It is correct, as the representative says, that the matter has been settled through a public inquiry. That doesn't mean it's done with the government apparatus. But I can guarantee that the matter will work with the Government now – it is the Ministry of Finance that may present the matter – without now I can say anything about the date of submission. What is clearly both after the Soria Moria Declaration and what I have repeatedly expressed as the Minister of Shipping is that our ambition is, of course, that we should give competitively good conditions to the Norwegian shipping industry. It is a reality that shipping – which is an important part of a maritime nation, and I am one of those who believe that we must operate on shipping if we are to be a maritime nation – is actually growing. More than ever, Norwegian shipowners under the Norwegian flag, both in Norwegian shipyards and in foreign shipyards, contract. At the same time, we see that the whole industry around the shipping industry is now in a very favourable development, which is underlined by the fact that we designate ‘central expertise’ in that sector. Here this government is doing a heavy job, and that is a change in relation to the previous government.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28-2.ana.ud716e1063	Today's Business Today has a headline entitled "Will Split Telenor". It is one of the government parties’ representatives, Per Olaf Lundtigen, who announces the ‘great settlement with Telenor’. He wants the State to take sole responsibility for the development of telecommunications infrastructure in Norway. As a result, investments of billions of dollars from private companies cease to exist in a market that is interesting to them today. It will again require increased public efforts and expenditure in an area that the market is dealing with as it now operates. According to Lundtigen, there is intense work on his part and on the part of the Center Party to convince his own government in this matter. My question to the Minister of Industry will then be: Can the Council of State confirm that this intense work will not lead to, and thus reassure both the Stortinget and market actors?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28-2.ana.ud716e1068	I can confirm that there will be no proposal in the ownership message to split up Telenor. But it is a reality that the players in the market – and that is why we are betting more than the previous government on broadband expansion, among other things. – needs both grants and other arrangements in addition to what the private market can organise. I repeat that there are no plans in the ownership message to submit any proposal to split up Telenor. Of course, that would also be impossible, because in Telenor we're one of several owners, and then of course we're going to behave neatly and with respect to the other owners. We do not sit and decide on individual matters alone.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28-2.ana.ud716e1075	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28-2.ana.ud716e1079	I noticed with interest that the Chairman of the Financial Committee gave the tone for the Socialist parties' input from the pulpit today. He boasted that the Government's budget solved the vast majority of the challenges we face. And self-crust is to be listened to, it's called, because it comes from the heart. But that won't be any more true for that reason. We also heard Anniken Huitfeldt say that «we» – and I expect that she meant the government parties – «set school and kindergarten first». I'm afraid that both Schjøtt-Pedersens and Huitfeldt's perception of what it means to fulfill promises is different from what is the usual perception of the term. The government is not giving more money to basic training, while the Progress Party is earmarking 400 million. DKK to primary school and 200 million. kr for secondary education. The reason for the ringing is that the money in the municipal scheme does not actually contribute to the recruitment of more teachers in the municipalities. It doesn't get the municipalities to prioritize higher school. It doesn't help that government councils and others claim it from this pulpit, when the investigations we have so far actually show that the municipalities don't increase the teacher's density. Not a single school student in the country gets a little carrot from this government, although free fruit and green has been a trademark of the socialist parties. The Progress Party shall submit a start-up grant for school food in primary school. Free school material in high school does not come for 66 pst. by the students in the fall. The promotion party provides free school supplies to all in secondary school from the autumn of 2007, as a book and material card scheme, allowing students to maintain school material even after completion of their education. The government's bringing 274 million. kr in the transfers to universities and higher education institutions. It is contrary to the electoral promises, it is contrary to the Soria Moria declaration, and it is not least contrary to all the electoral elections and speeches that Norway should become a knowledge exporter. The progress party is proposing to remove the cut. In addition, we're going to allocate $480 million. kr for the purchase of research equipment and ICT at universities and colleges in addition to the Government's proposals. The government is putting record-breaking emphasis on research in relation to gross domestic product. The size has adopted a research effort of 3 pst. of GDP by 2010. Since its adoption in 2003, the proportion has fallen from 1.71 pst. of GDP to 1.5 pst. The government is pushing the business world so that they don't spend any more on research and development. At the same time, it intensifies the TaxFUNN scheme, which is the most successful private research incentive scheme ever. Now it is not strange that the Government will not stimulate research to a significant extent. State Secretary Lisbet Ruggtvedt escaped from the sack in our country yesterday, when she found: «There is no research that underlies our policy.» It has probably been obvious to many for a long time, although this opinion has been reproduced in connection with the icing of research into the impact of high schooling on public schools. The Progress Party proposes to maintain and extend the TaxFUNN scheme, strengthen the Research and Development Fund by DKK 25 billion more than the Government, and we propose that the State assume a greater financial responsibility for achieving the 3pst objective, by increasing the public share to 1.4 pst. GDP. The Progress Party is spending a great deal on the entire training cycle in this budget. In particular, it has been important for us to give concrete content to the concept of ‘adapted training’, and particularly important in this context is the organisation of pupils with special learning challenges. Therefore, the Progress Party shall provide additional funds for the development of better skills and better provision within or outside ordinary school for those who wish to do so. All of the knowledge-raising, all of the most important input is the teachers. The Progress Party has proposed in this room – and has been downgraded – a proposal for longer general teacher training, with specialisation for teachers who will be teaching from the 4th grade up. In this budget, we are adding an extra pot for further training for teachers who are in school today. If the teacher is not motivated and knowledgeable, we risk that the main knowledge reform in initial training may fail, and that risk will not be taken by the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28-2.ana.ud716e1096	When I was a 16-year-old who took an interest in politics, it was based on reflections and a desire to do something about what I thought was unfair, that there were great differences in living conditions. Doors that were open to someone weren't necessarily that for everyone; it was in school, work and social life. I saw that it was not just in Norway, but in most countries I learned about, not to mention the really great differences that were and are between rich industrialised countries and developing countries. The exposure from youth is retained, and the desire and will to do something about injustice is still the driving force in my political work. Norway has traditionally been a country with relatively small differences, but it is not that smaller differences between people are a political objective for all parties in Norway. There are enough of them who believe that increasing differences between people are necessary and natural — yes, they see it as an important part of the driving force of the system itself. We've seen the result. We have behind us a four-year period of right-wing policies, a four-year period in which the differences in society increased. Massive tax reliefs resulted in a biased distribution of the goods. Those who had a lot got more. Those who already had the least got the least, and the great loser was the community. There was less resources to combat poverty, provide care and build kindergartens and schools. That's exactly why it's satisfying to be part of a red-green government that's doing the opposite of the previous one. The red-green government prioritises community and reduces tax relief. Now, however, I don't think that our grip is big enough to prevent all the differences in society from increasing. Political decisions do not control everything, but there is still a big difference between policies that actively want to reduce differences and policies where increasing differences is a necessary, desirable and calculated result. We're doing a spin-off to create a fairer distribution in Norway. The red-green government is aiming to develop a good public welfare offer that benefits everyone. A good health service with low self-payment means that people get treatment based on diagnosis and not on the size of the wallet. Full babysitting at a low price makes the nursery an alternative for everyone. Improved urban economy means better care for the elderly, better schools and better follow-up opportunities for those who need it. For this government, it is important that the provision of welfare goods should not depend on the size of the wallet, but be available to all those who have real needs. At the same time, this contributes to the prevention of poverty, because these benefits are secured without compromising the individual's economy. But in addition to universal welfare systems that benefit everyone, we need an extra effort for those who, for various reasons, fall outside. The red-green government shows in this year's budget that it is serious when poverty reduction is given the greatest commitment ever. The action plan against poverty is in crowns and ears twice the size of the previous government. The action plan contains several measures that will help those who are most difficult in Norway today. Social assistance rates are increased by 5 pst. in addition to price adjustment, to improve the conditions of those who for shorter or longer periods are unemployed and without entitlement to other aid. In addition, a completely new qualification programme is also introduced, providing for a higher level of social benefit and closer follow-up, in order to obtain long-term beneficiaries of social assistance in work. This does not in any way mean that the problem of poverty in Norway has been solved. And yes, some of us will do more in this field — much more — but in the action plan that is available, the right steps are being taken to combat poverty. The course has been changed. The course is correct, and the will is present. In order to be able to afford to bet on the common good and to help those who need it the most, we depend that everyone is on the split layer according to their ability. A fair tax system provides money to the community and benefits from those who have the most, to those who have the least. It is both right and important that those who have the most contribute most to the community. This also contributes to reducing the disparities in society. As Einar Gerhardsen said, those with the widest shoulders should carry the heaviest weight! Such an understanding is also at the bottom of the red-green government when it seizes a more redistributive tax system. The tax on high income, the top tax, has been increased, but it is equally important to tax capital income, income from wealth and, in particular, income from shares. It's from here that the richest get a lot of their income, not through ordinary employee income. There is also a need to change taxes on wealth in order to ensure that they are fairer. The main approach is to ensure a more real valuation of the assets combined with an increase in the base deduction. The richest have to pay more taxes on wealth, while pensioners and small savers are largely shielded. It feels good to help secure political decisions that are in line with the political ideals that I received as a young person and still have.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28-2.ana.ud716e1124	From my point of view in the Committee on Transport and Communications, it is natural to talk a little about good transport and communication services, which are so important for business, for housing, for development and value creation throughout the country. The government of Stoltenberg has realised this and has therefore submitted a state budget with a total of SEK 2.1 billion for transportation. The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party were united and given a majority, with the votes of the Advance Party and against the votes of the Right, Left and Christian People's Party, for a stronger commitment to trade when the Stortinget dealt with the National Transport Plan in June 2005. Then we were in opposition. Now we're in position, and we deliver. Never before has any government been able to follow up the national transport plan with money in the budgets. This government will be the first. The objective of the Soria Moria declaration is clear: the national transport plan shall be implemented over the budgets. The 2007 state budget proposal means that we are up to the level we promised. The Government respects the rights of employees. We also promised that before the elections. We have reversed the amendments to the Working Environment Act, including: as regards access to temporary employment and the overtime arrangements that have been reversed. Another important example is that we have stopped privatisation, for example: the competitive take-up of railway traffic and the activities of the Railway Agency. The Stoltenberg government gets people to work. The availability is record low. The government wishes to welcome foreign workers into the heat — literally. The Norwegian labour market is currently hot. At the same time, the Government is actively working to prevent social dumping. It is very important for both Norwegian and incoming workers. We promised the voters to blow off the Bondevik government's tax havens to the richest and rather strengthen the community. It has contributed greatly to the involvement of kindergartens, schools, health, culture and culture in this budget, and not least in measures to combat poverty. Working for everyone is probably the most important contribution of society to combating poverty. The Labour Party wants people to be able to choose where they want to live, and to allow local residents to reach towns and villages and access services, districts need good communications. Transport challenges are different in peripheral municipalities than in major cities, but better road standards are important for the competitiveness of industry in all areas. Good accessibility is good district policy. And good progress and good roads are, in fact, also good environmental policies. Road and rail are two very important areas of activity for the red-green government. That is why we increased the appropriations in the budget last year, in the revised budget in May, and are now taking the huge promise of DKK 2.1 billion in the 2007 budget. Compared to Bondevik's last chance in the 2006 draft budget, the increase is a total of DKK 2.5 billion. The railways get one of the two billion that the budget for transport is increasing. Railways have experienced years of delays in maintenance. This is turning around. The railway will be better and more reliable. This is of great importance, especially for the carriage of goods by road. Maintenance on our highways has been systematically down-prioritized over many years. All the political parties must be held guilty here. But now the cleanup work has begun after past omission sins. With this, the maintenance budget increases so much that road damage stops. Road maintenance is increased by a total of 500 million. kr in 2007. Evolution's turning upside down. The roads will be better, both summer and winter. Like all car users, professional drivers and collective users, I am very pleased that this budget raises traffic so that we can ensure good and safe transport and communication across the country. In its first year, the Stoltenberg government has given Norway new policies. Instead of tax relief, we have chosen Community solutions, just as we promised in the Soria Moria Declaration. In other words, the government is delivering. In the end, I would like to say that there are some people who stand and are ephemeral from this pulpit, and do not think we have allowed enough for transportation. Then I remember what happened during the previous period.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28-2.ana.ud716e1155	The President has some doubts as to whether it is parliamentary to say that representatives are ephemeral.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28-2.ana.ud716e1158	Today's debate has shown that apart from all speakers, Norway is a rich country and the state has a lot of money. There has been a lot of talk about how to distribute this wealth, and as usual little talk about how to create future values. What is certain is that Norway’s role as an energy nation has laid the foundation for its well-being. The hydropower provided the basis for industrialization, and since the 1970s we have exported oil, coal and gas. It is an energy export that has made the country a very rich country. This fact makes it just so terribly more strange that the country's own energy supply is under pressure. An ever-increasing loss of power has developed. This is not just the government's fault. It is a problem that has grown under several governments. This makes it no less serious that we are dealing today with a budget that does not bear any trace of the Government taking the power challenge seriously. Thus, the Norwegian force imports approximately every year. 10 pst. of all the electrical power we use. As consumption increases by 2-3 pst. in the year, there is no traceable increase in electricity generation. This meets the majority with the following measures: Wetlands and ten other major watercourses that could have made a significant contribution to renewable power generation in Norway. You protect large areas of Norwegian forest and 25 pst. of the bioenergy available over the next 30 years. They say no to green power certificates, which could make a major contribution to both the power supply and the investment in renewable energy. Nor is Statnet given the financial strength needed to take the necessary steps in the distribution of power needed to secure energy supplies in the future. So the government is adding to the top of it all a tax on the incineration of waste, which will lead to smaller waste going to energy recovery in Norway, while more is being driven in trucks to Sweden. I can come up with just one concrete grip the government has taken to meet the power crisis so far. Pellet ovens have been supported. The government itself says that this scheme can release up to 20 GWh of new energy. That's 1 pst. of today's power deficit, and this can once hardly be called a good start. The consequence of this lesion of action is that consumers in central Norway, industry, business or ordinary consumers, are hit and are charged with higher electricity bills. This is despite the fact that the majority have repeatedly promised that consumers in the region would not be affected. For the industry in Helgeland, in Trøndelag and in the West, no new investment will be made until the power supply is secured. I really hope that we will see more willingness to act over the next year than we have seen so far, more than what we see in the budget. If not, I'm afraid the positive development of Norwegian industry will stop and turn around. In this context, I would also like to point out that Norwegian industry is largely owned by companies that invest worldwide. At the same time, it is important to impose environmental requirements on Norwegian industry, but in such a way that industry is given time to make the necessary adjustments and not in a way that makes competition conditions in Norway much worse than in the other countries with which we compete. In fact, the Progress Party believes that Norwegian business has shown that they take environmental responsibility. For example, Norway will meet our emission reduction requirements for sulphur, as defined in the Gothenburg Protocol, precisely because in its time industry, in cooperation with the Progress Party and the Stortinget, created what was called the Industry Environmental Fund. The Progress Party launched a revised proposal to introduce a NOx fund in line with the model of the environmental fund of industry. This was voted down, and the government came back to Stortinget with a proposal to introduce a NOx tax instead. The husband of poor industrial and fisheries tradesmanship has never seen this hall before, and I hope we won't see it again either. That the government has now turned around and said that they will nevertheless follow the advice of the Progress Party to go in favour of an environmental fund solution, we appreciate it very much, but this should have meant that the government could also have waited to introduce the levy from 1 January 2007, until the fund was in place. In conclusion, I would like to remind you of the many promises we heard in the election campaign on support for gas infrastructure both to Grenland and to Trøndelag. We note that there was both a widespread election campaign pledge from many of the majority representatives that getting in place gas infrastructure both for Forest and for Her Island would be almost a formality with a red-green government. We are today promoting proposals to establish a gas infrastructure company and provide the company with 5 billion kroner in equity. The majority representatives from Telemark and Trøndelag are cordially welcome to follow up the election campaigns. I regret to say that some of the representatives from Trundellag later said that it is more important to get Rock City to Trundellag than gas power plants. It does not support the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28-2.ana.ud716e1197	A strong and healthy municipal economy is a prerequisite for a good welfare offer across the country. In the Soria Moria Declaration we said it crystal clear: the free income of the municipal sector should be significantly strengthened during the ageing period, so that the provision of school and care for the elderly can be improved. I don't think anyone is in doubt that we have understood what the term "significant" means. We went high from the jump edge and promised NOK 5.4 billion more in free revenues for 2006. When the budget came, we were up to 5.7 billion kroner. Today, we can see that the growth in free income for the financial year 2006 will amount to a total of DKK 9.5 billion. The government allows the local government to keep every penny that comes extra this year, because every penny is needed. Important welfare offers have been rescued from cutbacks, and in many places there has been room to improve the offer, especially to those most in need of a better offer. Speaking of the jump edge: If we don't quite hear the Kollen roar, it must be said that we have been watching more than general enthusiasm around. Extraordinary tax revenue also provides an opportunity to correct much of the local economy's deficit. The increase in tax revenue also allows for an increase in the free income of municipalities next year in relation to what was presented in the municipal bill and revised national budgets. The number has now increased to nearly NOK 3.7 billion. And besides – as everyone we know here: the ability of municipalities and county councils to make a good offer is more than free income. Own grants to kindergarten bets are one example of that. The sector’s increase in total revenue for 2006 and 2007 amounts to more than approximately DKK 18 billion tells of a formidable investment. And we're not at the end of the road. We have even greater ambitions to ensure even better quality and the necessary quantity. We continue to invest in our common well-being. That's why we're here, and that's why we would be in the majority and government position. Tax-impaired municipalities also gain, through income balancing, that the municipal sector is offset by increased tax revenues. But because we believe that framework transfers provide the best distribution effect, we chose to add the entire growth of DKK 5.7 billion to the budget procedure last year into the framework grant. That's why the loved ones get $1250 million. kr in additional additions to free revenues next year in the form of framework grants. All municipalities experience a new time. Nevertheless, municipalities, both small and large, are striving to make ends meet. The reasons can be many, and often this illustrates how tough many municipalities have had it in recent years. But not rarely is much of the problem related to today's income system. Some municipalities find it difficult to find out more criteria and feel that they are not getting their share of the growth of the local economy. We're going to do something about that. Like many local politicians, we in the Workers' Party and the other two government parties are impatient. But the system is complicated, and we have to do good work. This is really a matter of everything. In addition, we invite you to cooperate with all parties in Stortinget. We think it's wise to do it this way in order to achieve the best possible income system that's going to last over time. In these days, the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs will set up a cross-political sample, which will present its report on 15 September next year. The selection consists mainly of local politicians from different types of municipalities. The amendments shall be presented in the municipality’s proposal for 2008 and shall apply from 2009. It poses challenges to be a municipality, whether it experiences strong population growth or strong decline. That is why, in particular, in the context of the review of the income system, we want to look at the specific situation of these municipalities and see whether there is a basis for special compensation for these municipalities located in the income system. Finally, to sum up, we're in the loop and more than that. When the Government gets another government budget or two, and a better income system is in place, Norwegian municipalities, that is, small and large in this country, can really go bright in that way. And so it should be, because well-being is most important.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28-2.ana.ud716e1220	What characterizes parts of the health budget of the red-green government is less for those who have at least before, and who need it the most. When we are affected by disease, it is essential that we receive high-quality rapid health care. Today, many patients experience a long waiting period and poor health care organisation. In the Right's alternative budget, we have increased the appropriations for health and care by 325 million. kr in addition to the Government's proposal. Together with proposals for more effective organisation of healthcare, the Right’s budget provides for some 23 000 patients to be treated more than the one proposed by the government of Stoltenberg. This will help patients to receive faster and better health care. The right priority is primarily habilitation and rehabilitation in its alternative budget, with a total of 500 million. kr for bet in this area. Rehabilitation is about giving people suffering from illness or injury an opportunity to master their daily lives, to come back to work and actively participate in society. Today, many people feel that they are not getting completely needed rehabilitation, and therefore become dependent on the help and social security benefits of others. Although the Government has promised that all those who need it will be offered rehabilitation and training, the reality is that the number of rehabilitation stays is reduced by 16 pst. in 2006, a significant reduction of only one year. Right-wing investment in rehabilitation is an investment in increased quality of life and self-driving for many people. At the same time, this effort provides a basis for reducing the cost of sick pay and disability benefits and is therefore also a good social economy. On the right, it is considered unsustainable that patients wait a long time for help, while the capacity of private healthcare providers is available. It is particularly alarming that mentally ill children and young people on average wait more than three months for the necessary treatment. The ideological struggle of the government against private providers leads to longer waiting time and a classed health care system. It makes no sense for children and adolescents with mental illness to be in line for months to receive treatment when there is no capacity for private psychologists and psychiatrists. With the government's policy, private health services are reserved for patients with a good economy, while others are referred to a long public health queue. The right is therefore in favour of healthcare companies purchasing more healthcare from private hospitals and specialists, so that all patients can use these services for public account. So let's take a total of 192.4 million. kr for the purchase of healthcare from private providers in addition to what the Government proposes. In particular, this will contribute to faster health care for children and young people in need of mental health protection, drug addicts, and patients in need of rehabilitation and orthopaedic surgery. Right is very disappointed that the government is doing the least for those who need it the most. There is good evidence that there are failures at all stages of drug treatment and mental health protection. Despite this, the Government proposes to step down efforts in the areas in relation to the budgets of Health Minister Ansgar Gabrielsen, from the Right, presented for both 2005 and 2006. According to the Board of Directors, the government's proposed drug budget is the worst in eight years. The right is proposing to increase the appropriations for mental health protection by a total of 110 million. kr in relation to the Government’s proposal. In this allocation, work-oriented interventions are a priority, together with interventions for mentally ill children and young people. The right doubles the government’s proposal to bet on drug treatment and facilitates the provision of treatment to more people. For the Right, it's about giving more to those who need it the most. That's our priority.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28-2.ana.ud716e1239	In the 2007 state budget, the government has increased its investment in the north by 274 million. focussed on knowledge-building, industrialisation, the strengthening of peoples' cooperation and enhanced cooperation in areas such as petroleum, fisheries, the environment and health and social policies. The government prioritises environmental and resource studies linked to an overall management plan. The monitoring and strengthening of knowledge of the seabed shall continue through the participation in the MARANO programme. Eighty million. kr has been granted to the International Polar Year 2007-2008. In particular, from a resource and environmental perspective, the work of the Coast Guard is crucial to preventing unregulated and unreported fishing in the Barents Sea, and it is gratifying that the Government has further increased the allocation of the Coast Guard by 18 million. kr. Governments will focus specifically on areas related to research and innovation, including: through SIVA and Innovation Norway. Two new district-oriented seed funds are established north – one in Bodø and one in Tromsø. The funds will be able to provide knowledge enterprises in northern long-term equity and important, relevant competences. It has been said many times, not least by Minister of Foreign Affairs Jonas Gahr Støre, that people of the People's Cooperation should take priority in the North Region policy. People of the people-cooperation in many areas of society are involved in building on the good neighbourly relationship between the peoples of the north, and it is absolutely vital for the great degree of trust we depend on to have in order to cooperate and live closely with each other in peace and tolerance. It is particularly gratifying to see how the cultural field has been used for inter-peopleal cooperation across the borders of the north. So it's great to see that culture is one of the deformed winners of this year's state budget. The increase in the budget of time, at almost DKK 0.5 billion, will benefit culture throughout the country in 2007, and it is in stark contrast to the proposal of the largest opposition party, which will cut almost 800 million. kr on the 2007 cultural budget. The strong cultural effort of this Government will provide both institutional cultural life and the free field with good armaments. Art and culture are, above all, important in self-responsiveness – important for the experience and recognition of the individual and for mankind in common. But culture also has a potential from a business policy perspective. It is important to highlight the link between a professional, rich and diverse cultural life and an increasing demand for artistic and cultural experiences. In the Soria Moria Declaration, the Government says this about culture as an industry: ‘Cultural policy must actively facilitate cultural-based economic development. The Ministry of Culture’s appropriations for cultural purposes will often be the stable basis on which cultural industries can develop further.’ A key point here is that public cultural appropriations are an essential input to unlocking the food potential in the field of culture. The growth we have seen in the cultural industries in recent years has not only happened in the larger cities; there are also good examples of successful initiatives in the districts. In Stryn and Valdres, young fashion designers have settled and started design activities inspired by local textile traditions. Elsewhere, relocated arenas have been used for artistic and cultural purposes, often in premises where other activities have been lost, such as: FilmCamp Målselv in Troms, with large, internationally directed film production in the abandoned defence camp Holmen, and the old power station in Tyssedal in Hordaland, which has now become a fantastic cultural building. These are two very successful and exciting examples of the opportunities offered by the arts and culture field both in the field of nutrition and in the field of site development. It is therefore great that the Government is now developing its own action plan on culture and nutrition, a plan that will make an important contribution to the realisation of the potential of the arts and culture industries. It is important to point out that the focus on cultural industries has a regional, national and international dimension. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs is taking part in the 75-million Regeringa cultural summit. to culture and contribute to the renewal and strengthening of international cultural cooperation. Ten million. the U.D.’s cultural budget is part of the Government’s Northern Investment and is earmarked for cultural and information activities in the North. This Government's broad commitment to art and culture is part of a comprehensive policy of building skills and releasing the creative power that exists in the individual and in the society in which we live.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28-2.ana.ud716e1268	‘Action — no more words’, said former Minister of Finance Per Kleppe of the Workers’ Party, in a debate in the Newspaper yesterday. The installation is about climate policy. I agree with you so much so that the heart agrees! Think of so many words, so many newspaper posts, so many party speeches, so many investigations we have about climate and the environment. I could have framed them – all the reports, all the organizations – but I'm going to save you. Four pages of yesterday's VG were filled with the theme of climate noise. The newspaper calls the new opera "The Underwater Opera". Tabloid brought up the topic yesterday — it is not the first time, and it will hardly be the last time this topic is debated there. In all of this, current Minister of Finance Kristin Halvorsen criticises, according to the media, environmental protection and says that they should get out of the role as a kind of fraction in SV. And in yesterday's tabloid, it was clear that the environmental movement is starting to be of concern to the Minister of Environmental Protection, also from SV. And we in the Left, who thought SV was the environmental guarantor in the Government. Who else is it supposed to be? The left is disappointed with the government's environmental effort in the state budget in several areas. The government reduces the effort on the reward scheme for public transport. The left believes it should be strengthened. It also meant SV in opposition. And I understood it so that SV's Hallgeir Langeland takes a positive view of the Left's proposal for an increase in the reward scheme. That is why I was very disappointed with the response from the Oslo representative Heikki Holmås today, when he said that it did not come up with a speech. The increased transfers to the municipalities should also be used for this purpose. I respectfully believe this to be a testimony to little knowledge of the special challenges of the big cities. The reward scheme has been a success in the cities that have benefited from this scheme – just think of the rolling pavements, five-minute routes in Oslo and real-time information, a service to travellers that makes them know when the public transport actually comes. With increased efforts on the reward scheme, the Left had hoped to extend this scheme to several urban areas – Fredrikstad, Sarpsborg, Drammen, Grenland region and Tønsberg should also be supported for public transport. Unfortunately, with the Government's proposals, this is not possible. We have to facilitate the collective travellers, that's what's the success factor! How else are we going to get people to travel collectively? It is insanely pleasant to choose the car, also for us who live in urban areas. Price, punctuality and service are important to make people choose to travel collectively. This requires increased bet, not reduced bet, as the current government adds. The next area where the government is disappointed is the car charges. The purpose of the government's conversion of car charges was that the most environmentally friendly cars would be cheaper. It wasn't like that. The most environmentally friendly cars, the ones that use the environmental gasoline bioethanol, turned out to be more expensive. Now the importers of these cars are warning that they are giving up the Norwegian market. Do the government parties understand that people feel cheated? The left has also proposed, in the treatment of the State budget, to require the largest oil companies to convert biofuels. Biofuels do not contribute to CO2 emissions and are therefore very climate friendly. A turnover directive will allow the individual purchaser to drive with a clean conscience. A sales order has been completed by the SFT and is located in the Ministry of Environment. It's just for Helen Bjørnøy to put it into life. It is strange that the proposal did not get the conclusion of the government parties. Finally, after SV has been flirting with the environmental protection movement for all years, it is a little strange to see what is happening now. With a Minister of Finance from SV and a Minister of Environmental Protection from SV, the party now has every opportunity to implement the policy they so offensively expressed in opposition. The test piece for the Left in the field of transport policy is on SV supports the Left's proposal for more money for the reward scheme and a directive on biofuels.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28-2.ana.ud716e1294	It is exciting to follow the financial debate in one of the richest countries in the world, and ask yourself as the hours go by: are we in the vicinity of what are the major challenges both for Norway and for the world? I can wonder. When I hear part of the opposition's posts, I have to say that at times it's getting small. We have heard considerations about both alcohol taxes and other occupations as if it were approaching the end of the world. We're looking at all of the fields we're fighting for, whether we're in government or in Stortinget. In fact, there are some broad lines both in this budget that the Government has put forward, and to the extent that in each ministry's budget, it is only as important and more important to focus on, and get a new course in relation to, and I am glad that the Government actually takes care of it. Firstly, some of what I see as the most important thing in this budget, the government's international investment, the government's international commitment to the poor who have significantly less resources to go through – yes, which is not close to having the focus we have, whether we approach road taxes, alcohol taxes, chocolate taxes or taxes on goods that others can only look very far behind. The second point that I believe the Government is really addressing is the environmental effort that is now in the budget linked to technology in terms of clean-up, and other good and well-targeted environmental measures that the Minister for the Environment has explained, and which I believe are a good response to the previous speaker's comments. The third point that I think the budget should be seen in the light of, which is very few, and which also deserves attention, is the extent to which the state budget can contribute to the cohesion of people here in Norway — and to the extent that it is also between people in Norway and people in other countries. In particular, I would like to point out the steps that are now being taken with regard to the distribution through the tax mechanism, but also the measures – both large and small – that have been taken, among other things. in the case of changes to fees. It is with respect to report important to those who today face a very sore and difficult economic situation, that the Government is now taking action. The government is taking action against those who are under compulsion and for what is in many ways the last to enter a bad future economy: when the chemist is standing on the door to take away one of the assets he needs in everyday life. The fact that the government in this budget reduces these fees by over 200 million. kr., in my opinion, is a significant and well-balanced poverty effort. I would also like – as a new element – to point out the dimension of this budget, which I believe both the Minister of Finance and the other College can be very proud of. It's the effort to build a social network, a social community -- the ability to spend money on this community and not on each one of us alone. It is also important in the sector that I have been assigned to direct through the activities of the Ministry of Justice. Maybe we're not focusing too little on just this, for example. to be able to do something about the crime scene. The efforts that are now being made outside the municipalities are precisely enabling the municipalities to pursue active policies, among other things. with regard to prevention. Resources have been prioritised away at a time when the frames have been small. It concerns kindergartens and integration. I see with horror and horror a progress party driven Norway, where, therefore, cuts are made in appropriations for the integration of our new compatriots – also in relation to the crime scene. I would like to call for a warning no to the cuts in the appropriations for the tax rate and the customs duty rate proposed by the Progress Party in particular. A dramatic cut is proposed, which would have a significant impact on the number of staff required to carry out effective control activities. Once again, it would be propagated as a major problem in matters relating to the detection of organised crime, economic crime and cross-border crime — areas where there is otherwise very high ground. Cutting 500-600-700 employees in these agencies, as proposed by the Progress Party, will have considerable effects. Then we would really need the large police appropriations. That's why I'm glad that the government is betting on this, while at the same time working hard to respond with a well-equipped criminal service and a well-equipped police force when criminal acts occur.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28-2.ana.ud716e1316	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28-2.ana.ud716e1319	I want to challenge the Council of State in terms of the following: there has been a nuance in the perception of things. Governments have gone through the differences and the concern he sees from his point of view. I did the same in my article earlier this evening. However, it is probably a fact that Norway agrees with most of the examples. Justice policy. One might discuss alcohol charges, but then I think we've just mentioned a little bit of this. When we dealt with the police role message in the last session, and when we dealt with the criminal law and other major issues, I understood that the Storting was committed to seeking community solutions, so that there was a common platform when this was the case. It shows that if you get a change of government, the policy changes in a way, but not in 100 pst. – you carry on some of the big lines. My challenge is: does the Council of State share the view that it is important to find comprehensive and common solutions, so that the Storing can be as united as possible about the proposals being promoted?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28-2.ana.ud716e1328	As far as criminal policy is concerned, my answer is yes. I think it is incredibly important for us to be as united as possible about the methods that the police are allowed to use, and the criminal responses that we are going to make to those who commit criminal acts. It is important that we ensure both trust in and legitimacy for such enforcement. And it requires consensus to the greatest extent possible. That is why I would have hoped that the Progress Party could have helped to bring about greater consensus on what is perhaps the most important thing in criminal policy, namely the prevention of criminal offences. The arrests made by the Progress Party in its proposal for a State budget in terms of integration, drug taxation – which would have given us an explosion of new violence episodes in both large and small cities – the customs and tax haven and the tax haven, would have contributed to a massive need for both more police and reaction. Yes, I think we should demand that we work for consistency in response and prevention.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28-2.ana.ud716e1337	The Minister of Justice has made the settlement of the settlement queue one of his most important matters. While the number of judges for serious crime is increasing and the police are experiencing a major shortage of custody facilities, the Government’s response is almost one-sided in open settlements and extended and uncritical use of advanced parole. In As a prison, we have seen examples of prisoners who, during an escape attempt, killed a prison employee, being ‘rewarded’ with further advanced parole. How can the Council of State defend the fact that there is no clear response from society in such cases? Does the Council of State consider that this is a sound human resources policy towards the prison staff, or has it now reached such a point that the purpose of the settlement of the settlement queue is overall the violent conduct of the prisoners and the demands of society for protection against dangerous criminals?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28-2.ana.ud716e1344	The settlement of the settlement queue is one of the most important things this government is working on in the field of criminal policy. I'm glad that the whole government has wholeheartedly supported the strategy proposed by the Ministry of Justice, which is now actually helping to get the payroll down – I checked the latest figures today, it's down to 2,269. So you're getting closer to a lower level than you've had in many years, especially what you had in the previous government. We see that the measures that we are taking are useful and correct. I think absolutely we're on the right track. So it's not right, as the representative imagines, that we use early release uncritically. If the practice now followed by the Government is uncritical, then the practice of the previous government was equally uncritical, for it was exactly the same practice. We have not changed practices – we follow the same one. And we have suggested to Stortinget that we not extend the use. I therefore find it difficult to see that this is an uncritical handling.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28-2.ana.ud716e1351	The Council of State began with the fact that he was Minister of Justice in one of the world's richest countries and with the most spacious budget available. Nevertheless, I would like to ask the Council of State why he has then chosen to cut down on money to the Office of Free Justice in Oslo. Yes, it is that the Council of State argues that this must be done to keep the Street Lawyer of the Bymission. Talk about really putting the weakest up against each other! My question will then be whether this is done just because the office is in Oslo, or whether it is only because this is a very resourceful group that does not need more help. Or is it actually such that the pressure that left has been exerted in Oslo, now leads the Council of State to realize that this was a little stupid, and that you can get to a split with the Municipality of Oslo to get this office up and go?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28-2.ana.ud716e1358	The post under which the Legal Aid Office of Oslo is supported is an item to be shared by many. It has been important for the Ministry of Justice – I think it was also important for the Ministry of Justice under the previous government, which is why an evaluation of the law office in Oslo was carried out – that these funds are targeted, so that there is no discrimination in relation to the use of instruments and money. But I am pleased to be able to tell the representative Skei Grande that today – just a few hours ago – we have been negotiating with the Municipality of Oslo and got a solution for the Legal Aid Office. The Legal Aid Office will have the same budgetary framework for the next year, with good help from the Municipality of Oslo and from the Ministry of Justice, so that the operations that have been carried out there, both in the current year and last year, will continue at the same level. So we have in many ways reached an agreement around this office that contributes to the fact that the important business is now going to continue.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28-2.ana.ud716e1365	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28-2.ana.ud716e1368	Let me first be allowed to arrest the State Council of Storberget for his creative but completely unfair representation of the Advance Party's alternative state budget in terms of integration. Our policies must be comprehensive in assessing the impact of our integration policies. It is clear that when the Progress Party dramatically reduces the number of immigrants arriving in Norway, the need for money for integration is, of course, less. And in our alternative state budget, we are reducing much less integration measures in relation to the number of people who would have come as a result of our policies. So the amount that we're using for integration is going to be per. head, per head, per head, per head, per head, per head, per head, per head, per head, per head, per head, per head, per head, per head, per head, per head, per head, per head, per head, per head Immigrants, with our alternative state budget, are far higher than the government's policy – just so it's clear. But I was actually going to talk a little bit about community economics. I get a bit touched when I hear the representatives of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV paint their pink picture of the local economy. So if we look at what the government originally proposed, it was for 2007 it was about NOK 2.4 billion. But then the NAV reform, which will cost the municipalities 300 million, had not been taken into account. kr, at increased social assistance rates of 200 million. kr, or for the inclusion of earmarked grants for minority language students of SEK 840 million. kr — a number of items that did not appear in the figures. But then the government suddenly came up with a little extra money, and the total increase to the municipalities was NOK 3.7 billion. I don't know if this is all the world to boast about, because while the government is making laws on behalf of the municipalities, there is therefore no obligation that the money be used as the Council of State and the Government claim on a number of occasions that they are being used. That is why the Progress Party in its alternative state budget actually increases the appropriations for the municipalities by SEK 1.5 billion, we improve the municipal economy by SEK 1.5 billion compared to the Government's proposals. Let's do that, for example. by earmarking money for elderly care, care and care, to school — 600 million. kr – and, above all, we strengthen the funding of resource-intensive users. Resource-intensive users have been a post that the Government has promised on a number of occasions to come back to, have promised to strengthen, have promised to do something about, because it is a completely unfair system that strikes out very randomly between municipalities. A small municipality can turn a surplus into a deficit just because it moves users to the municipality. Of course, it's a hopeless system, something that has to be done about. The government has announced this for a long time, but the Progress Party is in its alternative state budget alone to propose to do what the FFO wants: we're lowering the entry point to NOK 600 000, and we're increasing the country's share to NOK 80. – An extra $1 billion for the municipalities just there, and an extra $1 billion that actually means something, because there is no justice in the system that exists today. At the same time, I just want to come with a little heart attack. When we talk about ‘resource-intensive users’, it is a formulation that is not particularly fortunate. I wish the government in the next round would be in charge of perhaps using a slightly different wording. A number of other wordings have been proposed here, including: «resource-intensive services» means «users with specific needs». I think that's a stigmatizing expression you add up to there. In any case, with the alternative state budget of the Advance Party, we strengthen the municipalities considerably. We earmark the money where the government promises the money – to care for the elderly, to school – and we do it concretely in our budget. At the same time, it is not possible to jump under the chair that this is, of course, one step on the way to the system that we really want, namely a differentiated price system where the need governs the payments from the state.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28-2.ana.ud716e1383	Last year, the fight against poverty is one of the clear budgetary gains. It's not random. It's about fulfilling one of the most important promises of Soria Moria. The national budget shows the OECD review of the impact of different welfare models on employment and cohesion. Our model comes out well. In conversations with European colleagues who are struggling with high unemployment and great social differences, we often meet the statement: it is no problem for you, you have oil! The Minister of Finance pointed out in the financial speech that this was not true. We have oil, but it's not the value of oil that's Norway's most important asset. The most important thing is a well-qualified, highly educated population, the result of a conscious balancing of differences between the director’s and worker’s children — a central feature of the social-democratic welfare model. Low unemployment is another good benefit for those outside the labour market for various reasons, a third. The number one requirement of the labour movement has always been work. It's not random. Work is the key to prosperity for the individual, the prosperity that makes it possible for us to have decent support schemes for those who need it. The arrangements are under pressure. We're getting older. Several of those who are now in full or in part outside have to enter the job. Many will, but experience exclusion or exclusion because of prejudice, lack of qualifications or requirement to provide 110 percent. The trade mark of social democracy is ‘the ability to provide, to obtain as necessary’. The red-green majority has increased the appropriations for poverty reduction by one and a half billion in two years. But we break with important welfare policy principles if we let it go. Combating poverty is not just about giving more money. Combating poverty is probably so much about enabling people to earn the living through their own work. It's a human right to contribute to the value creation of the community you're part of. It's important to our identity. It's important to our well-being. It is not for nothing that we have Section 110 of the Basic Law, which requires us to facilitate that every working person can obtain the benefits of his own work. Many outside the workforce are considered to be working or would like to be, in whole or in part. But we obviously have to think completely new to extract unused resources from people. The NAV reform and the Single European Act on work, well-being and inclusion point forward. Focusing on mastering, significantly simplified legislation and wider range of instruments, more people will have the opportunity to participate. Attitude campaigns, active qualification programmes and welfare contracts will give people a new chance. Young people who struggle to get into the labour market, disabled people who often just need to show that they can actually, migrate with qualifications to keep it up, we need them all. Then we have those that can and will partially. We also need them. Here, it may well be so important to rethink in terms of other ways of organising a job than the traditional one-to-one contract between the employer and the employee. More people can share a job. Unsolved tasks in the public and voluntary sectors are in line. I have been surprised to note the last day's media debate, in which the professor, the lawyer and the lead writer have found each other: «the new index finger of the state», «workmas», «reduced legal certainty of the weakest in society» are concepts that are used about what is the greatest welfare reform in several decades. Those who can't keep their rights. Let there be no doubt about it. The new feature is that, through binding agreements, promotion and exclusion are to be given new opportunities. We're going to get away from today's unworthy system, where people have been throwing balls between different agencies for a long time. We're going to end unworthy storage in measures and passive payment of social benefits until there's only social assistance left. We need to strengthen users' rights to individualised training. We're going to give them increased benefits while they qualify. The welfare contract is binding on the user, yes, but the most important and new thing is that the contract obliges the public in a much, much stronger way than before to see the individual, listen and tailor-made arrangements in cooperation with the user, short and well delivering better quality. I suspect in the last few days that the media debate is anticipating a lack of close contact with people who can and will, but who are not allowed to. They may hardly have seen what involuntary leave does to the individual and to the whole family. With this budget, the starting point for a paradigm shift in welfare policy – from a passive beneficiary to an active and inclusive participant. Those who can and will will have the chance they deserve. This is the dignity and legal certainty of the weakest, inaction and exclusion is the opposite.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28-2.ana.ud716e1404	One of the major challenges in climate policy is the balance between environment and industry, and not least the impact of measures on Norwegian industry. In addition, the NOx case presents an important issue: should environmental taxes primarily be designed to reduce emissions, or should they also have an effect as a fiscal charge? And what is the acceptable impact for business? In general, for many Norwegian economists and in many economic environments, the Kyoto commitments are not seen as a burden on the country. On the contrary, these obligations are considered to be assets held by the State which should be sold to industry/industry to the highest bidder. For example, the CO2 ratio corresponds to: 51 million tons of CO2 times five years' allowance price, and if we put the price at 150 dollars, that totals 40 billion dollars. This kind of economic assessment or this kind of economic policy does not suggest otherwise in Europe, or hardly in any other country in the world. A number of EU countries have been active over several years in purchasing allowances to offset the national deficit. So the Norwegian industry has to deal with some problems that the industry in our competitor country is dropping. Thus, an ever-increasing problem is that in some economic environments and among some economic environments in the Norwegian government, economic governance models have been used which, in this context, have a fundamentalist view of economic theory. The perception of equal pricing of a resource in all sectors is likely to be sound policies in a closed economy, where price over-valuation to the final consumer can be carried out. What is not addressed is the fact that, when the same principle is applied without counter-conceptions in a global and open economy, we are unfortunately achieving a pointless result in the form of national production failures, which is replaced by industry and industrial activities in other countries that are not charged the same climate costs. The environmental gain is at best zero. All other OECD countries, which are also governed by sound market-economy principles, have understood this context and do not attempt to target their own industry on the basis of such a debated use of economic theory. The use of the concept of polluter-pays, which is used as an additional argument for the full cost of climate-related costs to the competitive industry, also creates a great deal of confusion. The purpose of fees or allowances trading is to correct for so-called external effects in the economy, in this case reducing the climate problem, so that the price signals turn consumption in a more environmentally friendly direction. Furthermore, when the producer of a product does not have the ability to overwhelm the climate costs at the selling price, the final consumer does not receive any price signals to reduce the consumption of the product and the environmental benefit is absent. The net result is that we hit the Norwegian competitive industry alone. In EU quota trade, the polluter does not pay. On the contrary, the main polluters, the power plants, serve grossly on the trading of allowances and partially act as tax collectors for the country. The price of allowances is incorporated and increases the price of electricity. The final consumer of electricity has to pay the full quota price and is thus encouraged to reduce energy use. On the other hand, it is unfortunate that the competitive industry using energy as an input is burdened with the full quota costs of the power plant. There is no environmental impact because the final consumer is not confronted with the climate costs due to global competition. Thus, the only way to ensure the real impact of climate policy, while avoiding very negative impacts for Norwegian industry and industry, is through closer cooperation between business and public authorities through the establishment of environmental obliging agreements that focus on both environmental and industrial considerations. The alternative to the NOx charge may be a successor model also for combating climate emissions such as CO2. The NOx fee was announced in the revised national budget in spring. In the submission to the State budget for 2007, a charge of DKK 15 per year was proposed. kg from the end of the year for emission sources representing 55 pst. of the total Norwegian NOx emissions. The authorities probably did not have a complete overview of the impact this could have on the industries concerned. I would commend the industry for thorough and constructive work in the process that followed. There has been good dialogue between representatives of the Departments, the Ministries and the business community. The solution now on the table, together with the proposed fee, provides a targeted and balanced approach to Norway’s NOx obligations. For the Centre Party, it is essential that environmental taxes are designed to maximise the achievement of their objectives, with at least possible negative side effects for a versatile business and other important societal objectives. The environmental agreement to be developed towards the revision is a star example in this way: the industries concerned, in cooperation with the Norwegian Veritas, have started to map the emission sources and the dietary-benefit effects by installing catalysts on different types of emission sources. Once the investment need has been identified, this will be the basis for determining payments to a fund. Every penny goes to environmental action. Nothing disappears in the big swallow. It is a good solution for the environment and for business.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28-2.ana.ud716e1452	The party of progress felt almost honored to receive so much attention in the opening of this debate. As an energy and environmental figure person for the Workers' Party in this debate, I will quickly complete myself with the Progress Party. Recognising that climate change is one of the greatest environmental challenges facing mankind, it is of little credit to the Progress Party that they cut more than 360 million compared to the government parties. kr in the field of the environment. This is bad! The good thing is that the total environmental expenditure on this red-green state budget is increasing by nearly NOK 3 billion, from NOK 20.5 billion in 2006 to NOK 23.3 billion in 2007, and it shows that we are raising environmental issues very high. CO2 clean-up is one of the most important measures we can take to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. That is why I am very pleased that we allocate a total of NOK 860 million to CO2 management and environmentally friendly gas technology – the bet of the times in Norway and to whom else we had to compare! We know that the greenhouse gas emissions from cars are large. That's why it's good to, for example. bioethanol incorporated in petrol is exempted from the CO2 tax and biodiesel incorporated in diesel is exempted from both the CO2 and diesel taxes. We have big international commitments to reduce emissions of nitrogen oxides, i.e. NOx. I am pleased that we have made a proposal that takes account of both the environmental and business aspects, the last through comprehensive compensation schemes for some industries affected by the NOx tax. This means, among other things: a solution of up to 100 pst. State funding of NOx reduction measures in the fisheries industry. This will significantly reduce the fee. It is also gratifying that we are able to follow up the action plan for environmental assistance of 350 million. kr, which means that we can both save a valuable environment and secure the livelihood of many people in developing countries. We're also going to be able to take care of valuable natural areas and animal species. We have a special responsibility for the wilderness, which is a Norwegian species of responsibility. Therefore, strong efforts at the two wild reindeer centres at Hardangervidda and Dovre are essential. We still have a job to do to ensure better care and administration in many of our national parks. I believe that efforts need to be significantly increased, which the responsible department must note. The same applies to our part of the responsibility for the Outdoor Councils. Basic support for voluntary environmental organisations is increasing, and that is good. These organisations are very important in the environmental work, both by virtue of the great knowledge they possess and the commitment they show. I am pleased that the Government is making every effort to improve the power balance through gas power concessions, energy efficiency improvement and the development of new environmentally friendly forces. As our power system is very vulnerable to fluctuations in hydropower generation, it is important that we achieve both more production, more efficient energy use, transition from electricity to new renewable heating and improvement and deployment of the network, so that bottlenecks both domestically and between Norway and the rest of the world disappear. With this in mind, it is excellent that the government in this budget has proposed the creation of an energy fund of DKK 10 billion and announced another DKK 10 billion to the fund in 2009. The return of this fund will more than double the effort on new renewable energy. This investment in renewable electricity, renewable heat and energy efficiency through the Enova system will help improve the power balance and make our system more robust and less vulnerable to low rainfall. The recently submitted production aid gives a clear signal to bet on, for example: wind power, bioenergy and heat production in addition to infrastructure support, inter alia. for waterborne heat. It is then suggested that Norway should continue to be a leading country in the development of environmentally friendly technologies in the gas and oil sectors. This is important for our own use of resources, while our high environmental standard can benefit other oil and gas producing countries. We believe it is important to maintain a high level of oil and gas exploration activity in order to provide the basis for stable and safe production.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28-2.ana.ud716e1501	Our red-green government has presented its first full budget. With this budget, we are taking great steps towards achieving the objectives we have set in the Soria Moria Declaration. The State budget shows that the country is now governed in a completely different direction than when the bourgeois collide with the Progress Party. Where the right side focused on tax havens for those who used to have the most, the focus is now on how we can better care for the elderly, better hospital services, better schools and increase the development of roads and railways. This is a budget for more community. We follow up on what we said in the election campaign. Also in the case of Defence, the Government follows up by granting NOK 31 billion in 2007. Thus, a high level of defence budget is maintained. All the gloomy predictions that there was going to be low defence budgets from a red-green government where SV was present are thus made to shame. Yes, even the worst critics before the budget was presented were completely silent when the budget came. This can only be seen as a good budget. The 2007 budget reinforces the operational activities of the Army, the Maritime Defense, the Air Force, the Home Guard, the Coast Guard and the Intelligence Service with a total of more than 500 million. kr. Overall, this represents a further step up of the Northern Territory Initiative, which is the main strategic focus of the Government in the years to come. In addition, our ability to participate in international operations under the UN and NATO regime is strengthened. In the defence budget too, the opposition cracks violently. The Progress Party will increase the budget by SEK 1.5 billion. The right-hand side has actually added up to 275 million. kr, while the Christian People's Party and the Left Cutters in relation to the Government's proposal. That the cut to the Christian People's Party and the Left involves stopping the work with the extension of the dry dock at Haakonsvern is quite alarming. It would have major consequences if it were adopted. Today, the old dock is a hugely exploding crater surrounded by heavy filling masses both to land and to water. Returning the explosion of the mountain would be an impossible puzzle. That's what these parts know. That is why there will literally be millions of air – yes, even blasted air millions – operating here. But here, I'm sure the Christian People's Party and the Left have made a commitment that we now have a majority government. They argue that their proposal is not adopted, while they can use the money for something else. The right criticises in the financial situation that the defence budget for next year is slightly below the agreed long-term plan. What the right forgets is that for many years there has been a gap between the initial assumptions of the long-term plans and the actually adopted budgets, regardless of who has been in government. That's the way it was when the Right was in government, and that's how it was just a year ago. The fact that we are facing significant challenges in terms of defence in the coming years is clear. The aim of the working party is to ensure consistency between the structure, tasks of the defence and the framework adopted. We will follow this up and come back to work on the new long-term plan. Looking at the growth in the municipal sector in 2006 and 2007, this means that municipalities have received almost 18 billion more in income. That's also what locals are writing about right now. ‘Cheapest to live in Spydeberg’ writes Smälenes Avis. The rapporteur says that 2007 will be a jubilee for the citizens. The budget promises better times. No areas are affected by cuts in 2007. Efforts at school and care for the elderly are increasing. They can clean up school buildings, build a new kindergarten, expand care for the elderly, which will also mean more hands to care for the elderly. High school leisure prices are now lowered by DKK 300 per year. months. It'll be cheaper to train, etc. Yes, there will be jubilee in many municipalities – thanks to the red-green government that delivers it promised. And it's good after many years of drastic cuts, where the municipalities have had very big problems getting the budgets to jump.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28-2.ana.ud716e1525	The Progress Party wants a defence policy and a defence based on the challenges we face in today's and tomorrow's societies. Furthermore, the nature of the defence must be such that it can easily be adapted to the various threat images. This can best be ensured by maintaining a fundamental defence with core tasks in Norwegian soil, but with the capacity to participate in operations elsewhere in the world. The chief of defense recently gave a lecture in Oslo Military Society, which in part created strong criticism. Yes, someone even demanded his departure. The most controversial thing in his lecture was for some, obviously, that he pointed out the consequences of the government's budget proposal. From his military professional point of view, he pointed out that there would be serious consequences, including: as regards having to go to the closure of 10–15 garrisons, to take one example – for once, I dare say, clear and clear speech from that edge. The review of the budget has always been: we have to make the best of what we've got. But it's been a long time since it's been good enough, and it's been a long time since we've been made so clear the consequences of a poor budget from a defense chief. This must also be seen as a result of a long-standing decline in defence, with the help of changing governments, and not least as a result of the defence policy agreement between the Workers' Party and the last Bondevik government in the previous period. The Chief of Defence made it clear that the government’s draft budget was not even – due to price rises, higher wages, higher operating costs, etc. – could contribute to maintaining the level of the day. The party of progress has always been a defence-friendly party. That's why we take these signals from the highest military professional team seriously. We've always done that. This time, we're going to add to our alternate budget, approximately. NOK 1.5 billion, mainly to the pointed end of the defense, because, as I said at the outset, it is best to ensure that we can maintain a basic defence with core tasks on Norwegian soil, and to have the capacity to participate in foreign operations as well. North Norway is a bet area, presenting the Government in the Soria-Moria Declaration, also military. But so far we've seen little or nothing about it. It disappoints some, not least the population of North Norway. With the draft budget presented by the Government and the dark predictions by the head of defence about restrictions and closures, there is no doubt that it will hit North Norway to the greatest extent. Our security policy situation can become complex in view of our geopolitical and resource situation. In recent years, as is well known, large and valuable deposits of oil and gas have been discovered in the major marine areas that are our responsibility, as well as the rich fish stocks. Unexplained border conditions increase the risk of conflicts and crises. Our presence in the northern regions, including Finnmark, is therefore of the utmost importance. The government's draft budget is therefore very disappointing. Bilateral strengthening agreements constitute an important security and defence policy cornerstone for Norway. It is particularly important to continue and develop the strategic partnership with the United States. Norway, as a nation, must therefore contribute to the need to handle relations, not least with the United States, in a way that strengthens the ties. An important element in this is the continuation of the pre-storage of US military materials and equipment. The Progress Party will also point to the importance of finding credible defence policy cooperation with the EU. The Progress Party has proposed through many government budgets to go to the purchase of new transport aircraft to replace our old C-130 Hercules aircraft. Over the years, we have received more good offers on new aircraft, but changing governments have always pushed the decision ahead, including this government. Right now, we're going to change the wings of our aging C-130 park to extend the life of the planes. But it is not a permanent solution, so the government has to make a proposal for replacement as soon as possible. Therefore, the Progress Party has once again in the setting, among other things. this has been proposed. Finally, Norway needs a military presence in the various parts of the country; it is important in order to ensure our strategic values. This costs, funds that the Advance Party is willing to grant, and which are completely absent from the Government's draft budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28-2.ana.ud716e1546	In this debate, too, the Norwegian health service has been the victim of a significant black paint, in particular Norwegian hospitals. It is enough to refer to the contribution of the representative, Nesvik, who is also the head of the Health and Welfare Committee of the Stortinge. There must be reason to mention that the health budget is over NOK 110 billion. $75 billion goes to health companies. We could probably use more, but it's not that bad. In comparison, it's significantly more than what we take out as a return on the oil fund, which is SEK 71 billion. We're one of the countries in the world that spends the most money on health. Over the last ten years, in herds, under various governments, we have raised our investment in hospitals from being a middle of the tree-land to being decidated one of the best. And with respect to reporting, we have experienced governments that have been far more greedy of hospitals than the red-green. There is reason to be proud of Norwegian hospitals, Norwegian health services and all the employees who each day provide maximum for their patients, and who deserve a different thank-you from Stortinget than a harsh black paint. Being proud of Norwegian health services is not the same as being content with everything. Of course, there are challenges. It's always going to be in the health care system. It's as simple as we're getting more and more good at treating, we're developing better and better medicine, and we're living more and more. This, of course, also increases the need for health care. The party of progress, in particular, is indebtedness in hospitals. Like the Government, the government is not so excited about it, and there are several reasons for it. An important reason is that it automatically does not provide more patient treatment. It is also not without further right to introduce those who are not in order in the economy. It's actually so that even here there's someone that's better in the class than others. It is a challenge for health businesses not to be able to continue with deficits year after year. The government has received support from expert teams in its financial strategy in the hospital sector. I refer you to the professor of health economics at NTNU Jon Magnussen, who believes it is wise for the government to hold back the purse. He says, ‘The new government gives hope of the end of the hospital economy’.» We hold back the money bag, yes, but the bag is not even fasted again. Hospital operations are strengthened by NOK 1.6 billion. We also spend 1 billion on pension expenditure. It's kind of not expected, but it's a cost that needs to be covered. And then the interest in correcting inequalities between health businesses has dropped significantly. But several hundred million to correct inequalities between health businesses are thus within the budget, which was necessary. So it's going to be SEK 3.2 billion more for the hospitals next year. It is also an important contribution to our guarantee that no local hospital will be shut down.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28-2.ana.ud716e1570	Norwegian business sails in co-wind. Business is going well, and unemployment is going down. High oil prices, low interest rates and international growth contribute to large surpluses. Never has there been more employment in this country than it is today. Norwegian business leaders are optimistic, and they added more people, because they believe in future. The enterprises in which the country owns experienced an increase in turnover of more than 20 pst. the first six months of this year compared to the first six months of last year. The excess was almost 50 pst. during the same period. But it's not just in the business committee's area that this government budget is good. Local authorities have increased their incomes with regard to the new government. This means that municipalities can provide better education for children and better health services in general. I therefore understand the indignation of a number of spokesmen of the Right and the Left in their alternative budgets. Here they will cut transfers to municipalities. An example of this is the Right Spokesman of a municipality in Hordaland. His municipality would have got 268,000 kroner less if Right's proposal got several. Then I'll say that the bet that's made on transportation is historic. It involves the development of both road and track across the country. Those from Akershus can delight us with the means to complete the double-track Sandvika-Lysaker, and not least the start of the construction of Ski Station and the planning of the new double-track Ski-Kolbotn, which would not have been possible with the Progress Party's alternative budget. I also want to benefit from a little bit of nutrition research. For nutrition research into the Ministry of Industry and Trade, it is proposed to cover DKK 1.76 billion. That's an increase of about 170 million. kr, or 10,6 pst. in relation to the 2006 budget. Among the key initiatives in space, the Gassmaks programme, user-driven research and maritime research. Government is investing in the maritime sector. In order to secure jobs, the net pay system for seafarers will be expanded from 1 July this year and net pay arrangements for Hurtigruta will be in place. Innovation Norway is the main instrument of industrial policy for the Government. In the 2007 state budget, we are continuing the strong commitment to Innovation Norway. The government is proposing to allocate 200 million. kr for the profiling of Norway, both abroad and within its own borders. The goal is to get more tourists to holiday in Norway. The investment in tourism offers great potential for the creation of wealth throughout the country. This state budget is a good budget for agriculture. More bets on organic farming, pasturage, green tourism development programme and much more are very good. In addition, we reduce fees and fees under the supervision of the Food Authority. It is about securing rural settlements and better opportunities for value creation in agriculture and forestry throughout the country. This is well received in the industry, and it can be understood when you see your opposition's budget proposals. Common to the Right, Left and Progress Party is that they will cut support for the peasants. The right's budget proposal includes a proposal to cut agriculture by DKK 1.5 billion. The progress party suggests a cut of DKr 5.8 billion. The left has cut 500 million. kr in the budget, and 199 million. of which they have found in the agricultural settlement. In other words, they are certain that it is okay to breed Norwegian agriculture. In practice, the party’s proposal for progress means the closure of Norwegian agriculture as we know it. Every single year's agricultural work will lose NOK 92,000. This will also mean that only the strongest areas will be able to manage agriculture. It's easy to be adorned with resources for many good purposes when one actually shuts down Bygde-Noreg.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28-2.ana.ud716e1593	The President makes it very clear that the time for the evening meeting according to the regulations is running out, and the President will make suggestions that we continue to negotiate until we finish dealing with matters on today's map. - It's a note. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28-2.ana.ud716e1600	As in the past, the defense is one of the areas where you are freshly discussing how much money they are going to get. Some will reduce, while the Progress Party wants a defence budget that is proportionate to what the Stortinget demands the Defense to do. Unfortunately, this has not been related to each other in recent years, and there have been episodes with which neither the defence nor the governing bodies are served. To save money, equipment has been placed in all kinds of weather. Exercises are set, with the result that the soldiers may not reach their goal. We've put campers down at an incredible speed, and we've had a reorganization where one has been more concerned with achieving the numerical targets than seeing what the total result would be -- this is a great frustration for civilian and military employees alike. Military equipment has also not been replaced with today's, and large parts are equipment that bears the mark of many years of use, including: For example: the same M109G tank that I was taught in 1976. Our Hercules transport planes are more than they fly. That's how I can frame up an example by example. New vessels have been purchased and ordered. But now more people say that enough money is not available for operation and maintenance. It is not strange that employees stop or will be relocated. Last night, U.S. ambassador Benson K. Whitney had a speech that he wanted Norway to contribute more in terms of defence, and that we increased our frames to 2 pst. of gross domestic product. Today Norway is No. 14 of the NATO countries, measured in relation to gross domestic product. This I think is surprising numbers too many. We're not the best here, so we're far from the goal. If we don't increase the defence budgets considerably, I think the defense is at a crossroads. What are we going to keep and build on? Defense Chief Dien has received much criticism for his speech in Oslo Military Society a few weeks ago. But the Progress Party is pleased with this speech. We politicians will soon have to decide whether we should have a defence, how big it should be, and of what kind. What has happened in the last 10–15 years, with an increase only corresponding to the general price increase, is too poor. Norway has large resources and a large area to monitor both at land and at sea. We also need to contribute internationally, and then the Defense needs more funding. The summit in Riga now says a lot about this. For the time being, it seems that only the Progress Party is the party that is financially responsible for these interests as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28-2.ana.ud716e1621	I have read many honorary words and seen beautiful objectives – on the general research effort, on cooperation between the public and private sectors, on non-discrimination between institutions and on user-driven research that will create values by being guided by business towards the areas where the potential for value creation is greatest – in the underlying documents for today's debate. There is no lack of vision. But then we come to practice. 'What we're going to do, we're going to do,' said the Minister of Knowledge last year. Well, on the general research front, we just have to realize that there wasn't much he wanted. However, practice also fails on other aspects of this than purely appropriations. The government, with its cuts in the SkattenFUNN scheme, reveals that they do not understand the public’s role as a pre-missive provider for an active investment from the business community. In consequence, this means that the national objective has been abandoned on the research front. Gift professorship from business to universities and colleges is part of this picture. The gift professorship stimulates the exchange of ideas, experiences and interests between actors by networking and networking. Government parties reject non-discrimination between private and public universities and colleges in the case of gift professorships. The justification is the lack of State involvement in the board of private institutions and the problems of demarcation. And I thought we had something like that! It is fairly clear which institutions in Norway have accreditation from NOKUT and what requirements they must meet. In consequence, the rejection is a mistrust of the NOCUT as an accreditation body. No, this seems enough to be a search for an excuse to avoid non-discrimination and to avoid the gift professorship becoming a more effective tool for the whole sector. Norway has an ambitious objective for research – 3 pst. of GDP, and 2 pst. must come from business. Do the red-greens think this will come of itself, that it will come as a result of a warning and encouraging index finger? No, this cannot happen without the country systematically seeking incentives and schemes that actively stimulate both large and small enterprises across the country to focus on innovation and new research-based value creation. International, inter alia in the EU, you are going very strongly in that direction. All the honours of the documents notwithstanding, the rejection of Document No. 8 on gift professorship reveals an attitude that will prevent more research-based value creation in Norway. We're inside a rest section that'll set track, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28-2.ana.ud716e1634	I want to spend some time on Document No. 8:96 to take care of the interests of Norwegian citizens abroad. The case addresses issues relating to school, health, care, taxes and social security. More and more Nordics are choosing to move abroad, some for shorter periods each year, some for a year or two, while others are moving abroad permanently. The reasons for the move are multiple. Too many people are concerned with health, while others are moving in connection with work. The Progress Party has received numerous enquiries from dubious Northmen abroad. In particular, we receive enquiries from seriously ill or severely disabled people who lose their rights when they move out. They are frustrated that their choices consist of either a life in warmer strokes with improved health, but no rights, or more rights and a health that deprives them of the opportunity to use these rights. These and other emigrators have one thing in common. They're struggling to figure out the code. They believe that the legislation in place is difficult to understand. They get different answers when they turn to public offices, and several of them feel very unfair. I note that the Left, Right and Christian People's Party state that they see that there may be a need for more information in different areas and that they will come back to this in relevant contexts. With the exception of this note, all lots, except the Advance Party, stand together to see that the issues raised by the Progress Party are not considered to be a problem. As international migration increases, the number of children in need of a school offer is increasing. The Progress Party believes that it is necessary to clarify the Norwegian responsibility for providing Norwegian children abroad with an offer that provides sound schooling. According to the majority comments, the Government will come back to this spring 2007, as it will make proposals for major changes to the law on early school leave. As regards the new tax rules introduced for the 2004 income year, the Minister of Finance, in his letter of 29 September 2006, states: ‘So far there is no specific feedback from either taxpayers or equality authorities that the new rules do not work in practice.’ Furthermore, the Minister of Finance said in the same letter: ‘ persons wishing to emigrate have had clear and unambiguous rules to deal with.’;» [[...]] It also states: ‘It is also not particularly problematic that many emigrated Northmen become taxable for some time both in Norway and in the Member State of relocation.’ [[...]] I wonder about these statements. The enquiries we receive in the Progress Party clearly show the opposite. These people also say that they have complained about the legislation and system of the other political parties and the equality authorities. And to be honest, of course, it's a big problem for the individual that he has to pay taxes on his income twice. I find that the government has one out of sight, out of mind-set to a number of very important issues that several thousand Norwegians experience.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28-2.ana.ud716e1669	Earlier today, we have heard horror stories from the Chair of the Financial Committee, from the Workers' Party, about how bad it will be for most people if the budget of the Progress Party is adopted. Of course that's not right. Nor will it be right when the Workers' Party's representatives repeat false claims, with or without the Governor as a source. What is right is that in today's Norway we find several fundamental and unacceptable errors and shortcomings in the welfare system, defects and deficiencies that this government will not correct. This government obviously believes that there is inflation and higher interest rates from treating sick people. That is not the opinion of the Progress Party. The Progress Party believes that it is socially important, economically sound and economically viable to use the capacity actually available in our state hospitals, and to do so in cooperation with private hospitals and clinics, so that patients who need hospital treatment actually get it in a dignified way. Of course, today's staffing in hospitals will not be used for full operation in the departments, and for full week. It provides more patients treated instead of fewer, shorter waiting time instead of longer waiting time and a treatment offer for several important patient groups, not for fewer. This government obviously believes that there is inflation and higher interest rates from building better roads. That is not the opinion of the Progress Party. Road construction is an investment. Weighing 50 years. Installation contractors have free capacity. It has been repeated and repeated – at the latest last week. At the Government, the message is clearly received with closed ears. There you won't be disturbed by the facts. Investment in better tribal and national roads does not lead to inflation. We have free domestic construction capacity, and we can, as the Progress Party suggests, also use foreign contractors paid through a foreign budget to build better roads in Norway. We are not alone in believing that this is possible. Many rapporteurs from both the Labour Party and the Centre strongly agree with the Progress Party on this. Better roads provide better efficiency and high socio-economic returns, reduced emissions, reduced accidents and reduced transport costs. It is not enough to boast that the national transport plan is met, when it is actually not. The maintenance run on the highways is NOK 15 billion. We need $230 billion to build a good tribal road network. These problems also have to be solved. Norway is advised – a pity that the Government says an unsolvable no to this, incomprehensible that the Government can justify its refusal that more money for patient treatment and more money for road construction will destroy the Norwegian economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28-2.ana.ud716e1685	Meeting challenges and opportunities in the north is Norway's main strategic initiative in the coming years, writes the government parties in the Soria Moria Declaration. It could not have been said better, even by the Christian People's Party. But the budgetary follow-up is sadly weak, and so weak that even the government's big-time representatives on the North Norway bench admit that this is not good enough. Since the budget chapters are full speed, 274 million have been scrapped. kr that can be related to north-eastern betting. If this is the level the red-greens put on, one must be sure to say that they get just as afraid that it is just word and word again. The NRK Troms received an interim report of the entire Northern Region Strategy of the Government, to be presented in Tromsø on 1 December. I did not become more optimistic on behalf of the North by reading the 38 pages with a lot of repetition of things that were previously written. Here the Government writes that they have started a long-term, enhanced investment by increasing the allocation of 274 million North-Area-related measures. kr. A long-term, reinforced commitment must, in the view of the Christian People's Party, be something more than what is normally expected to be found in the annual budgets. In this way, high expectations are attached to the final presentation of the North Sea Strategy in Tromsø on 1 December. I assume that the government there is linking the economy to the many good actions listed under the heading: The new working day begins. The new working day must contain a clear commitment to fisheries and aquaculture. We have now lived a whole year with a fisheries policy waiting, and recently we have seen that even the fishermen of Finnmark, who were to benefit in particular from the new government's reverse operation, have lost patience, and are asking for more of the previous government's fisheries regime. Strengthening universities and higher education as well as increasing research activities must also be in place. Here we can't get away from the University of Tromsø and the other colleges in the district. It doesn't remind me of a lot of Northern Territory bets when a cutter in the allocations of these important institutions in North Norway. On Monday there was a university conference in Bodø, and in the Christian People's Party we expect Bodø to get its university when the upgrade is completed. I also think that an overall approach to research can be good. It would be exciting to develop an overall North Sea programme that takes account of the fact that oil and gas are only part of a comprehensive North Sea strategy. In this area, priority must be given to both Arctic agriculture, tourism, infrastructure and the place of defence in the region. The point in this context is that Norway will have little credibility in promoting opportunities in the north, unless we also show a clear willingness to bet nationally ourselves. Only then can we go out and get partners with us in the development of the northern regions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28-2.ana.ud716e1700	In the Soria Moria Declaration, the Government laid the foundations for an active, holistic fight against crime. The goal is to improve prevention, clarify more, react more quickly and rehabilitate better. We prevent, among other things: by the Police Council. We better prevent the municipalities from being given a historic lift, where we have given room to strengthen the school, strengthen child protection and reopen connected youth clubs. We are helping to clarify more by expanding the use of DNA analysis and by exploring more policemen. We're going to judge smarter, use more community services, and use other alternative forms of punishment, such as drugs. drug programmes and pro-mille programmes. We have not just introduced a change of course in justice policy and prevention policy. We've also created a rate change. In the last few years, there has been an unsustainable situation, a vicious circle where judgment is going on for years and waiting to come in to atonement. They are not allowed to work. They don't get housing. They don't get the chance to settle and move on in life. The reconciliation queue also does something to the people's sense of justice, especially if the convicted person makes new criminal acts while he waits to come in to atonement. Last year, the Minister of Justice promised 100 new places to settle. He broke that promise. We've delivered 250! The reconciliation queue is on its way down, but the goal is for the cows to go away. The government's collective investment in criminal matters is missing an equivalent in Norway. The scoop has been expanded with an increase of almost 50 pst. The library service is strengthened and, in particular, health and drug treatment are strengthened. 80 pst. of the increase in the justice sector goes to criminal services. In addition, the government is working with a return guarantee to put an end to one in two being reinstated in prison in five years. Reductions in payroll queues and a holistic commitment to prevention and rehabilitation also lead to increased police force. Here, too, we have increased efforts, especially against recriminalism and economic crime. The government has also viewed the search light in close relation. To experience the private and normally safe atmosphere as dangerous is a great impression. This is not acceptable to society. By bringing down the atoning cows, preventing criminals from committing new crimes while waiting for their sons, by better rehabilitation in prison, drug treatment and policing, we are reducing the power and crime of society. By changing the law and giving the courts better authority to secure the position of victims, we now see a clear change of course and a change in the pace of justice policy. We're on our way to a safer society.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28-2.ana.ud716e1715	Meeting challenges and opportunities in the north is the main strategic focus of Norway in the coming years. This is another quote from the Soria Moria statement. The Central Party believes that an overall strategy is important in the age of globalisation, where national and international developments work together and emerge some of the traditional distinction between domestic and foreign policies. Northern Region policy must therefore be a long-term and holistic policy that creates sustainable growth and development in the area. Norway has a lot to defend in the north. Therefore, increased presence is very important, as the Government also adds. The centre part will warn against a too one-sided focus on petroleum in the north. Yes, we need geological mapping. Yes, we're going to have an active allocation policy, and yes, we're definitely going to ensure ring-fence in the north, but we're also going to facilitate conditions, so that the communities in the north don't confuse, play in the industries we have, create new jobs through a better economy in the municipalities, provide good health and school services, and through massive investment in infrastructure, reduce the distance disadvantages of residents and businesses. The centre party sees a special need to strengthen the research and development environment in the north. Research in the north, in the environment in the north, will enable us to ensure the building of competences, which will be a strong factor in the success of the strategic effort. I would also like to point out the need for a responsible fisheries policy and that a number of measures to combat illegal fishing must be put in place. Furthermore, we must have a travel policy that focuses on good experiences, including: by focusing on Arctic food, cultural diversity and beautiful natural experiences. Improved infrastructure is necessary, north-south and east-west connections must be given a strong boost, both in broadband, rail, road, ports and air connections. The government has launched this promise, and it is with satisfaction that the Central Party can see that the framework of the National Transport Plan is being fulfilled for the first time. In this budget, we see the beginning of the Government's strategic commitment. That's good! But the Central Party is impatient on behalf of the North, because there is enormous need. At the same time, there is a need for a long-term policy if we are to succeed in making the northern regions Norway’s most important strategic area in the coming years – and we will succeed in that.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28-2.ana.ud716e1734	The other day, I was present at a meeting in Tromsø, where fishing boaters clung to the Fisheries Policy of the Progress Party. That's not the least weird. The fishing boats have looked firmly at their own wallets and say straight away that they feel no responsibility for life and settlement in the many fisheries-dependent communities along our coast. They're against district quotas, because they think they might lose something on it themselves. They're against universal service because they think it can reduce their own profits. They are fighting for the free movement of fish quotas, because it is for the benefit of the most capital-intensive operators in the industry, namely themselves. The fishing boats are themselves more than enough! Is it strange that they are attracted by a party that is just appealing to greed and happily sacrificing our many small and fisheries-dependent communities to the market? The fisheries policy of the Progress Party is, of course, the answer to the positions and opinions of the fishing boaters. The Progress Party believes that the liberalisation of the fisheries policy is too late. They will remove the regional policy instruments, and they will have the right of establishment in the aquaculture industry. Guess who's going to have the greatest advantage of it? In a thought-provoking chronicle, editor Ivan Kristoffersen refers to Iceland making its fisheries policy choices in the 1980s, when Iceland's own fishing resources were in sharp decline. Fishing quotas were bought by 100 families, which later became richer than ever. As a result, capital moved from the coast to the banking and financial sector and industry. In 2005, the number was 50 pst. of the total quotas held by Iceland in the hands of 10 large fishing companies. This is a fishing policy accounting paid with a number of small communities that have lost the profits of the fishing industry, writes Ivan Kristoffersen. He would like to add that this is a reflection of the fisheries policy of the Progress Party. It will hardly surprise anyone that the Progress Party cuts the fisheries budget in such a way that it weakens our fisheries policy cooperation with Russia and reduces the ability of the Fisheries Directorate to control illegal, unreported and unregistered fishing. The counterpart of this is a policy that calls for our many fisheries-dependent communities, which provide a profitable and sustainable fishing and a profitable seafood industry that has good, and, not least, predictable raw material access. The counterpart of short-term profit for some is long-term and environmentally sound value creation and a good distribution of the fish resources where the community’s ownership of the fish in the sea is ensured. The counterpart of further liberalisation and deregulation is social governance and control. The last time the fisheries population made the choice between social governance and the market was in 2005.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28-2.ana.ud716e1745	Today, representatives from the government parties have produced next year's budget as a large slide. A glossy image also has a backside, and I want to uncover a little tab of it right now. The full truth will go up for people every now and then in 2007. The small tab I want to take now, shows the government's bet on health. In Sogn and Fjordane, the maternity wards in Lærdal and North Fjorddeid must close at Christmas, during the major festivals and perhaps during the summer holidays next year. The reason for the Health Förde board is that they are obliged to save money because the Government will not give enough money to fully operate the hospitals. The truth is that Health probably does not save a penny on this saving measure – on the contrary. What could be the result of this closure is that it is exacerbating the birth statistics of these hospitals, which can be used against them in the next round, with the aim of shutting down the maternity wards. As a result, the operating basis is completely gone. The Progress Party's alternative budget proposals include: Rehabilitation of the heavy debt of healthcare professionals, which would have resulted in the birth of the Sogn and Fjordane being able to attend a safe Christmas weekend. When the government party does not want to delete this liability, it cannot be because of the inflation risk. Amounts owed to entities such as: Gardermobana has previously deleted the state, without resulting in inflation. When the Government of the State budget for 2007 does not want to erase the debt of healthcare professionals, I conclude that the Minister of Health and the Government is using the lack of permissions to remove this debt as a tool for centralising key hospital functions. The glowing commitment and election promises that the government party in general and the centre party in particular made to the day in the election campaign before the last election, I have in no way seen again in the budgets presented by the government. Had I had enough time in this debate, I could have stood here and taken the field for myself and shown the same faded back of the glamour of the Government's budget proposal. But when we come to the budget setting from the Municipal and Administrative Committee, I get the opportunity to re-take several aspects of this matter. Then I would like to discover the back of the gloss picture The government has tried to paint the bet on the municipality of Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28-2.ana.ud716e1766	We all remember the riots in France for a while. If we wanted to create such a situation here in Norway, how would we have gone forward? To find the answer to that, we need to figure out the background of this situation. Many of the rebels had fallen out of the school system. They didn't have a job. They were left to take care of themselves in the suburbs. Racism over their own accident and the fact that the authorities neither saw them nor cared about them, eventually caused them to boil over to many. France led a policy of accident. This also had to be recognised by the French authorities in the end, and now they are going to bet on schools, scholarships, better housing and job training. So we now know the recipe for conflict. So it might be easier to find another way. I think there are three main steps we need to focus on in order to create a good society where everyone is involved. The first is a good public school where all go together, where children can train to live in a complex world with others. A good common school is a prerequisite for developing a cultural understanding, which will be very important in the future society. The second is a social housing policy. If we look at the population composition in Oslo, we see that the minority language proportion is increasing inversely with housing prices. Anyone who thinks this is an unfortunate development must face up to the fact that we need a social housing policy in this country. There has been a defect in Oslo as the right-hand side, which has run the city for a number of years, must bear the main responsibility for it. The third is that we have to have a policy that ensures people a job to go to, and here the government follows to those degrees up. It would be thought that everyone would learn from the mistakes of the French – but not at that time! The progress game will repeat these errors. They take money from the asylum recipients, which could help us get more people with illegal residence in the country. They take money from housing measures, which will lead to more social welfare recipients. They take money from Norwegian training – that’s incomprehensible. And they take money from all non-governmental organisations that do important work towards disadvantaged young people with immigrant backgrounds. This will lead to greater differences, higher levels of conflict and deeper gaps in our society. This is an accident policy. The Labour Party wants a different society. We want everyone to have equal opportunities to create their own future. We will contribute to this on the part of society. We want a society of tolerance, respect and humanity. While someone just focuses on duties and others just focus on rights, we have our message to everyone who wants to live in this country: Do your duty, demand your right.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28-2.ana.ud716e1781	For a knowledge nation such as Norway, it is essential to invest in learning even beyond the ordinary course of education. I therefore want to use my 3 minutes to talk about the joyful effort that the Government has made in terms of adult education and lifelong learning. The OECD has appointed Norway as world champion of lifelong learning. It's a pleasure, but it makes demands on us as a country if we want to hold this position in 15 years. This is long-term work, where targeted and systematic work needs to be done. There's over 140 million in the budget. to participate in the EU Lifelong Learning Action Programme, LLP. Here is the focus on quality in education central. LLP connectivity will stimulate professional development and internationalisation. Through the Comenius, Erasmus and Leonardo da Vinci exchange programmes, Norwegian students and students are given the opportunity to take part in education abroad, with increased competence in language and culture as a result. Both parts are important when Norwegian labour force is to be qualified for an increasingly internationally oriented working life. The Central Party therefore welcomes the Government's proposal to participate in the LLP, and looks forward to the debate on this when the proposition is presented to the Stortinget. Being the best at lifelong learning means that one succeeds in building knowledge both inside and outside the classroom. As big-time politicians, we have all been involved in a study or two. Collecting over a coffee cup and a study booklet was something like 15 pst. of Norway’s population in 2005, and despite the drastic reduction in adult education of the Bondevik II government. Much of this adult training takes place through the study associations, which are associations of recognised membership organisations. The study groups provide a low-threshold service that helps to make learning harmless, including: by providing alternative services to adults who have been out of work for longer periods. The advantage of the study federations is that they have a flexible and unbureaucratic structure. They take rapid account of changes in the need for skills and knowledge and set up courses in such a way that learning outcomes are relevant at all times to the needs of society. Courses through study associations also have a self-esteem in addition to providing increased knowledge. The courses are a unique opportunity for participants to network with other people in the same situation. This can motivate increased efforts and development for individuals and provide a sense of self-sufficiency and a sense of mastery. It's in place to pay tribute to the Government for the increase of 58 million. It is gratifying to note that lifelong learning with this budget has received the focus it deserves and is necessary for Norway to continue to be the world champion in this area in 15 years’ time.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28-2.ana.ud716e1800	We have soon left behind a long debate and a long day of word war on next year's government budget. The vast majority of the posts we've heard from the opposition have been about how miserable this budget is, and not least about how bad we have it in this country. This description of misery has been a desertless trek towards doomsday, where one would think that there were great people's migrations going on to save both life and health. Soria Moria is described by some as an adventure. Yes, what this government has done is almost like an adventure. Never before have the municipalities received greater transfers than now, and never before has a government received more applause on the shoulders of rapporteurs from civil parties around the country. Increased free revenues of a total of DKK 9.4 billion since the fall of 2005 have given the municipal sector the promise that the previous government does not have the power and the ability – free revenues that can be spent on our children, income that can be used on our young people, income that can be used on our elderly people, and income that can be used to develop good communities. For several years in a row, Norway has been identified by the United Nations as the world’s best country to live in. Despite this, a recent study showed that we are not very satisfied. It was like the cartoon that one of the nation's capital newspapers showed, by the powerful Northman who was lying on his back and was good and sat: now I am so tired that I am really annoyed. There is a great difference between making proposals in the opposition and in the position. I see that the Right has now sent out a press release on how excellent their draft budget is. Now in the opposition, the Right and the other bourgeois parties have money that they did not have when they themselves put in government. Never before has any government invested as much in health as this government. The first thing that it did was to grant 600 million. kr more for patient treatment in 2006 and a further 390 million. kr for 2007. Never before have more patients been treated in Norwegian hospitals, never before have they worked more in Norwegian health care, and never before have we spent more money in Norwegian health care. This government has also endorsed the previous government's proposal for the division of disparities – one year before the time they themselves wanted and even proposed. As of 2008, depreciation is increased from 60 pst. until 80 pst., which allows one to invest 1 billion more kroner in the Norwegian health care system. Relonged hospital projects can be realized earlier than the other government proposed. That's how I can from area to area hit up good bets for most people from this government. The description of misery we're hearing doesn't really get messed up. Through Soria Moria, we see that important welfare services are being developed and providing people with security – security to meet the future and security of work and income.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28-2.ana.ud716e1821	There is no doubt that the economic situation in Norway is in, giving us a room for action many people envy. That's something we're going to bring with us as a nation and as people in a bigger perspective, and especially those of us who've been so lucky that you've been out there and raised the last year in the direction of office and seen what challenges other people, other countries and other societies are facing. In that case, attending a budget debate in Norway with half an ear may be pointless, at least sometimes. We're going to have that perspective that there are many who are facing enormous challenges in drawing their societies out of deep poverty and moving forward. Although we're doing more in this budget than we've ever done before just to help others, we still have a long way to go, and I'm not in doubt that we could do a lot better. Having said that, I would say that the government delivers what it went to elections on, in this budget, and I think you deliver solidly, and you deliver in areas where we were partially ridiculed during the election campaign last year. You deliver on municipal economy to a degree that I think few thought was possible just a little over a year ago. We deliver on transportation. A year and a half after the transport plan was dealt with and the Right Leader of the Transport Committee said that this never happened, it is actually delivered and is the first government to honour the promises made in the National Transport Plan. You deliver on culture. It's important. Not only does this benefit the specialised cultural life, but the money is distributed throughout the country and benefits the broad, free cultural life around the city and the countryside. I also think that the economic policy has been relocated in a number of important areas through this state budget, not least through the specific effort that the Government has put in place in the forest, where the Forest Fund scheme now actively facilitates an increase in yield, a policy that the Stortinget has previously wanted, but which there is no government that has been able to implement yet. You've doubled the bet on travel life. It's one of the most important industries in District Norway, an industry that's growing rapidly. Net pay has been paid on the Hurtigruta. It is an important measure to maintain a critical infrastructure along the coast. And not least, the structural problem of fisheries has been addressed, in order to ensure that the values become where they are created.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28-2.ana.ud716e1832	Many young women who have the potential and desire to start their own business refuse because self-employment can be difficult to combine with family life and small children. This is easy to understand. It requires both courage, effort and willingness to risk starting for yourself. Women have a lot to do with business, as per I think today is masculine. It is therefore important that society organises so as to reduce the risk of being self-employed. The red-green parties acknowledge that in Norway we have a long way to go before women and men really have equal opportunities. The Soria Moria Declaration explicitly states that the Government ‘will pursue a policy that gives women and men equal opportunities and real equality’ — fine words, but what does this mean in concrete policy initiatives? In my opinion, the government has done little to facilitate relations for women entrepreneurs. This is disappointing. In the summer of 2005, the former Minister for Gender Equality of the Christian People's Party, Laila Davøy, sent several proposals on gender equality between self-employed and other workers in pregnancy, childbirth and child care. Thus, the work had come a long way when Karita Bekkemelm took over the Council of State chair. Nevertheless, the government has not done anything about the matter since the government change last autumn. In the alternative proposals of the Christian People's Party for the state budget, we are in favour of equality as early as next year of the self-employed's entitlement to sickness benefits under pregnancy, maternity benefits, maternity benefits, adoption benefits, care allowances and care and training allowances. We are impatient on behalf of the women entrepreneurs. We want their framework conditions for participation in business to be as equal as possible. In the Christian People's Party we are convinced that equality of rights in pregnancy, childbirth and child care, among other things. will contribute to more women entrepreneurs, increased value creation, increased equality and more jobs. We believe that such equality will make the situation of women entrepreneurs easier, and therefore we regret that the government parties today are voting against the proposals that could have contributed to this. The government parties have not given any concrete answers as to what they will do to get more women entrepreneurs in this country. I wonder if this is because they have not yet implemented a comprehensive industrial policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28-2.ana.ud716e1847	Our budget is gigantic, almost incomprehensible to any of us. It contains enormous amounts and covers many needs and desires all over the country. What we decide here, makes conditions easier not least in counties and municipalities, so that they can produce well-being for their inhabitants. This is prosperity for us who live here in the country, and is considered by most of us as a matter of course. Generally speaking, we're incredibly lucky. I am fully aware that wealth is not equally distributed in Norway, and we must never forget it. We still have to work intensively to make it better for those who do not have it so well in Norway. But if we take our eyes off our own navel, we're quick to realize that we're sitting on the green branch, and we have to realize that we have to divide by our enormous wealth. It's about next love. If we look beyond the world, our gaze meets people who suffer. Some suffer from a background of conflict and war, others suffer from a background of disasters, while others suffer from drought and hence hunger. And last, but not least, someone is suffering because of a combination of all of this. Only in Africa do we find disasters and conflicts that should have our attention, not least in Darfur, Sudan. There are hundreds of thousands of children, women and men screaming for help. The regimes in Khartoum will not accept help from the UN, and during this discussion people die. I used to be in New York in the fall, as a delegate to the United Nations. In Manhattan, where the UN building is located, 8 million people live. In this context, Norway becomes a small country. But when a meeting of representatives from the different programmes of the United Nations, namely UNDP, UNFPA or UNICEF, to name a few, Norway is a very large nation, a nation that clearly, concretely and with clear objectives contributes in large measure to development funds, children's funds, combating poverty, and not least to achieving the Millennium Goals. Although we're a mini-putt state, we're being listened to, and when we meet with the different programs, we're being confirmed that it's useful. At the end of my period in the United Nations, I could tell you that the government would propose to the Storting to increase the budget for aid, which was, of course, very well received. This isn't really that great. Fortunately, most of us have a tradition of thinking this way in Norway, and it should just be missing. Earlier today, many from this pulpit have said that we are in a unique situation in this country. Pension fund income is increasing, and business is doing so well that tax revenue is also increasing. If I were to stand here defending a cut in our aid to the poor in other parts of the world, I would have had a bad taste in my mouth. Luckily, I'm getting away with it. I am proud to represent the Workers' Party, which, together with the SV and the Centre Party, can propose a historic commitment to the aid budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28-2.ana.ud716e1859	The majority has determined the defence to be given to Norway. Major reorganisations from a mobilization defence to an intervention defense are well in hand. However, there is a great cloud on the political horizon with regard to our future defence and therefore our defence capacity. This is largely due to the fact that the policy objectives of defence are not met by sufficient budgets. The Progress Party's alternative budget increases the appropriations by SEK 1.53 billion to NOK 31.9 billion. Furthermore, the Progress Party proposes to spend NOK 2 billion on foreign purchases of equipment for the Defence. Defence Chief Densen's lecture in the Oslo Military Society on the challenges of defence created great political waves among the red-greens. A large gap was devoted to the Chief of Defense's talks, and there was a need for an intervention that Stoltenberg should remove the head of defence. The Progress Party gives the Defence Director full support for his lectures on the Defence Challenges. If the defence cannot achieve the objective that the Storting has previously decided, it is his duty to say from. Failure to report the reality of defence would be a service failure. Mr Densen's speech was very justified. With today's government it is easy to understand the dilemma that now prevails, with an SV who does not want to strengthen the Defence, and the Center Party, who will face great protests from their grassroots voters by laying down 10–15 bases in the whole country. Without strengthening the defence budget, the head of defence must have the freedom to lay down the bases which he deems necessary in his efforts to ensure adequate defence, a defence capable of meeting the needs of NATO both at home and in international operations. The questions about Norway to have an air defence and equip them with modern fighter aircraft create disagreement in the Government. While the Workers' Party and the Centre are looking for new flights, SV will upgrade the old F-16 planes that were ordered 34 years ago. In 1972, Norway ordered 72 F-16 aircraft without having an oil fund of NOK 2000 billion to support us. State Secretary Barth Eide has informed that the number of fighter aircrafts the government wants to buy, maybe only becomes 24, and not 48, as the Defense wants. The two defence studies coming in 2007 will guide the defence for which Stortinget will adopt the objectives. Without significant increases in future budgets, it can already be established that we have a minimum defence in Norway. The Progress Party will work to ensure that the defence budget in the next few years is so large that we can get a credible defence where all defence sectors are maintained.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28-2.ana.ud716e1876	We who live in the districts and try to run an active and modern business life can once again go a little brighter in the future. We have a government and a large majority that takes us seriously, and that facilitates the development of our jobs in a much more offensive way than before. The government is running an active district policy. We were clearly informed about this through the submitted district message ‘Heart for the whole country’, which was submitted in June. Now it's just for us at Stortinget to make real politics and thus put it into practice. I think that if we take the right political grips, again the thousand flowers bloom in District Norway. Minister of Finance Halvorsen's state budget has a device to show that we're on the right track. Here, there is a commitment to the environment, children and young people, modern and forward-looking competences, research, commerce, business and culture for all, in all parts of Norway. Fisheries policy is changing. Coastal population and small-scale fishing will again be put in the driver’s seat. The ownership of the fish in the sea belongs to the coastal population and not to the fishing industry, the sea and factory trawls or Smoke & Co. The government parties will also launch a new and modern agricultural policy, which will once again state that we are going to put the whole country into operation. Storting President Thorbjørn Jagland has taken the lead in setting up an agricultural policy commission, which will be one of several prime providers of a new agricultural policy. Among other things, SV has: the reduction of an agricultural policy sample. It will draft an agricultural policy document which will be one of several premises for the further debate in the party on the new agricultural policy of the red-green government. The Nordic regions and their unique opportunities are on the agenda. Minister of Foreign Affairs Jonas Gahr Støre has understood that this is the scope of the future, and here we must invest the great money for research, business development and the building of competences at all stages and for all those living in the north, and drive the creation of value in the private and public sectors. That's how I could go on with the point after the point that shows that we've got a red-green government that's actionable, and that wants it to live people across the country. But people don't just have to live. They must also be able to have their place of work where they live. From that point of view, it is now possible for us to operate modern, knowledge-based and forward-looking jobs throughout the country. At the same time, we are strengthening the already established jobs with good and predictable framework conditions. So don't come here and say we're not dealing with the Soria Moria statement, and we're not delivering the goods we've told us to deliver. We're doing well, but we still have three years left of this grossing-up period. If we continue to deliver the goods in the next few years, we can ask in the autumn of 2009: is there anyone who wants to replace Mrs. Halvorsen with another Minister of Finance? Let me just tip, I think the answer is getting loud and clear: we want Mrs. Halvorsen – yes, Mrs. Halvorsen wants us.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28-2.ana.ud716e1895	This article is going to be the history of broken promises. We're going back to the election campaign in 2005. The Socialist Left is struggling with the polls and the mandate of Rogaland is being postponed. On 16 August, party leader Kristin Halvorsen visited the University of Stavanger together with the party trap Langeland. The Rogalendings will hear that their newly won pride, the University of Stavanger, with government SV will not be financed as a college, but will be lifted in the elite division. Everyone knows that such a statement by a party leader will be noticed. Stavanger Aftenblad gives a smiling Kristin Halvorsen the first page the next day. She promised 40 million. kr. If this saved Langeland's mandate, it should not be said, but that it mattered, there is no doubt about it. Nothing is done in the 2006 budget. No one had expected that either. But on 13 June this year, the new Minister of Knowledge came to the University of Stavanger. Everyone knows that the government is working on the 2007 budget, so he was confronted with the statements of the Halvorsen election campaign. When will the Government deliver? The answer shocks the audience. The next day, Stavanger Aftenblad can report that the Minister of Knowledge believes that the party leader has never promised money, but only ‘would be positively set’. It was not, however, the Minister of Knowledge. On the contrary, he stated that no account should be taken of the fact that a university has become a university. Those who had been present at the meeting with the Halvorsen, did not believe what they heard. Partisan Langeland couldn't help but tell the truth. He said to Stavanger the following evening: “There is no doubt that Kristin promised UiS 40 million more.” This statement led to the Minister of Finance having to send out his State Secretary to clarify. She doesn't turn, but turns a little: «She will follow up the case and come back to it in future budgets.» The hope was again lit in Stavanger. I found, however, that it would be reasonable to get the Minister of Finance's new turn in the form of a public response to the Stortinget, and asked questions to the Minister. The answer came on June 28th. ‘It is not correct, as the question implicitly shows, that during my visit to the University of Stavanger I made numerous promises of appropriations to the UiS.’ Once again, the University's management, students, press and her own staging representative are turned into people who don't speak the truth. But hope begins at the end of the answer: «The government's ambition is to significantly increase the appropriations for research over the years to come. [[...]] Part of this increase will also benefit the University of Stavanger. [[...]] The Government will present proposals for the scope and arrangements of appropriations for research in 2007 in the State budget for the autumn.» We now know the result. The increase is cut. The Kutten have hit the University of Stavanger more strongly than other universities. This was the dream of Soria Moria seen from Rogaland.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28-2.ana.ud716e1931	In today's debate we have heard a number of great celebrations from the red-green representatives. We've heard them say that this is a budget with a clear profile, where you say no to tax havens and yes to better well-being. We also experience that the red-greens are striking their breasts and refer to increased transfers to the municipalities, and that this should ensure well-being around the whole country. But what are the realities of a number of municipalities? No increased bet on schools. Pools to be filled are still empty, and hospitalizations are shut down and laid down. We heard the Prime Minister say in the election campaign that it would not be given a single penny in tax bills until we had a shiny old age care. But today, as the Progress Party has pointed out a number of times, there is no guarantee that the increased transfers will be used to strengthen care for the elderly. Let me take an example from my own municipality of residence, Verdal, which is run by the Workers' Party and the Center Party. How have they used the increased transfers? For the current year, four institutional places have been laid down. In the 2007 budget, the same majority propose to place 11 institutional posts and close a whole hospital ward. At the same time — the same majority — priority is given to spending money on eradicating debt to one of the municipality's two cultural houses, the cultural house which has increased turnover and which has had a record turnover in the last two years. You also spend more money on the other cultural house. That's the priority in practice from the red-greens, both in this room and out in Municipality-Norway. When you get sick in Trøndelag, you need treatment and you need to go to the hospital, you get back to the waiting queue, a waiting queue that just increases and increases. Yes, one comes to a health region that then until those degrees are underfunded. Can anyone from the red-greens tell me in clear words: why is it that people from central Norway who get sick are worth less than other people who get sick and who come from other places in the country? The Progress Party put forward proposals just before the summer to correct the whole under-financing in this area. In any case, there shall be a sample running a job. I hope that that sample will come back to the Stortinge in connection with the revised national budget, so that you can go through this situation thoroughly and properly. In conclusion, let me point out that the Government today has talked a lot about combating poverty. In this regard, the Government does not mention the minimum pensioners in a single word. Why does the Government think it is entirely right that 246 000 minimum pensioners should still have income far below the poverty line? Why do they not think it is important to combat poverty among the elderly? Why is it absolutely okay to have 6 pst. of the beneficiaries of social assistance, are the same minimum pensioners? Unfortunately, only the Progress Party takes this poverty seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28-2.ana.ud716e1950	The proposal for the next year's budget and the position of the Financial Committee show that the majority who now govern the Kingdom will have value creation throughout the country. It is very gratifying for those who come from a district where traditional industries such as agriculture and industry account for a large proportion of value creation and employment. These are key areas of activity for today’s majority government. Agriculture in the state where I come from is optimistic and developmental. They are not entirely attached to the head, but are very active as food producers and experience producers. For agriculture, food production is not the only one. It is also an important player in order to develop new industries within, for example: travel life. The open cultural landscape, the farms that produce and sell farm food, and the farms that use their many buildings and are hosts for those who come to visit, represent a diversity and a creativity we may miss many other places. Many farms also open up activities such as Green Care or In-Tunet, which the measure is now called, where children from schools in the municipality can come and receive training in different disciplines. I could have mentioned more examples, but it keeps going. When I read the proposals of the Progress Party for the State Budget, I am more than amazed. What is the view of the party that it should look like in Norwegian villages – or should we say in different parts of the country – with its proposal for cuts in the agricultural agreement? With a cut in the agricultural agreement from one year to another of NOK 6.7 billion, the dramatic situation would be great for Norwegian agriculture. It would probably not just end food production on farms and in the food industry, but the settlement in much of our country would change radically. The open cultural landscape we so proudly displayed would probably only exist on images from the old days. Such a proposal has no roots in reality, and one may wonder that it is being promoted at a time when the Progress Party is taking the aim of being a government partner on the civil side in 2009. Another area of activity for the red-green coalition is, as the representative Borten Moe was also in, forestry. In my state, the forest represents the very largest export industry we have. The paper industry is the largest, but the wood industry is also responsible for important value creation. During Bondevik II the forest industry had narrow conditions, and the forest owners did not see fit to cut off the forest. Now there is new optimism in the forestry industry, and they want to contribute again with timber to Norwegian Forest and to the timber industry. When we add to the increase in transfers to municipalities, the expansion of broadband, small-scale community initiatives, the implementation of the cultural promise, etc., this is a budget that spreads optimism across the country. Youth understands that it is possible to live and work outside of our largest cities, that it is actually possible to work and live the good life anywhere if you want it, and it is facilitated for it. I think that'll benefit us all.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28-2.ana.ud716e1963	Those of us who listened to the Arild Stokkan-Grandes posts here a few minutes ago could almost get the impression that the Progress Party is responsible for the failure of integration policy in Norway. Yes, Stokkan-Grande went so far as to draw parallels between the policies of the Progress Party and the riots in France, by suggesting that our policy would end up in something like this. Of course, this is wrong, because the Progress Party has never managed Norway – unfortunately. Of course, with the policies of the Progress Party, everything would look quite different. For it is not the fault of the Advance Party that less than 30 pst. by first generation immigrants from Somalia not taking part in the labour market. It is not the fault of the Progress Party that a number of immigrant groups have a rate of crime equal to ten times that of the rest of the population. It is not the fault of the Advance Party that many immigrant groups, up to 75 pst., pick up spouses in the country of origin and thus prevent good integration. It is not the party's fault that integration policy has failed in Norway, because we have not managed. You don't have to draw parallels to the cuts that we do in the budget. That is quite right: the Progress Party is making a little less cuts on the integration side of the budget. We cut the integration grants to the municipalities by 14 pst. We cut Norwegian training by close to 10 pst. But with the policy of the Progress Party, we had also more than halved immigration to Norway. Then it goes without saying that then the need for public funding for these items had also gone much further than our cut in the alternative state budget adds up. However, the problem with integration policy is that money and too little is constantly being talked about the measures that can help people get out of work, stay away from crime and become active citizens of society and well integrated into Norwegian society. Because it is not primarily a matter of money. It is a matter of treating people fairly and fairly. Then you must also be able to make demands on them. But first of all, it is amazing that this room is repeatedly discussing integration issues and integration issues without looking at the core of the problem. It is clear that immigration policy is what creates the basis for integration policy. All the time this will not take the consequences and do anything about immigration policy, nor will we go further on the integration side.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28-2.ana.ud716e1976	Enough! A long day and evening with boasts and fairy tales from the government parties have actually gone overboard. The president set up today's meeting, but it was certainly the chairman of the finance committee who set the tone from the very beginning. In the future, «we want to see the clear lines», said Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen, and painted everything but the government's own policy. Both Councils and representatives have followed up. ‘The profile is very clear’, says the Minister for Industry. I don't want either the government's clear lines or the profile, rather the opposite. Both the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre Party glorify the facts. In fact, municipalities are getting more resources, and it appreciates the right. However, the parties do not mention that the free revenues are largely bound up by all the promises to be fulfilled and by any measures to be taken by the Soria Moria Declaration. There won't be much free income from this. In addition, it is remarkable that very much of the increased municipal income comes from increased tax receipts, such as: This is because the Right in Government led a responsible economic policy, with tax relief and incentives for business as a carrier. This has led to increased tax revenue in large amounts. Lower taxes stimulate increased activity. There will be more taxes for municipalities and more money for well-being. That's good right-wing policy. The allergy of the government parties to everything that tastes of competition is directly prejudicial to our country. All experiences suggest that competition is healthy and stimulates. There is both passivating and poor use of resources when everything is to be done on a public basis. It seems pointless when the government stops a successful project where the prisoner transport in five counties was partially outsourced to a separate company. The same applies to the OPS projects, which would accelerate important and long-distance road construction. It's incomprehensible that the government can put its foot down for this. The government's lack of investment in education and research has led to a lack of a critical voice to rise. Research has both a long-term and a short-term perspective. It's very important to take care of both perspectives. If we give appropriations today, we give appropriations for the future. It is tragic and a very bad signal when the government instead of betting introduces a rest cutting. When the Right was in government, we invested in research and innovation. And we're still going to do that. In doing so, we will ensure that investments continue and that exports are still high. This is important, because the creation in our country is a prerequisite for our entire well-being. And it is very important that we both develop and maintain it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28-2.ana.ud716e1994	As a representative of the Workers' Party, it has been exciting to see if the Progress Party in its alternative budget was able to find a way to cover what they themselves have previously proposed. In ours, the Progress Party proposed to correct all the imbalances in the economy of health regions. The cost was estimated at approximately NOK 3 billion. In its own alternative budget, the Advance Party is adding only 50 million. NOK to this. The Progress Party has proposed to cancel the debts of toll companies. The cost is between 10 and 13 billion dollars. In the budget, the Progress Party does not add money. The Progress Party has also proposed spending around 10 billion kroner on the maintenance of county roads. In the budget, they are proposing 200 million. NOK to a gravel road package. The representatives of the Progress Party and the same representatives' proposals for alternative state budgets are two different worlds. How will voters be able to trust that the Progress Party will follow up its own proposals in the future? The answer is: The voters cannot trust it. The government's draft budget shows a different direction. We keep the promise to bet on well-being over tax laws. In the 2007 government budget, the Government strengthens school and elderly care efforts through a historic boost for the municipal economy. Both hospitals and assistance are strengthened by DKK 2.2 billion each, and we are strengthening transport by DKK 2.1 billion. In addition, the Government increases its efforts on culture and justice and introduces free teaching materials in higher education. The Progress Party rhetorically says that they will bet on both well-being and tax relief. That is what they do with an economic policy that would give thousands of mortgage borrowers payment problems and lead employees in the competitive industry to unemployment. But despite the homeless use of money, we see how the Advance Party prioritises. When they propose to spend 25 billion kroner on tax bills and e.g. Only NOK 1.3 billion to the hospital, we see that one is much more important than the other. How can the voters know that the Progress Party will give priority to health in any negotiations with other parties? The answer is, the voters can't know. In the government’s draft budget, assistance is stepped up and increased by over 2 billion kroner. This is a commitment that contributes to poverty reduction, to development and growth, a commitment that saves lives. In the draft budget of the Progress Party, more than DKK 10 billion are cut off from aid to the poorest in the world, because they believe the aid does not work. Poverty is brutal, and many need more help. That is not an argument that the aid does not work, but for us to give more. This is precisely why we are increasing assistance to reach more people, not least in Africa. It's funny if the Progress Party believes that less assistance provides more help. How should the voters be able to trust that the Progress Party is engaged in development work when they do not even want a directed slowdown of assistance, but cuts halfway across from one year to the next? We know the answer: the voters can't trust it. The progress party code is to talk about the weakest, but to give priority to those who have the most.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28-2.ana.ud716e2023	The member of the Finance Committee, Christian Tybring-Gjedde, has today shared his analysis of the Norwegian welfare state with us. It is, like a lot of other things from the Progress Party, not striking, just like the Progress Party's proposal to solve the problem of car queues in and out of Oslo is that we have to remove the support for the NSB, so that local genes must have been shut down. Therefore, it is of course completely wrong when Tybring-Gjedde also claims that the Norwegian and therefore the Nordic welfare model is not sought after. Of course, everything is not quite perfect, but it has been shown in recent research and through international reports that it is the Nordic systems that have proven the best in the globalised economy. The World Economic Forum, which cannot be said to be a local division in the Norwegian Labour Party, has produced a report showing that Sweden, Finland, Denmark, Iceland and Norway are all top ten countries in the world with the highest competitiveness. In the presentation of the report in September 2005, Forum Chief Inspector Augusto Lopez-Claros said that the Nordic countries share a number of characteristics that make them extremely competitive. Through our welfare model and our welfare state, we have created a foundation that creates safe, innovative and self-confident individuals. It's sad that Tybring-Gjedde has not come to realize that the Nordic model is one of the hottest things discussed in Europe and in the rest of the world. Maybe he should follow the President-in-Office's advice to travel more to learn, and not just cook together his own theories without root in reality. The welfare state is not perfect. That's why, as Schjøtt-Pedersen has said here today, we have put forward a budget to make it even better. We do as Schjøtt-Pedersen says, Norway changes step by step. We're making Norway better!
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28-2.ana.ud716e2038	I was almost in doubt if I should take the floor, for I felt a little committed to a revival meeting. Now, almost all of the Workers' Party's big crowd have been up in the pulpit and explained to us what the fateful country we have come to one year after the red-green parties have occupied the government offices. From the coarsest black paint we have now experienced a pinkish paint. I think that the government parties would be faced with a somewhat more sober presentation of both what results have been achieved, and not least of what challenges Norway and the Norwegian economy face. The previous speakers referred to a report from the World Economic Forum. When you quote from reports, you should have read it all. Then you should also see what they write about the need to invest in higher education and research. We have a government that downgrades higher education and research. There has also been another report today, which I am a little surprised that the Minister of Finance did not take the opportunity to refer to, namely the OECD's assessment of the Norwegian economy. What does the OECD write about the Norwegian economy? Well, until next year, they're downgrading growth estimates – from 3.7 pst. in years to 3 pst. Next year. They point out that Norway is now getting an overheated economy with bottlenecks, with a high risk of wage growth, that there is a need for a tighter fiscal regime, and that there is a need for reforms to increase labour supply. When I pull this in at the end of the debate, it's because these are issues that the government is going to deal with in 2007. That means that the fiscal debate we have had today, where everything is only pink, is going to look a little different when we get into 2007. We will experience rising interest rates, a continuing shortage of labour and pressure on wages – with the consequences it can have. Finally, let me say that many speakers have spent a lot of time describing the differences between the Right and the Advance Party. I have no need either to explain or to explain the differences in economic policy between the Right and the Advance Party, because they are there. Let me just remind you that in 2002 both the Central Party and the Left Party were against monetary policy. The centre party was also against the rule of action. Both the Central Party and the Left Party took a safer path towards the 2005 elections. And to the extent that I'm going to give a kind advice to the Progress Party at the end of this debate, it might be that you followed that example.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28-2.ana.ud716e2050	It was the representative Amundsen from the Progress Party who made me take the floor, because I felt that he could not complete his list. It is not the fault of the Progress Party that the cassette fee was removed – it is probably the CD's fault either. Nor is it the fault of the Progress Party that there is pit bull ban in Norway. It is not the fault of the Progress Party that we do not have public brothels. It is not the fault of the Advance Party that the northerners come into the Stortinget in a ratio that makes it more of them than it should be in the opinion of the Advance Party. It is not the fault of the Advance Party that single mothers have an auxiliary device. It is not the fault of the Progress Party that employees have a national organisation to ensure their pay terms. It is not the fault of the Progress Party that the Government is following up the National Transport Plan in the road sector. It is not the fault of the Progress Party that we have a welfare society. Nor is it the fault of the Progress Party that we at all have an integration policy in Norway. However, through the election of the Progress Party and the vote of confidence in the Stortinget to the previous government, the Progress Party has responsibility for closed local hospitals, the closure of schools, cuts in the care of the elderly, poorer roads, cut back on them for rehabilitation, cut off the unemployed and the disabled, and more expensive and higher percentages for pensioners. That is the reality, and I am fantastically pleased that the people, the majority in Norway, are in that reality and not in the Dream World of the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28-2.ana.ud716e2061	To the extent that the representative Jan Tore Sanner would be in doubt if he was at a wake-up meeting or not, I expect that this doubt has been removed after the comments of the representative Klungland. [[Laughter]] And if it's a wake-up meeting first, of course, I think it's natural to give a never so little witness at the end of this debate. There is no doubt that the government parties have really sunk in the glory of their own budget and its excellence. Yes, sir. Klungland probably ended earlier today's post with a hallelujah, as far as I remember. At the same time, it is in stark contrast to the performances we have received in the last few days, where the Central Party's fiscal spokesman would like to regulate Telenor back to the old Telecom. It is also possible that the price of the counter-skrits should be determined here in the house for the future. Today, the Central Party has also re-examined the debate on limiting the right to interest rebates – and must be shot down by various speakers from the Workers' Party. So these three parties are talking about cracks in the opposition's alternate budgets! Yes, then it must be because you have an enormous need to avoid having a debate on the gap that is becoming increasingly apparent within the government parties themselves. Finally, I think it is a short cut, unfortunately, among the representatives of the government parties when it comes to tax relief. We now have NOK 12 billion more at our disposal than the previous government parties would have had if they had been allowed to continue. It's been a review melody. But the point is that if we're going to look at tax policy in such a way that it's percentages and, what to say, levels of tax that are crucial, then we're going to go completely wrong. It must be crucial whether we have an economic policy that generates tax revenue. And if tax credits in a given situation, not least for business, generate tax revenue in the long term, then I also expect that there is a policy that the government parties should look at.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28-2.ana.ud716e2072	It has been an interesting experience to have had the pleasure of following the debate largely throughout the day. We have heard repeated contributions from the representatives of the government parties who – a great many of them – have chosen to affect the alternative state budget of the Progress Party. It is very gratifying that one actually chooses to focus on a competitor's political and economic policies rather than presenting what is actually going to be adopted here this afternoon. There's more to it than that. It can either testify that it is believed that there are elements of the policy of the Progress Party that are positive, but we have not heard much about that today from these representatives. It's the way you choose from your own head to talk about what you think makes sense, based on a political rhetoric. Early in the debate, the Progress Party was strongly criticised for allegedly spending so much more money than anyone else. The progress party spends more money – which is equivalent to 3 pst. by the State budget. That's actually what we're talking about. While the majority will adopt a transfer to the oil fund of approximately NOK 390 billion for next year, the Progress Party's proposal is approx. NOK 366 billion in the transfer to the same fund. That's the differences we're talking about. But the reason why there's an important difference is, of course, that the Femskrit party sees that there are areas in society where we've actually done too little. Very many representatives of the red-green brilliance of how great Norway is. The progress party also says that there are many areas where it's good, and how many people feel that you're good. But it was actually the red-green parties who in the election campaign chose to make it a major issue to talk about combating poverty, and it has been decided by the Progress Party to follow up on concrete proposals, for example. Our proposal that the minimum pensioners should receive an increase in their next year's pension by NOK 13 000, a very concrete proposal that could lift very many people – in fact 246,000 – out of the poverty line. It would have been a concrete proposal to take the government seriously. But I find that the government is not interested in following this up here today. So we've got a lot of criticism that we're spending too much money. But at the end of the debate we get criticism that we allegedly cut so much. We heard the representative Klungland, who shoots in both directions and talks about everything we have allegedly cut off over the years. Now he almost has to decide. Is it so that the Progress Party spends too much money prioritizing these areas, or is it such that the Advance Party is the party that cuts in these areas? It would have been possible to have one direction of criticism, otherwise it would be quite hopeless. I also note that we are being blamed for a number of proposals we have not submitted. I remember what Per Sandberg said earlier in the debate, that this year is actually not over. There will also be a new aging, and the Progress Party will follow up several proposals in line with how the majority has previously also chosen to include proposals in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28-2.ana.ud716e2083	Actually, I think that the debate could have ended with the representative of Klungland’s excellent and great contributions, who finally gave credit to the Progress Party and stated that we were not responsible for everything that was wrong – despite the fact that we have not been in position at all. I could have extended that list to the representative Klungland, because I believe that the Progress Party is not responsible for people dying in a hospital queue either. Nor does the party of progress blame us for getting miserable results in our schools. Nor does the party of progress blame people for suffering on our roads, for people dying and being severely injured. I'm not going as far as to place this responsibility anywhere, I'm just stating that the Workers' Party has been running for 50–55, yes for almost 60 years, since World War II, so they must have some responsibility for the evolution we've seen. As far as northerners are concerned, I believe that the Progress Party should change its policy – we have to make sure that there are as many northerners as possible entering this Chamber. Because they've really understood that. These are the regions in which the northern countries belong, which suffer most from this government's policy. I also record this when the representative, Mr Eldegard, from Akershus, from the interlocutory chair, boasts the unhindered policy of the Government's transport policy and points out that what is difficult about this is the double track to be established. Yes, it will especially benefit throngers and northerners and people from Troms and Finnmark! Yes, everyone – the rest of the country, and especially the coastal communities – will benefit very well from the fact that this government is betting on rail, but is cutting by road. Because it's no use explaining that when you only have 500 million. kr for road maintenance, it will affect the districts. It will affect the coastal communities, it will affect the four northern states, and it is not possible for this government to turn away from. I think it's something that somehow clarifies the difference between the Government and the Advance Party – it's mentioned several times in this debate: several of the red-green parties have clearly said that they do not accept that people in this country are left to themselves. That's what this is about. The sitting government wants from end to end to end to control people, and its worst enemy is freedom of choice. Here there is a great distinction between the Advance Party and the Government. We still have faith that people themselves can take responsibility for their own lives and manage their own needs – much more so than the Minister of Finance Kristin Halvorsen has.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28-2.ana.ud716e2092	I also responded to the representative Sanner's description of the government parties' debates. He used the term ‘fucking meeting’, ‘foreign country’, ‘rose-red paint’, etc. I grew up in Namdalen. There we don't have much of that, but I think that description is wrong. It does not cover what the government parties have voted in favour of and have said in this debate. When Sanner characterizes the government parties, I want to ask, what did he start with himself? Well, in his speech he said that everything that was good in this society, everything that went well in this country now, was the former government's profit. It's a way of describing the reality that might be a little bit signified. It is likely that the development of the economy in this country is a consequence of the efforts of different governments — including the work of this government. I think one has to be a little bit more sober in the descriptions of each other in this room. I think that'll pay off for everyone. The OECD and the notifications made by the OECD in the Norwegian economy have been mentioned. One could then rhetorically also ask the representative Sanner: when, as he said in the beginning, the responsibility of the previous government was so good, is it then, when things are going so well that there is so much overheating, the government parties who are suddenly responsible for this – or is it such that the previous government is also responsible for part of this policy? I think what goes on in the arguments in the different articles and in the different contexts must hang together. Furthermore, it has been mentioned that the Centre Party has changed its view on the rule of action. It's completely wrong. We've stuck to the rule of action all along. Just like the right, we've had different interpretations of the rule of action. In the last government period, the government – as far as I know – used approx. 150 billion more than the rule of action suggests. And it was under a Finance Minister from the Right. Here, too, the interpretation has, in a sense, been imprinted by the eyes that see. My starting point is that it pays to tell the story correctly. It pays off for today's government, and it pays off not least for the previous government parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28-2.ana.ud716e2107	I can start by saying that it was good to hear in the previous article a witty trouser that called for soberness and perhaps a slightly more nuanced view than what I think has emerged in this debate – not least from the government side. I think in many ways it has been an eloquent debate. There has been a debate that has just lacked many of the shades that both the opposition and the position might have had in terms of the difficult tasks we face, in a year when we may be at the top of a high economic cycle and most should have been concerned about how to land such a high economic climate in a way that does not give us too much shock experiences in the economy. As I have stated in my article – and as others from the Left have stated in articles earlier today – I think we should look more nuanced at each other's policies, so to speak. I have today commended the Government for important areas such as: assistance, but of course I have also given rice where we believe it is necessary. I think a bit of this has been missing from the government team – you have been quite obstinate and not always completely honest about what the previous government has done, and what the sitting government has done. What I have to say is I'm worried about, is how sloppy many from the government side have dared to comment on how correctly this budget has been dosed, and how well it will go in every way. We're going to sit together in this room for the next three years, we're going to remember these debates, we're going to read the minutes, and we're going to confront each other with what's happened. Then maybe one should have been a bit more sober and nuanced, as the representative Breck pointed out at the end of the debate. It's an interest rate uncertainty. The interest rate is going to rise – I would almost say it would have done no matter what government we have, because of international relations. I don't deny that. I'm worried that the sitting government is now making a strange self when it comes to this interest rate. This will certainly give us the opportunity to discuss many times during the next year – and the next years. There should have been more of them, I think. We will probably have a special debate on the Central Party's contribution to today's debate on creating uncertainty as to whether there should be interest rebates or not. Then there is the question of the struggle for labour, which is so obvious in the Norwegian economy today. Nothing is harder to drive towards the centralisation and relocation of businesses — and perhaps even a curious increase in interest rates, change in krone rates and other changes in the Norwegian community that many do not want. More should have been more humiliating to that challenge. I have not heard that either in the debate. Finally, I would like to say that everyone who has read the vote sees that the previous government parties could easily have reached one alternative budget. What is to be expected is where the Progress Party intends to take its place in economic policy in the coming years. It could be a pretty crucial question.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28-2.ana.ud716e2126	Jan Tore Sanner has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 60 seconds – not 61.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28-2.ana.ud716e2129	I must first say that I am pleased that Lars Peder Breck calls for caution and soberness in the debate. Let me then just refer to the financial situation for 2002–2003, page 205, where the member of the Central Party actually states that the rule of action on the use of oil money will be changed. In other words, it's true what I said, the Central Party was against the rule of action as it was designed at the beginning of the previous period. I noticed that the Center Party adjusted during that period, and I hope that others will do so during this period. Finally, let me join Lars Sponheim, who pointed to the similarity between the budget lines of the three bourgeois parties, which have very many common points. I would also like to stress that we would not have major problems agreeing on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28-2.ana.ud716e2136	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 1-5, and the debate is closed. [[See pages 721, 727, 759 and 760]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28-2.ana.ud716e2144	We then go to voting in the cases on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28-2.ana.ud716e2152	The President proposes that the statement by the Minister of Finance at the Stockholm meeting on 6 October 2006 on the 2007 State and National Budget be annexed to the minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28-2.ana.ud716e2162	Case No. 2 concerns the budgetary position S I. A total of 29 proposals have been put forward for this matter. It's proposal No 1, by Ulf Leirstein on behalf of the Advancement Party, Right and Christian People's Party proposal No. 2, by Ulf Leirstein on behalf of the Party of Advancement, Right and Left motions Nos. 3-22, by Ulf Leirstein on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities 23 and 24, by Jan Tore Sanner, on behalf of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, No. 25, from Hans Olav Syversen on behalf of the Christian People's Party proposals No. 26-29, by Lars Sponheim on behalf of Left First of all, there is the vote on the motions for resolutions. 26-29, from the left.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28-2.ana.ud716e2444	There is a vote on proposal No. 25, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Aramme decisionsFor the treatment of the 2007 State budget by the Stortinget, the following framework for the allocation is laid down in accordance with the breakdown into framework areas adopted by the Stortinget on 19 October 2006 and supplemented on 14 November 2006: No.NameCroner1State administration 11 566 898 0002Family and consumer 50 225 212 0003Culture 4 707 075 0004Foreign affairs 24 685 017 0005Justice 13 188 636 0006Inmigration, regional development and housing 9 762 763 0007Day money, etc. 7 104 500 0008Defence 30 120 506 0009Industry 3 286 519 00010Fischery 490 745 00011Agriculture 12 668 681 00012Oil and energy -121 856 521 00013Environment 2 816 486 00014Constitutional institutions 1 356 097 00015Work and social 225 251 010 00016Health 106 621 053 00017Church, education and research 37 951 639 00018Company 23 216 284 00019Room grants etc. to the local government sector 57 683 305 00020Future expenditure and revenue 9 287 501 00021Export guarantees etc. -688 800 00022Financial administration, etc. 24 139 296 00023Taxes and levies -817 507 92500024 Dividends etc. -27 053 752 000Total before loan transactions and transfers to and from central government pension funds - Rest of the world -310 977 775 000 The government is asking the government to make proposals for an increase in the GIEK U-land scheme of 2.1 billion. $3 billion. krona in connection with the Revised National Budget for 2007.C Stortinget asks the Government to increase the investment framework of the interest compensation scheme for church buildings by 500 million. $1.5 billion. DStortinget asks the Government to return to Stortinget, at the latest in the Revised National Budget for 2007, with a concrete and binding progress plan for inner Salten/Fauske prison, in particular with regard to the preparation of land.’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28-2.ana.ud716e2667	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 23 and 24, from the right.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28-2.ana.ud716e2942	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 3–22, from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28-2.ana.ud716e3336	There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Advancement Party, Right and Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that the system for the purchase of health and rehabilitation services is added to the Staff Regulations of Employment and Welfare. It is assumed that the free capacity of private institutions is used in the use of the scheme.»
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28-2.ana.ud716e3351	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Party of Advancement, from the Right Party, and from the Christian Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government, at the latest, in the context of the 2008 State Budget, to present a case on the financial distribution between health businesses in order to ensure a more equivalent treatment offer across the country.’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28-2.ana.ud716e3366	The vote will be taken at the next voting time on the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28-2.ana.ud716e3568	The President assumes that the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28-2.ana.ud716e3600	The case concerns the Budget setting S 1. For this matter, a total of 31 proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1, 5, 9, 13, 20-22 and 29, by Ulf Leirstein, on behalf of the Party for Progress, No. 2, 6, 10, 14 and 30, by Jan Tore Sanner, on behalf of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, No. 3, 7, 11, 15, 25, 26 and 31, by Hans Olav Syversen on behalf of the Christian People's Party proposals No. 4, 8, 12, 16, 27 and 28, by Lars Sponheim on behalf of the Left. 17-19, by Ulf Leirstein on behalf of the Progressive Party and the Right-wing Proposals No. 23 and 24, from Jan Tore Sanner on behalf of the Right and the Left In the case of further voting, the President will refer to Section 19 of the Rules of Procedure of the Storting. It appears that once decisions have been taken on the financial envelope for the 24 framework areas into which the budget is divided, the amounts adopted may not be waived in the further examination of the framework areas. Such a decision was taken in the previous case, and as a result, some of the proposed minority proposals that are now available will not be put to the vote and will therefore lapse, because they are based on different framework amounts than those adopted. It concerns the proposals Nos. 1–16 in the position currently to be voted on, concerning the framework areas 19, 20, 23 and 24 and proposals Nos. 29, 30 and 31, respectively, as corrective proposals for points One, two, three. Proposals Nos. 17–28 are independent of the framework, so these will be over. The President will then first address voting on the framework-independent minority proposals. There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 27 and 28 from the left.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28-2.ana.ud716e3653	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 25 and 26, from the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28-2.ana.ud716e3677	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 23 and 24, from the right and left.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28-2.ana.ud716e3701	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 20–22, from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28-2.ana.ud716e3731	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 17-19, from the Party of Advancement and the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28-2.ana.ud716e3771	We're going to vote on the proposal for a decision in the vote, and we're going to start with the framework area 19. There are four minority proposals for this area. That is proposal No. 1, by the Progress Party, with corrective proposal No. No 29, proposal No. 2, from the Right, with corrective proposal No 30, No 3, from the Christian People's Party with corrective proposal No. 31) and proposal No. Four, from the left. As the President has explained, these proposals lapse in line with the provisions of paragraph 19 of the Storting Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28-2.ana.ud716e3962	The President assumes that the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28-2.ana.ud716e3974	There are also four minority proposals for Framework 20. That is proposal No. 5th motion for a resolution by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 6 by Right, proposal No. 7, from the Christian People's Party, and proposal No. 8, from the Left – all of which are now falling away.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28-2.ana.ud716e4095	The President also assumes here that the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28-2.ana.ud716e4107	We have now reached Framework Area 23, and it is under this area that the Stortinget will adopt the tax and tax rules and their revenue for next year. Box area 23 is extensive, so we're going to have to add up over this. For Framework Area 23, minority proposals are available. 9 from the Party of Progress, No. 10, from Right, No. 11, from the Christian People's Party, and no. 12 from the left. These proposals are also obsolete.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28-2.ana.ud716e9955	The President also assumes here that the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left want to vote against. The President is excited if the vote results are the same all the time.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28-2.ana.ud716e9967	Then there is still to be a vote over the frame area 24. There are also minority proposals here, and that is proposal No. 13) by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules These proposals are obsolete.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28-2.ana.ud716e10363	The President also assumes here that the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28-2.ana.ud716e10379	During the debate, Ulf Leirstein has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to provide tax equal treatment for the establishment of grant professorships in higher education institutions, provided that the institution concerned is accredited by NOKUT [[National body for quality in education]] This proposal will be replaced by the Committee's vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28-2.ana.ud716e10405	During the debate, Mrs Leirstein put forward three proposals on behalf of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-28-2.ana.ud716e10693	Does anyone require the word under § 37a of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
