ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-16-lower.ana.ud244e48	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the Odel Sting today – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Åsa Elvik. – Other proposals are not available, and Åsa Elvik is unanimously elected president of Odelstinget’s meeting today.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-16-lower.ana.ud244e69	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of reply be given after speeches by main speakers and five lines of reply after submissions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-16-lower.ana.ud244e78	Today’s handling of supplements in the Working Environment Act will strengthen alert protection. Investment in the legal security of alerts benefits both the labour and society. Employees reporting critical issues at work are our main source of the fight against corruption, environmental crime, care failure in our institutions or patient treatment in contravention of ethical standards. Changes in the Labour Environment Act came into force on 1 January of this year, with the exception of Sections 2 to 4 on the protection of alerts. Through the treatment of Ot.prp. No 84 for 2005-2006 and the proposals for new legal paragraphs in the Working Environment Act follow up the Stortingen's assumptions when the new Constitutional Act § 100 on freedom of expression was adopted in 2004. An overall committee shares the Government's view that the new Constitution § 100 strengthens the freedom of expression of employees, and considers that there is no or no need to include wording in the Working Environment Act that regulates the opinions of employees in general. Political and professional opinions which are not regarded as warnings shall continue to be regulated by the constitutional protection of freedom of expression. Paragraph 100 of the Constitution requires private, municipal and state employers to be able to express themselves freely on their own behalf about matters affecting their activities. In its comments on the Government’s emphasis on the fact that the purpose of the proposed amendments to the Working Environment Act is to signal that alerts are both lawful and desirable. Warning of critical issues means not only criminal matters but also the failure of other legal orders or prohibitions, breach of the ethical guidelines of activities and general ethical standards to which there is broad support in society. There is a broad consensus that alert protection should be strengthened, but there are different views on how best to do so. The terms ‘loyal’, ‘responsible’ and ‘responsible’ have become central to the debate. In 2005, the bulk of the population rejected the proposal for a warning clause promoted by Bondevik II in line with the stoppage of the Labour Law Committee. The majority removed the assumption that alerts should be made in a loyal manner. All the parties now support this and share the view that the requirement to act can be understood as meaning that the consideration of the interests of the employer counts more than the consideration of the victims of the critical circumstances on which it is notified. The Government's proposal for a warning paragraph now states: ‘The worker’s warning procedure shall be sound.’ The majority support this, but have comments that clarify the differences between loyal alerts and sound alerts. We say that when assessing the soundness of alerts, the consideration of the environment and safety of activities, the consideration of users/recipients of business services and the interests of society must be given greater importance than the interests of business. This proposal received broad support from workers’ organisations during the consultation process carried out by the Committee. I see that there are some comments on the new bill – last from Eva Joly today: One is afraid ‘responsible warning’ will be given almost the same meaning as ‘loyal warning’. So the majority has made it clear that this is not the case. The minority promotes a legislative proposal in which ‘responsible’ is replaced by a list of reasons to be taken into account by the alerts. I'm afraid the long list can create ambiguity more than clarity for those who consider whether alerting critical situations is something they venture to. Formulaions such as that alerts cannot be ‘injurious’ and that employee ‘not unlawful’ must ‘disclose business secrets’ or business ‘competitive’ issues create ambiguity and give signals of very careful consideration to the risk of alerting. Furthermore, the wording places such emphasis on the internal interests of the business as to limit the effectiveness of the right of alert. In the hearing carried out by the Committee, we also noted that the employers' side considered the legal clauses which give the employer the full burden of proof that alerts have occurred in breach of the legal provisions and that reprisals against workers who alert are too restrictive. However, an overall committee supports these proposals and sees them as necessary measures to ensure that alerting to critical issues can take place within the safest possible framework. According to new sections 3 to 6 of the Working Environment Act, employers are obliged to facilitate alerting. Work supervision will have an important role to play in assisting enterprises in this, through the design of written guidance, information activities and the enforcement of the law in enterprises. I am pleased that, through the Municipal Report, the municipalities are given an account of how the information work can be done. I also register that the Municipality of Oslo is already setting up its own emergency telephone. You're already starting to live up to the intentions of the new legislative proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-16-lower.ana.ud244e109	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-16-lower.ana.ud244e112	As the rapporteur said, Joly has been very critical in the Kommunal Report – what came out today – for this with sound warning. She goes so far that she actually ‘calls on the municipalities to take the law as a minimum standard, and to facilitate warning itself’. It is, as I see it, very worrying, because in fact, it is very often the municipalities that launch sanctions against employees when they warn of irregularities, perhaps especially in the care of the elderly. Isn't it a problem for the government parties when a personality like Joly goes out and so strongly warns against this?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-16-lower.ana.ud244e117	It is not a problem for the government parties if Eva Joly is mistaken that ‘responsible alert’ is not the same as ‘loyal alert’. I have recorded in the debate on the new work environment law that the concept of'responsible warning', which is contained in the new legal paragraph, has been intimately linked to the previous legal paragraph that Stortinget rejected last year. I would ask you to remember the debate surrounding this in the consultation round, where it was said by all the employee organisations that the minority proposed, that is, the listing of proposals proposed by the minority, will create uncertainty and uncertainty for alerts who consider whether they are willing to submit to it. We have therefore placed great emphasis on the inclusion of the concept of ‘responsibility’ in such a way that it cannot be linked to the previous concept of ‘loyal alert’. I'm sure that's a better option than the minority add up in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-16-lower.ana.ud244e124	I understand that the case rapporteur is running the water as best he can, and is paddling at a high pace. The problem is that when the distance from what you said and did a very short time ago, which is a little over a year ago, becomes so big in this case, it becomes quite striking. The rapporteur now makes a significant effort to defend the word ‘responsible’ and why it has suddenly entered into the case. Then I refer to the comments of the majority, because they obviously don't feel quite sure that this concept of'responsible' is as good as they are now. The comments state: ‘The majority support the Government’s proposal to legislate on a requirement that the employee’s warning procedure be sound,’ – and so on – ‘but would at the same time stress that a law-making of the concept: [[...]] Then there comes a long tiger with different reservations related to ‘responsible’. You're obviously not as sure about this term as you are, but you have to elaborate on it and explain and explain what you really mean.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-16-lower.ana.ud244e136	As regards the history and treatment of the alert case, fortunately, the minority here have left the entire platform they had when we dealt with the matter one year ago, by deleting the term “loyal warning”. They now believe, together with the majority, that there is a bad concept of expressing the basis for the alert. So we agree on that. We adopted it last year. When we enter the concept of soundness, it is not to put aside the argument that lies in the proposition of odelstation, but it is to clarify it further, because ‘responsible’ is a general concept. One therefore needs to describe the direction in which it is meant to be understood. We stress that it is not the main interests of the business in this context, but the health, the environment, security, users/recipients of the business and the interests of society. I think that is a safe and good way to create alert protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-16-lower.ana.ud244e143	I noticed that the representative Sundsbø referred to Eva Joly, who must well be regarded as one of the world's foremost representatives and lawyers in just the pursuit of corruption, and that she has said that there is nothing clearer about a user's word «responsible» instead of «loyal». A professor of labour law has also underlined that. Then I wonder, what kind of legal competence does the representative of the Central Party support in this context?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-16-lower.ana.ud244e150	There is, of course, solid legal competence behind the legal process we are now dealing with. The Committee as such does not possess sound legal competence – at least not this member. However, it must be allowed to record, even record with interest, that all employee organisations participating in the hearing we were together considered that the concept of ‘responsible’, from their perspective – from the workers’ point of view – provided a better framework for the restrictions to be contained in alert protection than the list of minors, which are unilaterally linked to the interests of the enterprise. I think it is a pity that the minority has not gone into the discussion and arguments of the employees there, but completely disregards it in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-16-lower.ana.ud244e155	I hear that some people are trotting the water here. I cannot fully understand what is being pointed out, with my best will, that this is being framed by the expression ‘responsible’. In a note, the majority expresses: ‘The majority will recall that the assessment of soundness takes place retrospectively, while the alert must take the risk in the present time’.» Does the representative Sundsbø not see that this framework will not provide security for the alert? One does exactly the opposite, one creates an uncertainty because it's unclear. We – the minority – have promoted something that is much clearer and with a clearer frame. For the framework to which the representative, Sundsbø, refers, there are no health criteria to which he refers.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-16-lower.ana.ud244e168	Just the fact that the alert is being notified in the present time, while the assessment of whether it is sound, or whether it is in accordance with the law, takes place afterwards, makes me understand those who respond to the listing the minority allows. We agree that there should be certain frameworks. But I understand that there is a great deal of uncertainty about whether the warning can't be done for harm's sake, whether employees don't have to unfairly disclose business secrets and business relationships of competitive importance – it gives signals and creates confusion that makes it very difficult to know how to proceed. «Injury» and «injustice» are no longer concepts of being very sure that you do not overstep, when you dare to alert. So I'm surprised that we're talking here about the majority of people pulling the water, when we're actually pretty sure we're on a safe footing, and that we also have the employees of the country's businesses behind us in that we're on a safe footing.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-16-lower.ana.ud244e183	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-16-lower.ana.ud244e186	Today's changes to the Working Environment Act strengthen the freedom of expression of workers, by unequivocally stating that the employee has the right to inform about critical conditions in the company. It gives the alerts a very good protection against reprisals, by unequivocally stating that retaliation against the alerts is prohibited and that retaliation may result in claims and the right of redress. The changes will create a culture of warning, by requiring the employer to facilitate alerting. The bill is much better than today's law, because any doubt as to whether internal alerts are protected will be removed, and we will be given precise protection against reprisals through new legal texts. We have thus fulfilled the point of the Soria Moria declaration that the warning protection should be strengthened. In its observations, the opposition claims that the wording of the second paragraph of Section 2-4, proposed, that the warning procedure should be sound, contributes to turning the focus from the business relationship to the alert procedure. We also see in the line exchange here today that this is the theme the opposition is running on. In the balance between making demands on the alert procedure and not having any restrictions at all, we have fallen down on the requirement, and we have fallen down on a cautious wording aimed at the alert having a conscious relationship with the choice of procedure, as the rapporteur also stated well. We state that there are no strict requirements for the employee in this respect. But it's not about whether we're going to have limitations or not, the opposition and the government parties are separating layers. It's in the choice of formulations on the constraints we separate layers. It brings me to the opposition's suggestion. It has been decided to limit alert protection to public alerts. The reasons for the alerts are required, and restrictions are imposed so as not to notify the essential business secrets or business relationships. In the comments, the opposition goes even further and underlines even that alerting to facts that are critical is not protected only by the ethical conviction of the alerter. Here, then, the alert itself has to think about whether you have good wishes for the warning, that you don't tell the company that you want to keep a secret – I don't think it's just that you waste to the areas around the company with hazardous waste, or with waste, for that matter, this is something you want to keep a secret – and whether there are many others who think that what you want to warn about is wrong. These are things that the warner should then sit and think about. The vast majority of notifications in Norwegian working life are made internally by enterprises. There are alerts to trust-elected, protective agents or management at different levels. And it's of enormous importance that these warnings benefit from the protection that we want to give. The government's proposal does, while the opposition's proposal doesn't. Their proposal for Section 2-4 explicitly states that the right to alert and protection for the alert relates to public warning. It seems that the opposition has ignored the importance of warning protection when it is being notified internally, despite the fact that we know that this is where the extent of the problem in Norwegian working life is greatest. For what we know, what we know, is that people who alert internally will have major problems afterwards with awakening and various internal disciplinary measures that leaders can take against them. In my opinion, the strangest limitation in the opposition's proposal lies in the concept of 'injury', i.e., where claims are made for the good intentions of the alert when it is notified. And I have to say that to me, as a citizen, as a politician or as a leader, it is that critical relationships come up on the table, the essential, not why those who warn do so. What is the background to the alert saying whether it – a high moral standard or a desire to harm the employer – is fundamentally irrelevant. My experience with the Working Environment Act is as a user. I have been a trustee and a protection officer for many years, I have taught the Working Environment Act, and I know that what is essential is that the legal text is as precise as possible. In my opinion, the Government's proposal is the best proposal in this context, although one should go very far in being kind to interpret the opposition's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-16-lower.ana.ud244e212	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-16-lower.ana.ud244e215	If I'm going to say my heart's opinion, I have to say that the post we just heard was an unusually peculiar post. The representative used 90 pst. of the time to talk about anything other than their own policies, just about others. That's probably the safest thing, given the starting point, namely a completely inadequate proposal that he himself is behind. I want to confront the representative Henriksen with a statement he came to the evening post not long ago, on 27 October, where he claims that «we have a much better and stronger alert paragraph». So ask Evening Post: «So the opposition, Transparency, Editors' Association and labour law professor Henning Jakhelln is all over the earth?». "Yes, they're on earth," says Per Rune Henriksen. Is this a statement that Henriksen is particularly proud of, or does he now later see that this might have been a little bit of a cross-checked statement?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-16-lower.ana.ud244e222	This was an answer to a question that I received from a journalist, and that I fully appreciate. I am not used to expressing myself in parliamentary order, and my respect for authorities has unfortunately been very underdeveloped throughout my life, so what I am doing is looking at the proposals that underlie and how they will work. Based on my experience with the Working Environment Act, I am fully convinced that the proposal we are making will provide the alerts with effective protection and protection, while the proposal being marketed as a better protection for workers will provide poor protection for the alerts. That's why I use a description of this proposal that falls naturally in my use of language, and that I am in favour of.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-16-lower.ana.ud244e227	I noticed that the representative Henriksen in his post stressed that why an employee alerts, has no meaning, it must be disregarded. Does not the representative believe that a warning to improve the situation, to learn from mistakes and to prevent, and to get a better job? Isn't that the whole point of a warning?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-16-lower.ana.ud244e232	That's probably the purpose of a lot of cases, in most people I'll believe. But it is very important to bear in mind that warnings about critical conditions in an enterprise can be very good in a heated situation where there are conflicts between the employer and the employee. Therefore, in my opinion, it is essential not to impose a restriction on the reasons for the alert to do what he or she does.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-16-lower.ana.ud244e237	I have a quote from Professor Henning Jakhelln: ‘It is my firm belief that the requirement of safety is so vague and unexplained that it would in practice be very easy to notify of critical facts in reality.’ Does the representative Henriksen not see that this is part of creating ambiguity, that what he then calls an uproar, but which is actually an encroachment from the minority, will give the opposite of what he claims here – it will give a greater degree of precision, and then a few will give the desired result in terms of warning? I believe that Professor Henning Jakhelln is quite right in saying that this, which is the majority's remark on this matter, will create less predictability.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-16-lower.ana.ud244e247	What we also know about situations where it is warned is that there are very often complex situations, where it is very difficult for us to put precise restrictions on alert protection. I would like to say that putting in place the limitation of sound alerting is a mild restriction that reflects the political will behind the proposal, and it is, in my view, well understandable. Based on the experience I have in reading legal texts, it stands out well, while the proposal from the minority is restrictive. I choose to believe that it is unintentionally restrictive, but in my opinion it is much more restrictive than what our proposal is.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-16-lower.ana.ud244e254	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-16-lower.ana.ud244e258	The Progress Party wants to strengthen the freedom of expression of workers, so as to increase transparency about critical conditions at work. That's what's needed. Time and again, we have seen the municipalities put their mouths on employees in the care of the elderly. The times brave women and men have published unworthy facts, they have been punished or tried to punish. That's not acceptable, and we're going to end it. There is a broad political consensus that workers who warn of critical conditions at work should be given legal protection against represals/revenue. The question arises as to how the legislative text should be concretely drafted in order to ensure that the intentions of the legislator are best respected. It should be stressed that critical aspects include illegal, unethical or criminal acts — such as corruption, pollution, abuse of authority, etc. It should be stressed that matters which a worker considers to be critical only by reason of his personal, political or ethical convictions must fall outside the scope of the alert rules. The Progress Party considers that the proposal to amend the Working Environment Act does not adequately reinforce the legal protection of alerts. The government proposes in the legal text that the warning should be sound, but the concept of safety is very inexhaustible and may lead to the worst-case difficulties for a worker to be alerted. This is also evident in today's Municipal Report where corruption hunter Eva Joly has views and punishes the alarm protection as proposed by the Government. The report states: ‘Joly’s statements are very clear: she is critical of the new alert protection in the Working Environment Act, where people are obliged to alert in a ‘responsible’ way. — The threshold today is too high to alert. I am not sure that the word'sound' is a good idea. The important thing is whether the warning is true or not.’ And on the other hand, ‘Joly encourages municipalities to take the law as a minimum standard, and to facilitate notification by themselves.’ Nothing prevents municipalities from being better.’ I totally agree with Joly. The only problem is that this law should prevent the municipality from punishing its own employees who are alerting about unworthy circumstances. As I said earlier, the municipalities are often the worst, and then a law is needed that takes account of it and is as precise as possible. The Party therefore considers that the restrictions on freedom of expression should be specified as precisely as possible and that the restrictions on the right of alert should be objectively assessed. The Progress Party therefore supports proposals to this effect for § 2-4 Notification of critical conditions in the business, where we say: «Worker is entitled to inform the public about critical aspects of the activity.» And on the other hand, ‘However, warnings may not be made in the interest of damage, nor must employees unduly disclose business secrets, commercial matters of significant competitive importance, or matters covered by the obligation of professional secrecy. The employee must first have alerted internally, unless the conditions of the employee have appeared so that internal warning will have no purpose.» This legal wording appears much more precise, and it states that the employee should of course not be able to abuse the right of alert in order to harm the employer. By being as precise as possible in the legal text, one, as Professor of Labour Law Jakhelln and Joly say, will better facilitate alerting. One could rectify relationships that today do not come for a day and, in the worst case, hit an innocent third party, which we have unfortunately seen all too often in the care of the elderly in Kommune-Norway. I am addressing the suggestions that have been made.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-16-lower.ana.ud244e296	The representative Kenneth Svendsen has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-16-lower.ana.ud244e301	There's a lot you could think of in this post. First, a comment: I am very pleased that there is obviously a strong desire to protect the alerts. We share that view. I would like to ask the representative about internal alerts. Why should there be explicit protection of public opinions, while the internal warning is not protected in the proposals of the Progress Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-16-lower.ana.ud244e310	First, I would like to say that I noticed that the representative Henriksen in response to a line in the city made a point that he came from a workplace where he had been a trustee and an organizational man, and that he himself had worked on the floor and was thus the right person to respond to this – among other things. what was said in the Evening Post. I feel that even though the representative Henriksen has a background as trusted and has worked on the floor, this representative has done exactly the same and has the same starting point as the representative Henriksen to be able to handle this and stand on the side of the alerts. I do not understand that he uses the statement he made in the evening post – that he gave it the answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-16-lower.ana.ud244e315	I am also pleased that the Progress Party wants to improve the alert protection. When the representative Svendsen says that there should be objective assessments to be taken into account when considering a case, it becomes difficult to read the minority text. In the minority text, there are terms such as: «injury intention». Yes, how has it been objectively assessed? There are concepts such as ‘illegal’, how has it been objectively assessed? ‘Company secrets’ and ‘substantial competitive significance’ mean how has it been objectively assessed? In addition to that, there are not personal ethical beliefs, but what is said to be general ethical standards, which are to be taken into account. That is when the concept of objectivity in this matter becomes extremely difficult to understand, and in our view it is much more unclear to the individual who is to assess it than the concepts that the majority have. How will Svendsen define «objectivity» in relation to these concepts?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-16-lower.ana.ud244e322	There is a point that Andersen, the representative, has now gone through, because she has mentioned some objective criteria. Alerting for injury purposes, for example, is an objective criterion. If the intention is to damage the company, or that, for example. is a revenge against the holding, it is an objective criterion. I feel that Andersen’s representative has gone through objective criteria – clear criteria – for how to mention this.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-16-lower.ana.ud244e327	In the legal text of Ot.prp. No 84 states the second paragraph of Section 2-4: ‘In any case, the worker has the right to alert in accordance with the alert requirement or the operating procedures for alerting. The same shall apply to alerts to supervisory authorities or other public authorities.’;» This has been deleted by the minority, for the benefit of: ‘The worker must first have alerted internally, unless the conditions of the employee have appeared so that internal warning will not have any meaning.’ Does the representative see that the internal warning will be perceived as a restriction on the right of alert and result in fewer alerts than would otherwise be the case? We've had a lot of discussion, and there's also a good part of the talk about the problem of internal warning, usually, although we all agree that that's what you should do first. But here you say that it has to be done first.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-16-lower.ana.ud244e348	It's also a but in this. It is clear that it should be notified internally first, because there is a lot of work that can be done internally without going further. But at the same time, it's often a boss who stands for what's happened. The waterworks in Rome were some of the things that it was difficult to notify internally first. It was natural to go on with it. But I don't see any conflict in the fact that you don't notify inside until you go out. It could be natural reasons, which is also mentioned in our proposal, for going beyond the internal warning first.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-16-lower.ana.ud244e353	The President will only stress that the replicant is to stand at the interlocutory until a reply is given.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-16-lower.ana.ud244e356	It is nice in itself to confirm that the representative Svendsen is also a brother in spirit, in the sense that he has a past on the floor and the ability to assess paragraphs and promise from it. That is safe and sound for democracy. I did not get an answer to the question that I asked the representative Svendsen in my previous reply. Why does the Progress Party not want to protect internal alerts in the law?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-16-lower.ana.ud244e363	Of course, we want to protect them. This is also reflected in the legislative wording we propose in relation to internal alerts. There's in itself a protection in it. What is important is that when there are irregularities in an enterprise such as the United Kingdom, management is not aware of, the warning is given that way. Then there is no reason to extend the law to give an additional warning about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-16-lower.ana.ud244e371	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-16-lower.ana.ud244e374	The law of Odelstinget deals with today is a very important matter, which is deeply concerned with one of the fundamental aspects of society, namely freedom of expression in general and the right of employees to give special notice. Unfortunately, it is expected that Odelstinget will take decisions that are, in effect, a defeat to the ability of employees to notify of critical circumstances. The case has a long history, and it's tempting to draw up the big lines. However, I will not do that, but I have to point to a crucial point in the near history. In September 2004, the new Section 100 on freedom of expression of the Constitution adopted a unanimous increase. The process leading up to this decision, I followed very closely since I was the case rapporteur. It became clear, through the examination of the Basic Law § 100, that there was a broad political consensus that workers who warn of critical conditions in the workplace should be given legal protection. Furthermore, Stortinget pointed out that the legal status of employees’ freedom of expression is not clear enough. That is exactly why I had great expectations of this matter from the Government. I regret having to find that I was disappointed. Rightly, the Government believes, as it itself writes, that the proposal is a follow-up to Stortingen's assumptions when the new Constitutional Act § 100 was adopted. It's sad, but here the government is actually bombing. The majority had expressed the wish, through the treatment of the new § 100, to strengthen the freedom of expression and the right to alert employees, not only a statutory regulation of the applicable law, because the Government says even several places in Ot.prp. No 84 for 2005-2006 that the proposal it promotes is a continuation of the existing rules and a codification of the applicable law on the obligation of loyalty. It is therefore an attempt at a great bluff when the red-green staging representatives try to imagine what they stand for, means a strong reinforcement of alert protection. They have in no way succeeded in explaining the difference in the terms ‘responsible’ and ‘loyal way’, either in their comments or in articles so far today. I am not going to in any way to conceal that the Right has been in a process in this matter, where we have moved in the right direction at every crossroad, namely towards a strengthened legal protection for alerts – as well as at the treatment here today, where we are going very far. I will also admit that it has made a strong impression to get insight into history and the fate of several individuals who thought they were on safe ground when they announced. Also, the revelations of several very serious corruption and mishaps in the media in recent years think I have influenced the legislative assembly in this matter. It has at least affected me. The red-green, on the other hand, takes a long step back from what they stood for just a year ago. Then they stated in their bill that it should be allowed to inform the public about critical matters. Now the warning shall be ‘responsible’ and the word ‘public’ shall be deleted altogether. Ein rather, says the red-greens, it should be legal for the employer to initiate investigations or other measures to bring to the fore who is behind a warning. That is exactly why I am disappointed, both at the Government's proposals and not least the red-green representatives here in the Chamber, who have not had the courage, the ability or the will to assess this matter with open eyes, but who, in passive and nesecrus loyalty to their own council, jumps when Bjarne Hakon says: Jump! Neither the government nor the red-green should have let go of such prestige in this matter. The matter had deserved better. I am concerned that they promise the Storting will decide, be precise, easy to understand and not so that one must be a trained lawyer to find out what the Storting really meant. Where the red-green formulation of the law is unclear and unpresisive and creates more deception than guidance, the legal formulation that an overall opposition promotes in this matter is far more informative and precise. We say quite specifically what very few conditions the employee cannot unjustly break. Our law is not something we've invented ourselves. We rely on a legal formulation supported by different environments with the best competence of the country in these situations. I mention: Professor Henning Jakhelln, Transparency International, Professor Jan Fritjof Bernt, Norwegian Press Association, Norwegian Journalist Team, Norwegian Editors Association, Norwegian PEN and the Institute for Research at Work. We are promoting this proposal precisely because we give priority to the overall approach, namely to strengthen the protection of freedom of expression and the protection of workers' rights to alert them to critical circumstances. Such conditions endanger jobs and enterprises if they are not addressed. Both for the employees themselves, for the owners and management of businesses and for society as a whole, it is vital that we bring such relationships to life. We can only achieve that by providing legal security for the employee who sits and counts on the buttons if he or she is to dry to warn. We add that security with our proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-16-lower.ana.ud244e397	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-16-lower.ana.ud244e400	I share Mr Engeset's request that it be notified. I also share the view that in many cases the lack of warning in companies will actually put the business at risk. What I would like to ask about, concerns the restrictions on alerts that Engeset and his party support in this case, that alerts should not be given in ‘harm’ terms. Does that mean that if by notifying me of corruption I want to hit my employer, is it uninteresting for the representative of Engeset? And will I not then be protected by the alarm protection?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-16-lower.ana.ud244e407	It's a very simple question to answer. If the representative Henriksen had read what we wrote, he would have already seen the answer to his own question. But he obviously didn't, so I got to give him some reading instructions in the text afterwards. Let's write on page 12 of the setting: «These members believe that this legal wording appears much more precise, while at the same time stating that an employee should not, of course, be able to abuse the right of alert in order to harm the employer.» And then it comes: «The fact that the interests of the employer may be damaged by a legal warning about, for example, corruption is another matter.» [[goodwill, reputation and economy]] These are our comments. That is a very clear message and the answer to the representative's question. But then it's very tempting to ask, with the legal alternative that the representative Henriksen stands for, you say that you can freely notify about the damage, if that's what you're actually doing, and if that's just what it was meant to be?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-16-lower.ana.ud244e422	I think the representative Engeset is in on some of the core when he says: How does the law work for someone who sits and counts on the buttons to see if he or she dares to warn or not? It is where it is difficult to follow the assessment of the two legal texts by the representative of Engese, particularly when it comes to the framework established by the minority, that there is no ‘own personal political or ethical conviction’ on which to base. For the assessment of e.g.: essential competitive considerations in an enterprise may, of course, be an ethical strake of enterprises and of individuals. Does the representative not realize that these will be assessments and balances which are almost impossible for the individual worker and which will therefore put the worker in an even more difficult situation than in the assessment of whether an alert has been acted upon properly or not?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-16-lower.ana.ud244e429	Actually, I don't think so. And we got pretty clear on that through the open hearing we had. Those with the country's highest competence in this area were very clear that the legal wording we are proposing, and where there is information about a few, quite specific issues that then restrict, provide employees with the highest level of security for the alert. The problem with the majority of legal options is the use of the word ‘responsible’. We can't in any way see that there's any difference with the previous concept of loyalty, loyalty. This is a bag post where nothing is mentioned, but where one has to explain afterwards what was ‘responsible’. Who's going to do that in case? It creates considerable uncertainty, and everyone involved in this debate on the part of the alerts says that our legislative option provides this security, while the government and majority options create uncertainty, uncertainty and uncertainty.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-16-lower.ana.ud244e434	The representative Engeset, we both thought of it bluffy and not likely to make our intentions. I'll be allowed to quote from the setting. It says: ‘The majority emphasises that the purpose of paragraphs 2 to 4 is to legislate for employees the right to notify critical aspects of their business and that the concept of soundness in this context must not be interpreted strictly and restrictively.’ And then we say, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ‘In this context, the majority consider that, when assessing soundness..., the consideration of health, environment and safety in the establishment, of users/recipients of the services of the establishment and of the interests of society at the time of alerting must be given greater weight than that of the internal interests of the establishment.’» Workers — all who expressed themselves in our hearing — were very satisfied with this framework of the concept of safety, and considered that it was far preferable to the formulations of the minority. Isn't it a little bold of the representative Engeset to say to the Norwegian people and to the alerts: you are being abandoned by the Government and the big crowd?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-16-lower.ana.ud244e449	No, no, no. Here we take into account what the Government itself writes, and which I have so far seen in the handling of this matter that the government parties here in the Storting agree. The government writes in the proposition: ‘The accountability requirement is the continuation of the non-statutory loyalty obligation in relation to the warning situation’.» This is the government's and Bjarne Håkon Hanssen's own formulation regarding the continuation of the current law. Then, through this debate, media articles and one by one, you try to present it as if you now have a strong defence of the freedom of expression of employees and the protection of alerts. No, it's not about that. This is a solid acting, where you don't take the step in the right direction, but you take the opposite direction of what you stood for last year. I am sorry, and that is why I am disappointed in this treatment. This matter is so important that it definitely deserved a better destiny.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-16-lower.ana.ud244e459	The representative Engeset chose to answer me with a question on my previous line, and therefore I take the floor again. Is the undersigned saying that it is entirely right that any alerts should be sent for damage? Yes, I think that's okay, and I can assess the warning myself. But I want to be notified if there are critical circumstances, illegal circumstances or circumstances that someone wants to warn about, and then the motivational alerts have to do so, be their own cause. So over to what seems to be one of the most admired by the representative of Engeses for some of those who expressed themselves in the hearings on the proposals, and they are raised to be experts on the subject. Does it not at all concern that the social partners – who are the ones to deal with these rules – are in agreement with the Government's proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-16-lower.ana.ud244e468	Yes, we care about them! But as politicians, it is our job to balance different interests with each other, and to assess the perceptions of the different parties in difficult matters. We have done that in this case, and then we have come to present the law option that those who have felt this on their bodies, those who have had the best competence in the field over many years, have spoken up for. They are very clear when they characterize the Government's own proposal. I quote Professor Jan Fritjof Bernt, who believes that «the assessment themes of the legislative text appear very employer-friendly and raise more questions than they solve». Further: ‘The proposal may increase the fear of employees from making critical statements.’ Similarly, we have statements from Professor Jakhelln and Transparency International, so we feel very confident that this should have been the result. We are disappointed that the Government, and now the majority of the population, is landing on a very poor alarm protection system, which is really nothing but legalizing the current law. It's a proper political belly pad compared to what you've promised in the past.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-16-lower.ana.ud244e484	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-16-lower.ana.ud244e487	The right to alert and to speak is important. Therefore, there is a need, and it is gratifying that there is consensus about it now, a better alert protection than it has been before. There is reason to note that the opposition today is happy that their own proposal from the previous period was not adopted. So it's with a little wonder that I'm recording that they haven't got what's in the setting, that the term "loyal" is not synonymous with the term "responsible". It's in the setting. It's just looking up and reading, and then you can figure it out. Then we will be able to put aside part of the debate that we have now had. There are two important issues today, and one is: Will the wording of the paragraph of law be understood simply, so that people dare to warn more? There may have been one of the big discussions here today. But based on my best understanding, and I'm not a lawyer, it's not possible for me to read the paragraphs so that the opposition's frames, concepts and word usage would make me more confident that I would dry to alert in a situation where I suspected that there was an unethical relationship in the company I work in. Here, they put a lot of emphasis on the company's internal interests. I have to say that I think the representative of Engeset is quite bold when he says that he believes that the proposal he is preparing is less business-friendly than the majority's proposal. Indeed, their proposal lists the internal interests and business interests of the companies that should govern whether or not to be allowed to notify. There are a number of issues related to it, which I have mentioned before in a line change, which I cannot with my best will understand that should be easier for a alert to assess in a given alert situation, especially when one finally says that this should not really be about what a sail thinks is ethically right and proper, but some slightly diffuse general standard for what is ethics in society. It will be very difficult for the individual to know. We therefore stress here that there is also a need for guidance for alerts. What we think might be one of the most missing things today is that you don't have anywhere to go to to get help both in your professional assessments when you're facing a dilemma, and maybe the ethical assessments as well. Therefore, we point to the Labour Inspectorate, but it is absolutely necessary that other public oversight also meet such a need for guidance to employees who are in doubt as to whether or not to notify them. So to the second question, which is whether the law will provide legal protection in a given alert situation when the case has been tried before a court. There I'll be careful to make myself the great upholder, because I'm not a lawyer. How a law is interpreted in a given case can therefore be a little different from how a person interprets a law paragraph from a popular understanding. But the concept of'responsible' is not unknown in the law. It is used in many legal provisions and is not a concept that is unknown and undecided. In the text proposed by the majority, therefore, the concept of soundness is not synonymous with the concept of loyalty, as proposed by the previous government, Mr Bondevik, but we have also stressed that there are the general concerns of social interests to be stressed. In addition, it is important to clarify that the worker must have a wide margin of discretion with regard to the choice of procedure. So the crucial thing is not whether what is announced is true or not, as the representative of the Progress Party thought, but that one has been in good faith, in good faith. The fact that it turns out in retrospect that what has been notified was not correct should not be decisive as to whether the warning was sound or not. None of the legal texts are being proposed today, which are free of interpretation needs. Therefore, I believe that neither of us should be absolutely sure that in any situation this will protect a warning. I'm a little bit uncertain about it. I certainly believe, with my conviction, that the majority's proposals are better than those of the minority. [[The President clubs.]] However, it is important to follow closely how the law is applied in practice and be ready to evaluate and modify it if it is to be demonstrated that practice does not now become such that it is easier to alert than before. [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-16-lower.ana.ud244e500	The President will remind the speaker that you have to keep your speaking time. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-16-lower.ana.ud244e505	I really don't think that me and Karin Andersen are very disagreeable in substance on this issue. That's why it particularly disappoints me that just as I read the situation, Karin Andersen has let himself be overrun to now landing on a law option and a law decision that stands so far from what she and her party agreed to just one year ago. There were others who stood for this, not just Karin Andersen. The Working Party, SV and the Centre Party wrote the following: ‘The Ministry’s announced investigative work on detailed rules for the freedom of expression of employees and the limits of the obligation of loyalty should result in Norwegian legislation receiving at least the same protection of freedom of expression as for employees in Sweden.’ What in the world has happened since June last year that has made a complete political counter-action now? Transparency International, in its opinion of consultation, states that government parties cannot allow themselves to adopt provisions that differ greatly from what they proposed when they were in opposition. What happened, Karin Andersen?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-16-lower.ana.ud244e519	The representative Engeset is guilty of the misunderstanding that the law paragraph that we are now proposing today, and the interpretation of it, is synonymous with the law paragraph his own government proposed in the previous period. So that's not right. It is not relevant because the concept of ‘loyalty’ has been removed and the interpretation of the concept of ‘safety’ has been affected in relation to the interests of society, health, the environment and safety in a completely different way. It takes care of the interests of society and the interests of alerts rather than the internal interests, as proposed by the previous government. Then it is true that we have not been able to follow up on this with the alert protection in relation to the Swedish legislation. It has proved impossible, because Swedish and Norwegian legislation is different, and there is a distinction in terms of protection, between public and private employees. We didn't want to create that distinction. But it is wrong when the representative claims that this has been a reversal on our part. I think it's probably the representative's party that's made a hustle and bustle.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-16-lower.ana.ud244e528	Karin Andersen has made a point that this is something new, and claims that this is a strong reinforcement of legal protection for alerts. But on page 50 of Ot.prp. No 84 for 2005-2006: ‘The accountability requirement is the continuation of the non-statutory loyalty obligation in relation to the warning situation’.» So Andersen from the pulpit today said that you have, that's correct, put in a note where you say something about this. Then my question is, is that comment an explanation of the fact, that there is no change, or is there a direct disagreement with the Hanssen Council?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-16-lower.ana.ud244e538	What the majority of the Committee has done is that we have made it clear how the concept of'responsible' is to be understood. There is a nuance between the proposition's text and the setting, because in the setting we say that neither the majority nor the minority follow the concept of a 'loyal way', as in previous proposals. In this case, the precision of the employee’s duty of loyalty would result in a restriction of the right of alert. We disagree with that, and that's why there's a shade here. The Committee has set out criteria for the interpretation of the term ‘responsible’ and that is in the context of the application of that law.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-16-lower.ana.ud244e545	This is going to be round about the concept of safety, and it's clear that we're going to come back to that. What I put on a little bit in Karin Andersen's posts here and what is stated in the comment is that you are very clear about the warning in relation to the public. It is not – as I can see and have not heard – in relation to the safety criterion and how alerts should be made. There is a great deal of emphasis here on how to do it internally, but not in relation to the public. Here it is a vague and unpresis note, in my opinion.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-16-lower.ana.ud244e552	I think it also depends on an interpretation of the majority's proposals that do not vote. There is no prohibition whatsoever in the majority’s proposal against public warning, but there are some requirements for proper warning. Some of the things that I think will perhaps be most important in what we do now in the follow-up to the law become the requirement for businesses and businesses to set up procedures for alerting, so that it becomes clear to everyone, both for the employee and for the employer, that there is a desire for alerting and how to do so. I think it'll mean a lot more that you put in place these routines, than that part of this pointed discussion that the opposition and the position have in between today, means. That, I think, will lead to a better warning situation in practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-16-lower.ana.ud244e557	When I hear Karin Andersen's posts and the linecode exchange, it is clear that the representative and SV are looking for a holiday after an exit to get away from the fact that you had a completely different understanding and a completely different starting point for the law just one year ago. There is little doubt that the red-greens in 2005 were in favour of a more liberal law. At the same time, Andersen says in his post that the new law, with the new legal text, will protect the alerts more strongly. At the same time, the exchange of lines with Skjelstad says that there will be a clearer distinction and a clarification from both the employee and the employer when it comes to alerting. Then my question becomes: how can the representative think that a formulation that creates greater interpretations of the law becomes clearer?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-16-lower.ana.ud244e566	That's where our assessments separate layers. I have tried to explain to opposition representatives today that, with my very best will, I am unable to understand the terms that the opposition lays down in its terms when it comes to alerting, namely that it is not to be done in the interest of harm, that it is “not to be unjust” – what it may mean – that business secrets or business relationships of significant competitive importance are being opened up where own ethical standards are not to play a role, but rather some general ethical standards. That's what I actually think in practice will make the situation more uncertain for the individual alerts. Then I realize that the opposition has a different view of it and evaluates it differently than I do. I have also said that neither the opposition nor we should be so sure that one or the other text here will protect any alerts in any situation. Then I am concerned that we will evaluate this law when we see how it works, because I am concerned that everyone now wants to strengthen the alert protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-16-lower.ana.ud244e574	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-16-lower.ana.ud244e577	In recent years, cases of corruption, financial crime or other critical workplace conditions have still been identified. If we are to manage to prevent such illegal and unethical practices, we must play by law with the employees and their trustees. It is important to establish legal rules that contribute to greater transparency in the workplace, so that employees dare to say away without being afraid to be punished for it. No later than 5 November this year, we were able to read in the Evening Post that every 5 Norwegian workers fear the consequences if they report an accident at work. Several health workers told me about bullying, freezing and that they were not promoted or sent on the necessary course. It is an additional challenge that the fear of career barriers is greatest in the public sector. In such a situation, it is very worrying that the Government is promoting a bill that shifts the focus from the employee’s warning relationship to the employee’s correct approach. This is to take the player – and not the ball. Christian People's Party cannot support § 2-4 which wants the warning to be «responsible». In our opinion, this requirement raises too much to an assessment of the alert's behaviour. We want the law to impose a limitation on employees' rights of warning only if the warning is made to damage the company. Notification should not be given if business secrets or matters covered by the obligation of professional secrecy are unlawfully breached. We believe that the legal warning threshold is significantly lower than the government parties add up to. Moreover, the legal provision will be easier for employees to deal with, and we are promoting a new §2-4 proposal in line with this. As the issue of alert protection was pending last year, the government parties underlined that Norwegian legislation receives at least the same level of protection of employees in Sweden. Our neighbouring country has a very wide-ranging right to alert, including anonymous alerts. It is criminal to initiate investigations to find out who has provided information to the media. Together with the Progress Party, the Right and the Left, we promote proposals for a new fourth paragraph of Section 2-4, which says that the employer cannot undertake an investigation or any other measure to identify who is behind the warning. This is entirely in line with what the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre wanted last year, and in line with what these parties could vote for today. The Christian People's Party has long wanted to legislate that if the employer claims that the employee has warned against the provisions, it is the employer who has to prove that the warning is unlawful. We are pleased that this has now been followed up. We also support § 2-5 on protection against retaliation in case of warning and the rule on the shared burden of proof. We regard it as positive that the employee who has been reimbursed in breach of the return ban may be entitled to demand a redundancy regardless of the employer's fault. If we are to strengthen the protection of alerts, it is essential that businesses facilitate alerting at the workplace. This can be done through better practices and better information. I will praise Lillesand Municipality, which has already adopted a new information regulation in which they state: ‘In order to strengthen the local government, the possibility of participation and control and the legal certainty of the individual, all employees of Lillesand Municipality shall contribute to the maximum transparency of our activities.’ They also stress that loyalty to the municipality should not prevent employees from expressing themselves in the public debate. I think it is exemplary and helps the employees to be confident that they have both a right and an obligation to say from.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-16-lower.ana.ud244e613	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-16-lower.ana.ud244e616	The representative Woie Duesund says that the majority shifts focus from the situation it's being notified to the form in which it's being notified. It is, with respect to reporting, far from what we have said, and far from what is apparent from the comments of the majority, than from the Ministry's proposal for a resolution, where the very starting point is the right to alert. It's stuck. I hope we do not now start to doubt that the alert protection will be strengthened by this legislation. The representative Woie Duesund says that it is important that we play with the employees and their trustees in securing the alert protection. So we took part in the same hearing, where a large number of organisations, employers and employees were present, and where all the employee organisations said that they preferred the formulation of the majority rather than the wording of the minority. How can the representative Woie Duesund say that you play with the employees?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-16-lower.ana.ud244e623	Firstly, I hope that the representative Sundsbø is right in what he said to start with. I think we actually agree, and I hope that what comes out of this discussion is that people feel that they are now getting safer at having the right to notify. Of course, the Christian People's Party believes that one should use the trust-elected and have internal alerts before one goes on. That must be the most important thing. We agree. When we've ended up in the second place, it's because the legal expertise was clear that it was the most correct thing. It seems that the focus is on the way a warning is directed, and not the content itself. It's the content that needs to be the most important thing, so that you can learn something from it and improve it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-16-lower.ana.ud244e632	No more words have been asked for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-16-lower.ana.ud244e635	The Government has made a proposal to ensure the freedom of expression of workers in employment. For the Left, freedom of expression is a fundamental right in a democracy and, fortunately, it is a broad political consensus that the legal status of alerts should be strengthened. The government's proposal is an attempt to follow up the Storing's assumptions about better alert protection, but the Left believes the Government does not entirely agree with its proposal. It is particularly strange that government parties are trying to present their proposals as the most protective of alerts. If government parties are concerned with providing alerts as far as possible protection, why are they anonymous alerts? In view of the opposition of the current government parties, they noted that the work on the freedom of expression of employees and the limits of the duty of loyalty should result in Norwegian legislation receiving at least the same freedom of expression as that of workers in Sweden. Public employees in Sweden have a very wide-ranging right to alert, including the right to anonymous alerts. It is obvious that the same batches now oppose a right for alerts to be anonymous. In those cases where management is involved in critical or unlawful matters, a right to be anonymous will be decisive for workers’ willingness to notify the public. The left is therefore in favour of employers not being able to undertake surveys or other measures to identify who is behind a warning. The possibility of being anonymous will obviously make more people dare to say from and notify about matters that are critical. The government parties find it difficult to understand that our proposal for an alert procedure that you put up here will lead to this happening. Following the proposal of the majority, warnings shall be ‘responsible’. We in the Left believe that it will not strengthen legal protection. There is today a loyalty requirement between the employee and the employer. This does not automatically require proper warning. At best, the government’s proposals will lead to an uncertain situation, at worst, reducing alerts’ rights. The minority has therefore proposed a more precise provision, which at the same time states that an employee should not be able to abuse the right of alert in order to harm the employer. We fear that such a vague legal formulation as a requirement of soundness will result in the fact that in practice critical facts are not being notified. I have read in some media that the minority's proposal is attempted as a restriction of the right of alert in relation to the Government's proposal, because we have clarified that workers have the right to inform the public. This must be likened to an interpretation that a certain person reads the Bible. Our intention to clarify that workers have the right to inform the public is, of course, to clarify that workers can not only notify in-house but also the media and the public. Of course, the employee has the right to alert internally! However, it is the external warning that often creates problems for workers. The left notes that the government parties believe that our proposal on the alert procedure would restrict freedom of expression. To that end, I would like to point out first of all that all these situations will be covered by the majority’s proposal that the warning should be ‘responsible’. Dissemination of business secrets on the basis of the majority’s proposal may be difficult. In addition, the majority’s proposal opens up uncertainty. A potential alert must consider and make a legal assessment: Is this appropriate? Are there any more things I have to think about? With our proposal, a potential alert will know that if he or she adheres to the procedure described in the legal text, he or she will not be able to be taken to be disloyal in retrospect. We in the Left believe that the legislator should strive to be as precise as possible in the design of legal texts. After all, this law is to be used by ordinary people. The most important thing for the Left is that alerts get a better legal position. Societals depend on people being afraid to say about critical conditions at work. The best way to ensure this is to give alerts the opportunity to be anonymous and thus prohibit the employer from initiating investigations to find out who is behind an alert. I have not yet understood how the government parties can oppose such an arrangement.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-16-lower.ana.ud244e654	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-16-lower.ana.ud244e657	There will be a discussion about terms in this debate. I need to ask the representative Skkelstad a question. When the majority now includes its assessment of the adequacy of concepts such as the environment, health and safety of activities, the consideration of users/recipients of business services and the interests of society, which shall govern whether alerts are sound or not, and the opposition shall interfere with only business interests, with concepts such as: enterprise secrets, which may be difficult to deal with, how is it possible to perceive that minority proposals are more general and alert-friendly than those of the majority? In our opinion, the minority's proposal is far more a protection of corporate interests than of the social considerations, on which the majority of people base their understanding.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-16-lower.ana.ud244e664	We've been to this a lot of times now, this health criterion. I want to try a slightly different angle of incidence to really answer this. We believe from the minority point of view that, by what's called upgrading from the opposition, we're concrete and precise. In addition, I would like to say that I am concerned and afraid that, more importantly – if a person uses the safety criterion, which is most likely to be adopted today – it will focus on whether or not the situation is notified, is critical and that it will turn the attention away from what is the intention of warning. I think that'll be a long step back.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-16-lower.ana.ud244e672	First, a manifest misunderstanding in which Skelstad has been guilty. He says that the majority opposes and prevents anonymous warnings. The reality is that the majority votes in favour of § 2-4 [[2]] ‘The employer may not undertake investigations or other measures to identify the person behind a warning’ – But you've always lowered what's going on: «unless the employer can demonstrate that there is reason to believe that the opinion or warning goes beyond the framework resulting from this provision». What's the difference with the third term, where it says: ‘The burden of proof on the employer that alerts have occurred is contrary to this provision.’ Wouldn't it have been better to stop there, so you wouldn't have any more confusion about what you really want, and where you're going?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-16-lower.ana.ud244e694	Here the representative does all he can to complete the confusion in relation to his own proposal. We from the minority are clear about what's present here, which means that there won't be such misunderstandings to which the sadly Sundsbø continues to come back. The new fourth paragraph of Section 2-4, which is our proposal, is clear and will make the frames clearer also for warnings.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-16-lower.ana.ud244e699	No more words have been asked for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-16-lower.ana.ud244e702	Let me first say that I think we have had a very interesting debate here today. It is also important to say that when this law is to be understood when applying this law, understanding should be based on both the proposition, the attitude and the debate in Odelstinget. After listening to this debate, there is at least no doubt that the application of the legislation will give strong signals of a strengthened alert position. I believe that the proposal on which Mr Odelstinget is going to take a decision today will strengthen the position of the alerts. The proposal clearly states that the employee should have the right to notify, and that the employer should facilitate this. I am convinced that the proposal put forward by the Government, which the majority of the Committee endorses, will provide a good basis for greater transparency in working life and will make an important contribution to the fight against corruption and other inequalities. There is a broad consensus that it should be in the area of access to tell about critical conditions at work. There is agreement that alerting is not just something we have to accept, but something we want. There is also agreement that the right and the possibility of alerting, and the protection of the alerts, must be strengthened. The disagreement appears primarily to relate to the question of how the right to alert should be formulated in the legal text. The government has not been able to disregard an overall advice from the social partners that certain requirements should be imposed on the behaviour of alerts. We have therefore proposed that a requirement be made to ensure that the employee's warning procedure is sound. It is underlined in the proposition that the safety requirement should not be interpreted strictly. I would also like to point out the proposal for a statutory and unconditional right to notify the supervisory authorities. It is a prerequisite that such notifications are properly evaluated and followed up. In this respect, account must also be taken of the warning at the heart of the case. Workforce and Petroleum Control will now review their procedures for the management of alert messages. I find it natural that other supervisory authorities do the same thing. Then I would like to underline a point that comes in the background of the debate on the legal limits of the alert. To what extent workers are actually willing to say about corruption or other critical issues, probably not primarily about legal access to alerts, but about the ‘culture of performance’ of the enterprise and the labour market. We have therefore proposed a rule that businesses should have an obligation to facilitate alerting. In my view, this might be the most important provision in the proposition. This rule implies that employers must take some active steps to ensure that internal criticism and information on critical matters are properly handled in the enterprise. This could counter conflict-affected alerts, which are a heavy burden on the enterprise, on the working environment and not least on the alert itself. And more importantly, it will give workers a signal that it is desirable and normal to say so that critical practices are revealed and not developed. In order to achieve this, it is important that new legislation is followed up with practical information for employers and employees. I will therefore ensure that a written guidance on the right to notify is prepared. Then I would just like to make a very brief comment that more people in the debate have used an article in the Municipal Report by Eva Joly. I agree in principle that it is important to listen to that kind of input. That is why I have also read the article with interest. What Eva Joly says is that today's threshold is too high to alert and is not sure that the word'responsible' is a good idea. The important thing, says Eva Joly, is whether the alert is true or not – yes, whether it is proper or not, I would have said in the same breath. So Eva Joly says that she has a great sense of American law, which does not restrict the protection of alerts, no matter what the motive the alert has. In other words, no one in this room agrees with Eva Joly.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-16-lower.ana.ud244e721	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-16-lower.ana.ud244e724	I want to start from what the Council of State concluded with. It is as he says: both Eva Joly and Professor Jakhelln have, in my opinion, been clearly critical of the new legislative formulation. It is correctly pointed out, as the Council of State also pointed out, that the threshold for alerting is too high today. What's interesting, as we've also heard in the line exchange today, is a bit of rumbling from one of the government's own representatives, who say that the kind of point of view that, among other things, is that. Jakhelln has, you should not put such emphasis on it. I'm not going to repeat the word he used in the Evening Post. My question to the Council of State will be: Can the Council of States – by providing examples – define how it defines the concept of'responsible alert'?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-16-lower.ana.ud244e731	What I think is important, as I also said in my speech, is that now this law is to be applied on the basis of the proposition, the attitude of the committee and this debate. This is what it says about the different areas of both the proposition and the position and what is said in the debate, which will form the overall basis for the application of the law. The proposition has a good discussion about the concept of "responsibility", and the majority have also clarified important points about the concept of "responsibility", which, in my view, provides a good basis for law enforcement in the real world. What is quite obvious, and which has emerged very clearly in today's debate, is that we are all, both majority and minority, concerned about having a low threshold. We do not want to restrict access to alerts to a small extent. Then we use different words on it, but the purpose is that in sum we want to strengthen the alert's position.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-16-lower.ana.ud244e736	It is interesting to note that one of the government parties, at the head of the committee, Karin Andersen, opens up an evaluation of the law that is being passed today, even before it is adopted. It's not exactly a good certificate to Bjarne Håkon Hanssen and his department's legal work and proposals. The Council of State is moving a long way towards admitting weaknesses in its own proposal, that it has improved through the treatment in Stortinget. We're happy about that. But it's not nearly good enough. Double communication is a widely used tool in politics, and perhaps especially from the Red-Green Government. You're protesting for the world, but you're on your way. We also see that in this case. On the one hand, the media image, as if it had come to Stortinget with a proposal which meant a significant strengthening of the legal protection of alerts, while on page 50 of the Proposition, the Council of State writes: ‘The accountability requirement is the continuation of the non-statutory loyalty obligation in relation to the warning situation’.» Doesn't the Council of State see that this is double communication?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-16-lower.ana.ud244e748	I feel from this debate that most people in this room have wanted to contribute to this law being done well in the real world, whether you belong to the minority or the majority. I don't think the representative Engeset is getting into that line, but I've wanted to confuse more than helping to clarify it. It is quite alarming, I think, that the representative Engeset is able to interpret how this law will work for the alerts and their position, only on the basis of the question of how to limit access to alerts. The position of alerts in society is not least about how to shield alerts if the alert occurs, what kind of burden of proof the employer should have if you are trying to pursue the alert, what kind of liability you have, and what kind of evidence you need. It is the sum of this that the proposals of both the majority and the minority will have the effect of strengthening their position today.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-16-lower.ana.ud244e753	In an interview with the magazine LO-Currentt, which was given before the committee gave its opinion on the matter today, the representative Per Rune Henriksen states that the opposition, through its alternative proposal, actually narrows down the possibility for employees to inform about critical matters. The legislative proposal, which is being promoted today by an overall opposition, is among other things. recommended by Transparency International, Professor of Labour Law Henning Jakhelln and Editorial Association. The recommendations have been given because, in their qualified opinion, this proposal provides the alerts with enhanced protection compared to the Government's proposal. This has not even been met by the Ministry. Does the Council of State agree with Henriksen's characteristic of the opposition's proposal? And would the alert threshold be lower with our proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-16-lower.ana.ud244e762	I believe, as I said, that this debate has been good, but it is very marked by the desire to characterise each other's proposals. I think it is quite fine, difficult assessments we are facing. My assessment, the assessment of legal people in the ministry who have been working on these issues for many years, and the assessment of many other legal environments that have been working on the work environment and warning issues for many years, suggest that the majority's proposal is the best formulation to strengthen the position of alerts. Then we have to respect that others consider it differently. This isn't a fasit. It's not right, wrong, wrong or correct, it's an assessment. And my assessment is that if I, as an employee of a Norwegian company, had assessed the understanding of all the limitations contained in the minority proposal, it would have been a more difficult assessment than to assess whether what I was now going to do was proper or not.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-16-lower.ana.ud244e770	I think the Council of State is right in saying that we all want the same thing here, we only have different frames in relation to alerts, and the minority, with the support of Jakhelln's writings, thinks we're right. The opposition has a different assessment, although I think that in substance we want the same thing. But I want to turn the question against the following: These are difficult topics and issues. Will the majority here see this in a longer perspective and possibly adjust if you see that it does not? I would like to hear the thoughts of the Council of State about it, how the evaluation will be carried out in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-16-lower.ana.ud244e777	We have no plans for a defined system for evaluating the provisions that we will be adopting today. But I would like to say that there is a strong position in the entire hall here that we want to strengthen the alert position. Now we have a law that, in my opinion, provides a basis for that. Then we're going to observe that law out there in the real world -- here in the living room, the work environment law has little meaning, we're not very covered by it, some of us -- and follow what happens. If this is how we feel that the law, against assumption, does not work in harmony with the purpose, we cannot have any achievement associated with the law – we must have the prestige associated with the position of the alerts. I will, of course, if anything like that was to be observed, immediately come back to Odelstinget with suggestions for tightening.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-16-lower.ana.ud244e782	No more words have been asked for a line. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-16-lower.ana.ud244e787	After listening to the debate, the main question is, as I see it, whether the employee has the right to inform the public or whether the alert is an internal matter. The left is pleased that it is now regulated that employees have the right to inform about critical business conditions. However, it is regrettable that the majority voting does not go far enough. In the case of the minority, it is established that the public is entitled to be informed. The minority is precise in its exceptions, while the government parties operate with the many repeated, very difficult to define, concept ‘responsible’. The warning shall be ‘responsible’. You can ask a lot of questions about the content of just that. What is ‘responsible’? Lawyer Erlend Grimstad has expressed it very well. He says, ‘What is sound warning in the eyes of society is not necessarily sound from the point of view of the enterprise.’ Grimstad expresses in this way a fear that this will not have a positive effect in terms of getting more people to alert. It is strange that the government parties must be perceived to have turned right around. In the majority position given by the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party last June, it was clearly asked for a law that was consistent with what has been done in Sweden. Now the same parties say that it's okay to delete the word 'public' from the law, and they actually write: ‘The majority will recall that the assessment of soundness takes place retrospectively, while the alert must take the risk in the present time’.» This can be seen as a warning of consequences. For the Left, freedom of expression is fundamental. The left is more public in all contexts and is on more sunny rights also for the alerts. The proper thing in this context will at least be to ensure alerting rights that enable them to detect illegalities and unethicalities and actually have our support. I know that many municipalities now have to review their practices in view of the corruption and other things, and I would recommend on behalf of the Left our own municipal government representatives and county representatives to focus on the advice given by professional experts in this area, just as much as the majority do, because here it is actually an opportunity to be more offensive.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-16-lower.ana.ud244e810	Just a few clarifications: The last speaker, Helge Solum Larsen, asked questions – or raised doubts – about the majority’s proposals gave the right to make public announcements. Then I do not fully understand how the representative Solum Larsen has chosen to read the setting. There is nothing in the setting that says anything but that one clearly has the right to notify the public. When one also tries to doubt the majority proposal by emphasising what is in the position – that the assessment of soundness must be done in retrospect – and when it is read and perceived as a strong warning, I wonder how the minority's proposals should be viewed in relation to the time order. For how a pre-warning must have occurred, be able to assess whether the non-warning has occurred ‘in the interest of damage’, ‘not unlawful’, etc., etc.? That kind of assessment will always have to happen afterwards, after the warning has occurred, not before the warning has occurred, so I simply don't understand the question and doubt about the majority's proposal. What I really asked for was a little clarification about what the representatives Åse Gunhild Woie Duesund and André N. Skkelstad were about when it came to anonymous alerts. Anonymous alerts are protected by majority proposals, and I just want to add, in addition to Dagfinn Sundsbø's clarification, that whoever alerts supervisory authorities or other public authorities, of course has a right to remain anonymous if someone wants to. For all other warnings, please read § 2-4 and § 2-5 in conjunction. There is no prohibition in § 2-4 that alerts may be anonymous. It's up to alerts themselves. If alerts choose to be anonymous, assume they have good reason to choose. When a reader reads it in conjunction with the proposal of Section 2-5, Protection against retaliation on alert, where it states that retaliation against the employee who gives notice in accordance with Section 2-4 is prohibited, it will also be shown that the person who has chosen to be anonymous under Section 2-4 is protected by the provision of Section 2-5 against an employer who might start carrying out investigations in order to find out who the anonymous is.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-16-lower.ana.ud244e821	With freedom of expression, I have my back. This was really supposed to be a happy thing, but I feel that it has become a very sad thing. During the debate, the parties to the Government have been reminded of what they said in their comments last June, that: «Norwegian legislation shall have at least the same freedom of expression as that applicable to workers in Sweden». The paradox in this is that yesterday a publicly appointed printing and freedom of expression commission in Sweden put forward a proposal that goes even further in protecting the freedom of expression of workers in Sweden, while in Norway today we are debating whether to restrict the possibility for Norwegian workers to alert. Sweden, which has twice as many inhabitants and half as many municipalities as Norway, should have twice as little transparency as we do, and therefore have less need to protect the freedom of expression of employees. But, fortunately, they don't look at Norway, and are brave enough to see the challenges. Here on the mountain we dare not see the realities in our eyes. This is not least about the public sector. In this case, there is no new technology that gives us challenges. It's often old methods and ruling techniques that challenge us over and over again. Is that how we want Norwegian workers not to feel safe enough to be able or willing to address unsustainable conditions at their workplace? What is a proper warning? Who will define it at the workplace? I have long been a trustee and a guardian, and I therefore think it is commendable that the government is now concerned about bringing down the large sick leave. Unfortunately, in my opinion, it is a direct wrong way to go to help create uncertainty about the freedom of expression of employees. On behalf of Norwegian workers, I strongly regret that the government parties do not stand by what they said last June. But fortunately, new technology offers new opportunities and can challenge old attitudes and closed cultures in the workplace. The Ad:warning.no site is such an example. What is adopted today is a protection of the system rather than of the individual.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-16-lower.ana.ud244e844	I feel that in many ways this has become a good debate, not because the final result when we vote through the matter later, necessarily becomes just like I and the Right and the opposition had wanted and hoped, but because the debate has given a very clear signal that there is a common political desire to strengthen the legal protection of alerts. So I'm going to be out-- I'm not going to hide it. That is exactly why I think it is also a pity that the law decision could not be clearer and more precise. But that's why we disagree. Well, it's got to be. What we know is that when the legal system is subsequently to deal with an adopted law, there are different legal sources. It is the pre-worker of the law through what is assessed and analysed for and against different themes in the odelsting proposition. The Committee's observations shall be in writing. And that is also the debate in the Chamber. So the debate we have had here today is also a source of justice for the judiciary to manage this law in practice. That's why I think it's important that there was a broad debate, and I would like to have a debate with temperature, as we actually have. I don't think that hurts the matter at all. But one of the most important legal sources is actually the actual proposition underlying the treatment. There's no doubt about it. That is precisely why I think it is so regrettable and so sad that the government writes in its own proposal that the requirement of soundness is a continuation of the non-statutory obligation of loyalty. That's what the government writes, and you can't talk away from it. I'm sorry. In addition, some in the debate have tried to create some ambiguity related to ‘notification to supervisory authorities’ and if the minority’s proposals do not open it up. Of course it does. It is so obvious that it should be almost unnecessary to spend time on it, but more for the sake of order: when we say that one should have the right to notify the public, we do not add that the public is synonymous with or similar to Akersgata, VG, Dagbladet etc. In this context, the public is also public supervisory authorities. It will be up to the alert’s own assessment according to his situation and his situation, and the working situation in which he is, whether to go to the supervisory authorities or to the public in a more popular sense, through the newspapers, radio or TV. In any case, the «public» is entitled to the same protection. I think the whole legal process takes place in a climate and an atmosphere that emphasizes the seriousness of the situation. There have recently been significant revelations related to waterworks scandals, educational buildings in Oslo, etc., which emphasize the seriousness of the situation. That is why I am pleased that this debate has now come. I am also pleased that the Council of State has given a very small opening so that when you get a little away, you can reconsider and evaluate parts of the law.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-16-lower.ana.ud244e857	I agree that the debate has made it clear that there is a great deal of unanimity on the point of increasing protection for alerts, and that is good. But there are objections to a bill that is not promoted. I recognize some of the counter-arguments. They have been against the draft consultation that had been presented, which is not similar to what is on the table. That's why this debate gets a little funny. When the representative Lightcloth from the Left says that today's bill will restrict the right to notify, she is making a positive mistake. It's wrong to claim such a point of view. In the case of relations with Sweden, public employees in Sweden have a completely unrestricted protection for their opinions, but not for those who work in private activities. In Norway, we have now had a desire to have a level playing field for all employees and not to make a difference between public and private employees. When she also says that she is speaking on behalf of all employees, it becomes a little dwindling, as all the employee organisations in the hearings supported the government’s legal text rather than the opposition’s legal text, precisely because one in the opposition’s legal text produces so many difficult assessment themes that it is worse for an alert to decide in an emergency situation that stands up. I think that's a bit strange assessment. I'm going to admit that I think it's a little strange to stand here, because in the last period, I also worked on these issues, and promoted some proposals for legal texts where I have to admit that I had a very close cooperation with Professor Jakhelln. I had that because I respect Professor Jakhelln, and because I know he can do a lot in these areas. But then it wasn't the same tone from, for example. Right, Christian People's Party, Advance Party or Left. At that time, it was not a particularly important legal source to decide on. So I see that there are several people here who have taken a different position now, and what I might think is a bit of a shock to the debate, is that you put some undertones in it, as if those who promote the proposals of the Government and the majority today, don't want to strengthen the alert protection. That's not right. We want it, and we do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-16-lower.ana.ud244e866	When I hear the two speeches by the representatives of the Left, Solum Larsen and Lysklett, I really have to wonder whether one has slept a tornrose sleep or been in a state of happiness in the last year, from their own government, presented a working environment law with a warning paragraph that no one wants to acknowledge today, until today, where we get a warning paragraph that in a much better way strengthens both the freedom of expression of employees, the interests of employees and the legal certainty of employees if they give notice. One has completely disregarded its own participation in the work on this earlier. Solum Larsen referred to the fact that it was so happy that the concept of ‘publicity’ had been introduced into the formulation of the minority. We have deliberately not done so, and it has been discussed carefully in the odelstingsproposition why you don't do it. The alert shall have the right to alert, whether internally, anonymously or publicly. The minority first says that you should be able to notify the public, and then you say in a later paragraph that it should first be notified internally. It is directly unfortunate and must create a level of uncertainty for those who are to interpret the law, read it and deal with it. So to anonymity: at least you should have taken the time to read the majority's comments on anonymity on page 11 of the election. The majority refers to the Labour Inspectorate and the Working Environment Act § 18-2. We have taken this from the odelstingsproposition, where it refers to the right you have to notify anonymously through the Labour Inspectorate. And then we say, hey, hey, hey, ‘The majority consider it important that this’ — this protection of anonymity — ‘also be taken into account in possible criminal proceedings. The majority would point out that there is also other supervision to be notified, such as the Credit Authority, the Health Authority, the State Pollution Control Agency and the Petroleum Control Agency. The majority consider that the same requirements for the treatment of anonymous alerts applicable to the Labour Inspectorate should also apply to those inspections.’;» The minority has chosen to print out formulations related to this, and then you come here and say that the majority does not take into account the possibility of anonymous alerts. I am pleased with the uniqueness that seems to be present that we are going to strengthen alert protection. I am amazed that the debate is then being used to weaken what is becoming the legislative formula and the premises that underlie us to do so. There may be a misunderstanding from people who have not taken the time to go thoroughly enough into the documents available. It may also be that you have enjoyed a debate that will not in itself at least strengthen alert protection, but will create confusion about what you are really trying to do here. But alert protection must be strengthened. As you can see, this is a good day both for freedom of expression and for the protection of alerts.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-16-lower.ana.ud244e883	There is no doubt that the alert protection is strengthened through the handling of this matter. There is nevertheless reason to address some critical questions about elements in this. I believe that what this House must be most unambiguous about is the political will signalled by the fact that we want people to stand up, we want things to be on the table, and we want to be orderly in relation to both the culture of corruption and other unethical activities in businesses, but also in the public sector. I asked as the main question in my original post: Is this what we want to be taken into public, or do we want the warning to be done mainly internally within the organisation/company? I am quite clear in the opinion that it must be possible to notify the public. I justify that – and that is what I think it is negative that there are no clear signals on – that in a municipality such as the municipality. has a culture of corruption, there will also be camaraderie, and then regulators are not alone probably a good enough place to deal with that kind of issue. In fact, we must have the support of the national Parliamentary Assembly that we can actually go out in public. That is what is my main concern in relation to asking the question of why the word has been taken out. It helps to make things unclear.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-16-lower.ana.ud244e891	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Footage, see page 52]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-16-lower.ana.ud244e907	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-16-lower.ana.ud244e916	The municipal law constitutes the legal framework for the activities of municipalities and county municipalities. The Ministry's objective is that the law should be framework and flexible and therefore applicable to the entire municipal sector. There is a constant trend in municipal organisation and in the municipal sector. There will therefore be a need from time to time to amend some provisions in the light of these societal developments. The Committee agrees with the objective that the municipal law should be updated in accordance with societal developments and be flexible enough to be applicable to the whole sector. The Committee is also committed to local democracy and wishes to give its citizens greater influence over their own community environment, inter alia. by strengthening local democracy. The Committee wishes decisions to be taken as closely as possible to the citizens of the country. It involves a significant decentralisation of power, where citizens are given greater influence over their own lives than today. Municipalities shall not only manage state schemes but have real influence over policies in areas relating to the inhabitants of the municipality. With regard to the system of direct election of rapporteurs and the continuation of the pilot scheme, it is in accordance with the existing legislation of the municipal law that the rapporteur is elected indirectly by means of the election of the local council. An extensive experimental activity, both at local elections in 1999 and 2003, has tested a system of direct selection of rapporteurs in several municipalities. This means that the citizens of municipalities themselves are given the opportunity to choose who will be the rapporteur for the next parliamentary term. The Ministry has assessed such a system of direct election of rapporteurs and has chosen not to legislate it now. The very mechanism for allowing municipalities to decide for themselves whether to select rapporteurs by direct elections is being very much welcomed by the hearing bodies. I have noted the Government's assessments of the need for more knowledge, and therefore the pilot scheme with direct selection by the rapporteur is being extended, which I cannot understand. Since we had a test scheme both in 1999 and 2003, this should be clear, especially when you know that there are more than 20 municipalities who have been on the test scheme and that there are more people who want to be on the test scheme. I also point out that the municipalities wishing to conduct direct rapporteur's elections have had to apply to the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs for authorisation, and that not everyone has been allowed to participate in such a pilot scheme. I refer to the fact that the municipalities that have participated in the trial scheme have had a certain freedom to decide for themselves the rules for the election. So in Kommune-Norway there is some competence in this with direct elections by the rapporteur. In the case of fixed-term employment, the municipal law states that the local authorities themselves can decide that senior management positions can be filled on a yearly basis. This provision includes the head of administration, the head of the establishment and the corresponding senior posts. It was assessed whether it should be possible for managers of municipal and county authorities and municipal representatives to be employed on an annual basis. A majority of the hearing bodies which have delivered their opinions are in favour of the municipalities and county councils being able to employ managers on a yearly basis. A minority of the Committee, consisting of the Progress Party, the Right and the Left, believe that annual posts should not include restrictions as to the position of management that can be filled for annual purposes. These believe that it must be up to the local authorities and county councils to determine what management positions are at administrative level, and that the annual target period should be at least one year, i.e. a reduction, and a maximum of six. The reason for this is that annual work provides for more administrative renewal and job redundancies and provides for the possibility of adapting an administrative structure as needed.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-16-lower.ana.ud244e935	It is important that our laws are regularly revised and treated in order for them to be proportionate to the time in which we live. The same applies to the highest degree to the municipal law. Other organisations have been politically organised, and there is a need for evaluations of certain provisions. Even so, you might say that the law keeps going well. Today, the municipal law preserves the offer to the entire population of the country. That is why it is a legislative amendment that affects many of us today. There are essentially three points in the proposal that are the same in the committee, and I will spend my time showing our assessments as to why we want changes or not changes. So let's start with the first one. With regard to the organisation of political work outside the municipality and the county municipality, the Workers' Party is committed to local flexibility in order to organise this with a view to the best possible democratic and practical solution. Political work is organized differently around the country. As far as possible, a comprehensive representation of the working party will be practised in most places. This is also very important for the majority of the Committee. The legalisation of the committee model has therefore been widely endorsed by the hearing bodies. However, the Committee notes feedback on challenges by striving for gender balance. For the majority, it is obvious that all politicians are striving to follow up on this in their list proposals, but also in their subsequent work with adjustments to the distribution of persons to different selections, committees, etc. The working party is therefore very positive that the committee model is now being legalised, so that it is also possible for local politicians to make use of it, if most appropriate. We are not in favour of legislating direct elections by the rapporteur. In general, there have been positive opinions at the hearings, but there is also some skepticism in relation to the organisation. The introduction of a new electoral system is not just because something is in the wind. It should come as a result of a desire for change, with a clear intention of strengthening or creating improvements for local democracy. That's why we started the trial scheme. A pilot scheme has now been in place over two legislative periods, and the Workers' Party still has some questions relating to the direct elections system that are unanswered. I'm just sketching some of them: How are we going to increase the personal focus of this electoral system, and what are we going to do with the content?How are we going to define the role of the rapporteur if he can be elected as an independent person or a minority representative in the Chamber? Will the rapporteur become a gallon figure? Will it be possible for direct elections or not direct elections to be governed by the permanent majority of the local government? How are citizens to understand this priority for each year? I'm not going to spend too much time problematizing this now, but for us, the debate will still go in relation to the dilemmas that emerge along the way – while of course we experience trials. To date, we consider the evaluations to be good references, but do not feel that the scheme as a whole has been adequately illuminated. The larger cities have also not been well represented in the scheme, and we also want to look at preference choices as a model. The working party therefore supports the continuation of the pilot scheme in order to facilitate maximum freedom at local level. But as you can imagine, the Workers' Party has an inherent scepticism in relation to direct selection, and we look up in the media, for example. in the Address Paper on Monday, that many municipalities have the same. The last point on which the Committee was divided in the vote relates to the proposal to extend the provision on annual work. While the right-hand side here wants a very liberal and flexible system for the municipalities to decide for themselves how to assess positions, we want to take care of the signals that came from the employee organisations as well. They're also sceptical about extending the rule. There is clearly an employer’s and employee’s focus on each other that needs to be taken care of. The Labour Party, in cooperation with the majority government, has tried to find a golden medium-way. We believe the attitude of the Government is good, and not surprisingly we end up with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-16-lower.ana.ud244e966	A living local government is the foundation of Norwegian democracy. For the SV and the Government, it is an important principle that decisions should be taken as close as possible to those concerned. We are committed to developing democracy, increasing recruitment to both local government, county councils, municipal councils, local councils and city councils. That is what this bill is about. It is positive that the Committee is unanimous in its view of the fundamental importance of fending for local democracy and that municipalities should not only manage state schemes. They shall govern themselves and be responsible to their inhabitants in their community. We believe it is right to have a law on municipalities and county municipalities that are applicable to the whole of the local government, and that are updated in accordance with the objectives we have for the development of society. We hope that the Progress Party will follow up this renewed belief in local government, which is based here on the setting, by making a settlement with its belief in state price financing and market solutions in municipal services such as school and care. With regard to equality and what the Progress Party has rewritten in the setting, it is easily recognizable. I'm not going to go into it anymore. I'm a member of the family and culture committee and I'm dealing with equality, so I know that argument very well – and I strongly disagree. So to the concrete proposals that are under consideration. There's agreement on a part of these. I don't want to comment on them. With regard to the question of direct election of rapporteurs, there is an experimental system. A total of 37 municipalities have participated in that experiment. The government has not concluded on the basis of the experiment. We are aware that the experiment has been evaluated, but will nevertheless continue with an extended effort to a limited extent before we conclude that the rapporteur's direct choice is included in the law. It is particularly useful to test the so-called preferred method, where the candidate can cross not only one candidate but make two preferences by ranking two candidates. This is a new system in Norway that we want to look at more closely. I would also like to highlight the clarification and extension of annual target positions in the municipalities. In this context, the possibility of replacing managers must be weighed against the general protection afforded by the Working Environment Act. Citizens believe that no restrictions should be imposed on management positions on annual targets. SV clearly believes that it is going too far. The Ministry has come to the conclusion that managers of municipal and county municipal enterprises are managers who can be employed on a yearly basis. The same applies to municipal agents. This we think is good. Year-on-year employment contributes to the renewal of municipalities and adaptations of management and administration to tasks and needs, thus also strengthening the local government. But we believe that the constraint in the setting is very good.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-16-lower.ana.ud244e983	The Christian People's Party is committed to having a good local democracy. We have to have laws and rules that work and that take into account all of the groups. It is our responsibility to make laws that ensure real participation, stability and security. Local democracy is perhaps the most important part of democracy. It's important to make sure that there's not too much power in a few hands. We want small and large parties to be heard. If the municipalities are to flourish, we must ensure that both strong and weak groups have the same opportunities. In this proposition, the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs proposes to legislate on the system of committee organisation. The new provision indicates that the committees are seen as their own elected bodies, and that's good. The practice of the committee organisation has been this way for many years. Then it is nice to have a regulated system that will help make the political work of the local government and county more interesting and attractive. The Ministry further proposes its own rules on elections to the Committees. This is in order to ensure optimal gender composition. The party of progress will not give any groups, regardless of their origin, special arrangements others do not have. The Progress Party believes that any form of positive or negative special treatment based on religion, sex, lay, ethnic or political affiliation is unacceptable. The Christian People's Party disagrees with this. We think it's right to raise some groups. That way, we can be influencing society in a positive direction. In some situations, non-discrimination may be necessary to promote equality. In other situations, non-discrimination can significantly weaken equality. Different measures are needed, not mechanical non-discrimination of groups. Equal treatment for people who are different does not necessarily lead to equality. It is therefore too easy to reject discrimination in the name of non-discrimination. The two of them are not different. But unfortunately, we live a society where a competent and qualified invader named Mohammed is more easily removed from the pile of current jobseekers than a competent and qualified Ola Nordmann. If we are to ensure a democracy with equal rights for all, we must bring some groups forward – yes, discriminate until there is no longer any need to discriminate in order for people to have the same opportunities. The Ministry will not legitimise the direct choice of rapporteur, but will also propose the continuation of the pilot scheme for future local elections. With regard to the question of the direct election of rapporteurs, the Christian People's Party shall join with the government parties. Not because we are opposed to direct elections by the rapporteur, but because we believe that the system we have today is working satisfactorily. In addition, today there is an opening for the municipalities that want the direct election of the rapporteur to do so. In Norway we have a long tradition that who becomes rapporteur is the result of negotiations between the parties. The Christian People's Party wishes to continue to focus as much as possible on politics rather than on individuals, including in the election campaigns of the future. Therefore, we see no reason to change a system that works well. § 24 nr. of the Municipal Act 3 states that local authorities and county councils themselves may decide that senior management posts shall be filled on an annual basis. A majority of the hearing bodies have given a positive opinion that municipalities and county councils should be able to employ managers of municipal and county municipalities. The Ministry proposes an annual period of at least six years. The Christian People's Party believes that employment on a yearly basis can create administrative renewal and job breaks that allow flexibility in the administration. However, it is important to ensure stability, and we therefore believe it is appropriate to set this period to six years. Then we will have a balance between the need for stability and the need for renewal. Because we don't want the municipalities to get into similar situations as Norwegian football is in when they switch top threes.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-16-lower.ana.ud244e1006	There are several interesting themes that concern legislative changes, including: the practical aspects of local maritime governance and equality issues. In order to facilitate political commitment, it is important that local democracy has a good track record. The proposed legislative changes involve steps in the right direction in relation to the stated objective of updating the legislation and being flexible and applicable. In particular, a new section on committee organisation has been submitted in line with this objective. In my opinion, it is a reasonable balance that underlies the specific provisions of Section 10(a) on gender balance as they stand. Provision was made for the composition of the Committee after the gender balance among those to be chosen. In practice, this means that the percentage distribution between the sexes of local government and county councils should form the basis for the distribution within the committee. In the case of additions at annual level, there is also a good clarification that has been made that managers of municipal and county authorities are included in the scope of ‘management positions’. Finally, I would like to comment on the comment of the Progress Party, which criticises the proposed measures to improve women's opportunities to participate in the policy, and specifically mentions this by bringing meetings to day. It is also said that this will exclude all those who do not work in the public sector and that it is only to involve women in politics. I believe this is an easy claim, which I, as usual, am a local politician, do not appear to have teams in reality. The challenge, for example: self-employed traders are more likely to find that the remuneration rules are not adapted to them than the day-to-day meeting. In addition, I would like to believe that the challenge for men like this. are infants' fathers, are as large as it is for women. Otherwise, I agree with the amendment of the law and I think it is right.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-16-lower.ana.ud244e1019	The committee model is the legalization of a model that is actually a lot in use in Kommune-Norway. The legislative nature of such a model is therefore positive. The proposal for an electoral system for the committees, however, is a somewhat strange cloning with a comprehensive representation, relaxation of the gender balance requirement and a lower age limit for eligibility of 18 years. This is contrary to the principles of the Left on the possibility of participation in local democracy. A relaxation of the gender balance requirement will in practice relate to the representation of women. Continuous representation means exclusion of sectoral or trade politicians. Nor do we like the fact that young people under the age of 18 cannot be involved in formal political bodies, as is available in the main selection model. This reduces rather than develops local governance principles. On the left, it is good for municipalities to have more regulated models for the organisation of political work to choose from. The committee model opens up different working methods in policy work than the main selection model. A choice of work forms is a clue both to important fundamental debates and, in many cases, to constructive solutions for local adaptation. However, regulating exclusion and less political participation can not be the intention of the Stortinge, nor is it in line with the many good intentions of the municipal law regarding increased participation and high levels of transparency. On behalf of the Left, I address our proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-16-lower.ana.ud244e1028	The representative Vera Lightcloth has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-16-lower.ana.ud244e1031	The municipal law is an important legal framework for the activities of municipalities and county municipalities. For the Government, it is important that we have a flexible and flexible regulatory framework that provides room for local adaptations. It is easy to agree with the Committee on the importance of giving municipalities real influence over policies in the areas of population. I am, as others have said, not least glad that the Progress Party is joining that objective. The municipal law shall not be a static framework. It needs to be adapted to the changes that social development contributes to. The government has therefore proposed several changes to the law, of which I believe that the following three are particularly important: firstly, that the committee model is legalised as a way of organising the political work of the municipalities. But it is important to stress that this is voluntary. We're not directly leading how the municipalities are going to organise themselves, we're just also legislating this type of model as an opportunity. The second change I would like to make in particular is the possibility of decentralisation of authority from the local authority to its own administration in the municipality. It is not surprising that this is done, but important. And thirdly, I want to bring forward the extension of the possibility of hiring on a yearly basis, so that the provision also includes municipal representatives. I think it has been said very wisely here about the balances that have to be made in relation to annual employment. It is difficult to find the balance between, on the one hand, wanting renewal – call it modernisation – and, on the other hand, ensuring job protection in a sufficiently good way, but we have bored ourselves until what I think is a good balance point. In addition to this, I would like to reflect a little on the question of the direct election of the rapporteur, of which we have chosen not to propose the legislative adoption. I understand that some ask questions about why we have not done just that. I have personally been a champion to try out a system of direct elections of rapporteurs. The main reason for this was the hope that the direct election of the rapporteur would contribute to greater local political commitment and that we would have greater participation in local elections. It's a little cross of thought that that hasn't happened. In fact, we are not able to see that there is greater participation or more involvement in the municipalities that have tried out direct choice of rapporteur. Rather, we have seen a challenge in getting a rapporteur from a party that is not in the majority formation in the municipality, and we can see the tendency for rapporteurs to end up more or less like Gaulian figures. This is what several people have been involved in. I think it speaks for us to continue the trial scheme, as we put it. Let's try out the model with the choice of preference. Then we don't have to end up in a situation where we have to run two election rounds. It may well be that trying out the direct choice of rapporteur over time will help us to get exactly the greater commitment we wanted, because the direct choice of rapporteur has been something new, and it may take some time to incorporate it. We add up to a significant number of test municipalities, approx. 50. There is a great deal of interest in participating in the pilot scheme, and we look forward to engaging in dialogue with the municipalities that want to participate, also with a view to having a good part of them also carry out attempts to change the authority of the rapporteur, which, in turn, will be an instrument to address the problems of rapporteurs who end up as castors.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-16-lower.ana.ud244e1044	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-16-lower.ana.ud244e1048	As a warm supporter of local democracy and a warm supporter of local self-determination, the Progress Party is committed to the decision by each municipality to decide how the rapporteur in each municipality is to be elected. It is a natural extension and further development of local democracy. This is about trust in our elected local representatives. Similarly, we believe that making a decision on the use of annual employment is one thing that individual local elected politicians can best assess. Is it not problematic for the Central Party, which, in any context, presents itself as the foremost champion of local democracy, to be involved in preventing further expansion and improvement of the framework of local democracy?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-16-lower.ana.ud244e1055	I am pleased to say that the Central Party, through the changes proposed here, is in the process of further developing local democracy. We're busy with that. In terms of annual targets, there are arguments for and against. The arguments for, as many have argued here, are that it contributes to administrative renewal and job breakage. But on the other hand, there are arguments against the fact that we have to protect the job. It is in this area of tension that we have come up with the proposals presented here, which I believe represent a very good balance. With regard to the direct election of rapporteurs, this is the same. Those are arguments for, and those are arguments against. But we do not see that we have achieved what we wanted through the trials that have been carried out, so we do some more to see if there is more to extract.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-16-lower.ana.ud244e1064	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-16-lower.ana.ud244e1069	There is a lot of rhetoric about this to strengthen local democracy, especially from the government parties. But the same parties are sceptical about direct elections on the rapporteur. They are sceptical that the municipality itself can assess the need for goals. Then I think that the rhetoric and the statements that come from the pulpit are not entirely appropriate to what you do. I would also like to refer to some of the measures proposed to increase the participation of women in policy, for example. the proposal to set the meeting time at daytime. In practice, it will exclude anyone who does not work in the public sector. It's taken up by a previous speaker here. It's just the experience that's out in the municipality, that's breaking in here. These are the feedback we get from our elected people, we take into account. We have so much faith and confidence in local democracy that we want to lay down the county council and leave more tasks to the municipality. So those who claim that the Progress Party does not trust local democracy, and does not want to leave more responsibility to local politicians, are completely wrong. Finally, I would like to address the proposals that we have made in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-16-lower.ana.ud244e1080	The representative Ib Thomsen has taken up the suggestions he referred to. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see page 54]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-16-lower.ana.ud244e1098	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footage, see page 57]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-16-lower.ana.ud244e1114	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-16-lower.ana.ud244e1123	Odelstingen shall examine the draft law on changes to the law on soil. The Economic and Social Committee has examined the matter, and it is a unanimous committee that supports the proposals of the Government. The Committee points out that the proposals for amendments to the law of nobility have not been consulted. The Government states that the changes in Sections 16 and 31 do not imply a change in reality, and it is on this basis that the Right supports these changes in the law of nobility. The Committee agrees with the Government that it is not a State task to carry out structuralisation through voluntary State acquisition of property under Section 6 of the Land Act. Structuralisation should be through negotiations between the owner and the interested party without the impact of the State. The Committee therefore supports the amendments to Section 6 of the Soil Act. The Committee also supports the removal of the expropriation helmet in the Law and welcomes its strengthening of ownership. The government suggests otherwise to raise some of the other illegal laws. This applies to: law on the regulation of the production and marketing of potato flour and other temporary prohibitions on imports, etc., of the prohibition on the placing on the market of unstamped meat and skins of domestic animals of the bovine species on the marketing of furskins laws on import duties and commodity price countervailing on exports of products produced by the processing of agricultural raw materials laws repealing the Law on the State Agricultural Bank, etc. [[exportation]] The Committee supports these simplifications and agrees to the repeal of those laws. Although all the proposals in the proposal have unanimous agreement, there is disagreement in the Committee on an important matter of principle. The background to this bill is a consultation note from the Bondevik II government proposing to remove the ban on division in the soil law. This proposal has not been promoted by the Government, on the grounds that a number of hearing bodies, mainly municipalities, have expressed a negative opinion on the lifting of the prohibition of division. Here the members of the Progress Party, Right and Left show that the prohibition of sharing in Section 12 of the Soil Act imposes a significant restriction on the ownership of the landowners. The law imposes strong restrictions on the right of the owner to dispose of his own property. The prohibition of sharing places unnecessary obstacles on the ability of owners to expand or to establish alternative industrial development on the agricultural property. The Party of Progress, the Right and the Left believe that changes to the law on soil should facilitate more efficient agricultural and service production, while owners of agricultural property should face fewer prohibitions when they wish to exploit the property for other purposes. Changes in the law on soil should also enable those who have income from activities other than traditional agriculture to own small farms or to live on land in agricultural areas. A lifting of the ban on sharing will facilitate changes in the structure of ownership and use which are more consistent than at present with a forward-looking agricultural policy. The proposal to lift the ground law ban was promoted in spring in Document No. 8:27 for 2005-2006, and it is referred to in the vote on this proposal. The increase in the concessional limit for the placing on the market of agricultural properties in 2004 led to an increase in the turnover of agricultural properties with buildings at market prices. This is confirmed by statistics from the Statistical Central Bureau published yesterday. In the period 2000 to 2005, the turnover of agricultural property increased by 30 p.m. at market prices and the largest increase in turnover has been for properties below the concession threshold. The statistics show that increased concession limits in 2004 increased the turnover of agricultural properties for housing and leisure purposes. The figures confirm that the concession law imposes strong restrictions on the ownership of Norwegian farmers. In contrast to the government parties in general and the Central Party in particular, the right will strengthen the ownership of the peasants. Therefore, the Right will remove not only the ground law ban but also the concession law. Otherwise, I would recommend the Committee's position.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-16-lower.ana.ud244e1176	I would like to thank the President-in-Office for a clear and transparent presentation of the matter. We in the Labour Party are pleased to note that there seems to be agreement on the proposed amendments. As the rapporteur has gone through this thoroughly, I am not going to take the time to repeat it. However, I think there is reason to stress the responsibility of the county council, the county agricultural board – as long as we have it – and the municipality, according to Section 6, has to initiate good planning processes around the challenges related to how the land in each municipality should be used. Some municipalities have come a long way in this work in good dialogue with users. It is important, and thus a good basis for establishing a good local agricultural policy. What we are dealing with here today is a clean-up and adaptation of the law and a winding-up of arrangements that are not needed, which have been little used and, in part, not used in the whole. Society, with developments in agriculture as well, has other challenges today. For my part, I only have a few single comments. Firstly, I note with satisfaction that there is a broad consensus, including at the hearing bodies, that lifting the ban on sharing would have adverse consequences. Short-term solutions that do not meet the need to ensure good, well-rounded agricultural land will in the long term have a negative impact on the objective of living farming throughout the country. In my view, and in relation to some of the agricultural policy debate that the Progress Party in particular has initiated, I think this is positive. It is important for me to stress that the freedom of exemption granted by the law must be practised wisely and in a sense and while recognising the differing importance of agricultural production in the country. Once the obligations of Section 6 have been met in a good way, one also has the best basis for the treatment of dispensations. It is therefore important to balance the consideration of the future agricultural resource base with any other important societal considerations such as housing and the desire to stimulate other economic development. When it comes to the question of how much resources a saver saves through the changes that one here puts up to implement, I don't have any particular belief that there's an overwhelming amount, given that there have been few issues you've had to deal with. But what is important is, of course, that management at all levels has a continuous focus on cost-effective, rational and good operation.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-16-lower.ana.ud244e1196	In the spring session, the size had a quite thorough debate on the law of the land, when we discussed a proposal from representatives of the Left. That is why I am not going to go into this debate particularly now, except to point out the views expressed in the debate that we had in ours. That debate showed that there is a great deal of disagreement in the Grand Duchy as to how the law of the land law should be, where the majority of the Grand Duchy wants to have a rigid code, and wants to override both municipalities and landowners through detailed legislation in the law of the land. It does not want the Progress Party. We want to strengthen ownership. We also want to strengthen the right of municipalities to dispose of land within their own municipal borders. Strictly speaking, the state should not have anything to do with this at all. This should be up to the individual landowner and local democracy in the municipalities. I also want to refer to the setting. The majority of the Committee, members of the Labour Party, of the Socialist Left Party and of the Central Party, write as follows: ‘The legislation must facilitate the development of individual users within a framework within which the total resources of the farm can be used as a whole. A lifting of the ban on division could help to weaken the nutritional basis and reduce opportunities for new nutritional developments.’» There's a lot of disagreement between the minority and the majority. In the opinion of the Progress Party, it is the right of the landowner to assess how farm resources can be used. At the latest today, I received a telephone call from a farmer who wanted to sell a plot to the municipality that would be used for kindergarten. The money was to be reinvested by building a new and modern poultry, an investment he would have problems doing otherwise. I believe that it would be a very good management of the farm's total resources to ensure further operations in the future by redeploying the resources on the property. I would also like to refer to the comments of the Progress Party, the Right and the Left in the document that a resolution or simplification of the legislation in this area will in the long term contribute to simplification and savings of resources. There is no doubt that there is a great deal of resources to save in the field of agriculture in terms of red tape. Because agriculture is the country's most permeable industry, there's a lot to spare. Finally, I would like to refer to the good report that the rapporteur had.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-16-lower.ana.ud244e1212	I believe that the attitude of the Business Committee on Law on Earth's Changes to the Law deserves broad political support. There is a need to change and adapt the law of the land to the current situation, in line with the needs of agriculture and society. The Ministry chose to withdraw the proposal for the removal of the ban on division. I want to dedicate the rest of my post to say something about why it was a very wise decision. Development and growth require a lot of thinking and long-term planning. In an agricultural landscape, in an agricultural landscape, it's not just the individual property that's interesting. The use of the properties in the surroundings of the owner who wants to share is very important in terms of the properties left in traditional agriculture. We've had a formidable cessation of use, but fortunately, in terms of the areas that have left the production, it hasn't been so dramatic. Modern operating methods mean that we have kept the level of volume produced relatively high. When a landowner or farmer chooses to leave the industry, it must be possible to prevent his farm from being split up and disposed of in such a way that it poses a threat to them around this farm that chooses to remain in the industry. There must be little imagination to imagine an unfortunate mix of agricultural, housing, leisure, industry or other industrial activities. Not all types of industrial activity can be harmonised with traditional farming — not with complementary industries, such as agriculture. travel experiences. It is the municipalities that are dealing with applications for a derogation from the sharing ban in the soil law today, and I think they are doing so in a exemplary way. There is sufficient access to take account of the need for transition to new industries or to additional industries. So here I disagree with the minority in the committee, which claims that the ban on sharing limits the rights and opportunities of the landowners to such an extent that it should have been lifted. The minority believe that the law prevents efficient agricultural and service production. I would definitely reject that. Rights and opportunities have been, and are, present in sufficient quantity. There is no doubt that there has been a change in agriculture. There has been restructuring and streamlining, through a variety of forms of cooperation to a greater or lesser extent, such as: machinery cooperation, replacement arrangements and – in recent years – common grazing. There are many different forms of co-operation, such as: co-farming where the animals are in newly built, modern poultry and with individual feeding and milking. This type of cooperation has stimulated several forms of innovation and ancillary industries, based on the land and buildings of the co-operatives – and on the competences of these people. Both small and large uses are part of this type of cooperation, and it is acknowledged that those who are not engaged in primary production have the opportunity to develop travel lives, or other variations of experience industries, mechanical workshop – or whatever it may be. Those who have income from activities other than traditional agriculture live today in the houses on the farms or in houses on the separated land on the agricultural properties. The fact that the government parties do not see the need to remove the prohibition of sharing is precisely that the freedom of exemption is exercised in a sensible way and that it operates in a satisfactory manner. The core of this for me is that the agricultural land is taken care of well, even if it is a plumber or an author who lives in the main house. We are responsible for taking care of the earth. The prohibition on sharing makes agricultural properties mainly used for what they are best suited to: the production of food or of timber – or of biodiesel, if that is the case. The ban on sharing means that the list is to be high before the large community chooses to let good food grain soil or high-productive forest land be built down, asphalted or otherwise removed from production. I don't think someone's too rigid. I don't think there's any override here. Here it's a sensible management of a minimum resource, which we're going to need in the foreseeable future.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-16-lower.ana.ud244e1235	First, I must be allowed to draw attention to a typographical error in the comments of the Christian People's Party in the setting. It says that a desired ‘good tool that can stimulate creativity, business exchange and bustet’. Exchange wants one not, it's development Christian People's Party is after. So I hope that misunderstanding is solved. The only question that is clear to us today is the proposal in the consultation note from the previous Minister of Agriculture to lift the ban on division in the law on soil. In addition, legislative proposals involve different regulatory simplifications. Very few people will regret the fact that agricultural policy legislation is at least a little easier to deal with. The debate on the ban on sharing today is, for all practical purposes, a repetition of the debate in Odelstinget on 1 June this year on exactly the same subject. Not surprisingly, the Christian People's Party now believes the same thing as the last time it was discussed. We believe that the proposal for increased property flexibility in agriculture had a good intention. Creativity and industrial development are at least as important in agriculture as in other industries in order to achieve the goal of viable societies across the country. But it's okay to listen to good notions about the overall impact of the proposals, especially when feedback was as clear as in this case. The vast majority of the hearing bodies, and in particular the Municipality of Norway, felt that this proposal could make it more difficult to maintain a varied use structure and weaken soil protection. Both of these aspects of agricultural policy are very important for the Christian People's Party. An active agriculture in all parts of the country is an important tool for maintaining both the main features of today’s housing patterns and a living cultural landscape. This implies the need to facilitate a varied use structure that takes into account both traditional family use and the possibility of different forms of cooperation. Strict soil protection is important in order to ensure national and global food production capacity. We have taken the consequences of the unique advice from District Norway on this matter and are still in favour of lifting the ban on sharing. As is known, there are, in any case, legal possibilities for exemption from the prohibition on sharing in some cases, taking into account the existence of a residence or new establishment. It's okay to listen to good advice. It is allowed to adjust the rate when others come up with arguments that one actually believes are important. It should remember all parties, not least the majority constellation, in other matters as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-16-lower.ana.ud244e1252	The centre party, like the majority of the hearing bodies in this case, considers that lifting the ban on sharing agricultural property would have adverse consequences for Norwegian agriculture, for the future of individual farms and for general soil protection. In addition, we believe that it is outdated practice that the country buys and sells agricultural land for further rational distribution and sale to neighbouring farms, when such transactions can be best and most usefully determined between the owner and the interested person himself. At a time of great pressure on agriculture and the revenue base of the practitioners, a stable and sound framework is required to prevent further depletion of income bases and prospects. An open-ended design release would provide a short-term gain for an income-impaired group. The majority have more visions for the industry than that. Resources and areas as per date may not be regarded as revenue-generating, can in the future make good income contributions through, for example: bioenergy, small energy, green care or the rental of hunting and fishing rights. We want to facilitate the long-term management of resources in Norwegian farm use, which provides opportunities, rather than short-term sales of resources. The intention is to keep the resources where they are best managed and create the highest potential, rather than a fragmentation of ownership and land. The Centre Party considers that it is best managed through local ownership and management of agricultural resources. The industrial development potential and the potential for income lie in the total resources of the uses. This requires activity and hope in traditional agriculture and an agricultural policy that gives the industry the opportunity to do so. Full-time farmers in family farming ensure the best employment, housing and diversity in agriculture, and by holding more and more resources on the holding, the possibilities are greater. The ban on sharing was introduced in 1955 in response to a large-scale division of Norwegian farms through inheritance and distribution of land to siblings. This resulted in a break-up and a reduction of productive agricultural land and subsequent degradation of the farm base for many farms. My own homestead is a good example of this. In previous generations, the property was distributed in many rounds. My father, who is a full-time farmer, has in vain tried to get back the properties that were disowned. One thing is that this, of course, weakens the operational basis and leads to inappropriate arrogance. Another thing is that these properties today are delocated or, at best, recreational properties. The centre party does not want such a development to be reintroduced in Norwegian villages. This isn't progress, it's backwards. We have maintained local ownership of large parts of the land and forest resources in Norway through regulations relating to odel law, concession law and bans on sharing. These are fundamental democracy and values for which the Central Party will continue to fight.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-16-lower.ana.ud244e1272	The President will recall that the scheduled time for tomorrow's meeting is soon to come, but will propose that the meeting continue until today's map is completed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-16-lower.ana.ud244e1275	It is a unanimous recommendation from the Committee, but I would like to make a few comments. The members of the Progress Party, the Right and the Left refer to the examination of Document No. 8:27 for 2005-2006, where proposals were made to remove the ban on division in the soil law. Reference is made to the fact that the prohibition of division in Section 12 of the Soil Act restricts the right of the owner to dispose of his own property and places unnecessary obstacles on the owner's ability to expand or establish alternative industrial development on agricultural property. Furthermore, one would point out that the changes in the law on soil must facilitate the development of robust properties as a basis for more efficient agricultural and service production. Furthermore, one should facilitate the possibility for those who have income from activities other than traditional agriculture to own a small farm or to live on large plots in rural areas. A lifting of the prohibition on sharing may facilitate changes in the structure of ownership and use which would be more consistent than at present with a forward-looking agricultural policy leading to simplifications and improvements in the ownership of Norwegian farmers and strengthening the access to capital, not least, to other investments in the properties. What, then, is the advantage of the countryside? Well, there's room, there's an opportunity to create attractive properties where we can live, live and work at an affordable price. Land resources should therefore be disposed of in a manner that provides a decent and varied use structure based on the societal development of the area, with a focus on housing, work and operationally sound solutions. For farmers who wish to invest in another business, the abolition of the ban on sharing would allow for the realisation of capital values, which in turn could have provided the basis for increased investment in industrial development on farms. For those who want to settle in the districts, one could accommodate just this. Studies show that the interest in small purchases is high. Such a change would have bound far fewer municipal resources in the treatment of the waiver request, and the towns could have attracted other people, who could have seen the possibilities in relation to this. Many towns struggle with deportation, and these grips could have helped to counteract it. I would otherwise like to say that it is positive that the expropriation homes in the soil law are proposed to be abolished. This will help to strengthen private ownership. Finally, I would like to point out that it will be a bit special for me to listen to this conservation policy from the representatives of the Central Party. I expect that in many ways this is also there when we will listen to the Minister later. It's a preservation of the little future-oriented. One could have had the opportunity to consider this as a law of division, and looked at the possibilities of getting more people to move to rural areas. Unfortunately, the majority do not want it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-16-lower.ana.ud244e1292	Odelstinget is currently examining proposals for amendments to several provisions of the Law. As a result of these amendments, it is also necessary to amend two provisions of the Odel Act. In addition, the proposal repeals six other laws. This is partly a proposal which means simplification and cleaning up the law, and partly a proposal to repeal legal provisions that I believe have played out their role today. The proposal concerns issues that have been few for treatment in recent years. I therefore do not expect the changes to release significant resources in the municipalities or in the county/farmers' boards. I see that parts of the committee have expressed themselves differently. I am pleased that there is consensus in the Committee on these amendments, and sees no need to comment on them any further. On the other hand, the Committee has been divided on the issue of abolishing the general prohibition of division of the law. I would therefore like to use the rest of my post to say something about the background of the Government's view on this question. I would also like to take the opportunity to say something about how some aspects of practice should be in these cases. The government does not want to abolish the general ban on division of the law. This is also supported by the broad consensus among the hearing bodies that the prohibition of sharing should be maintained. The majority of the Economic and Social Committee also agreed to this view in the context of the examination of a document No. Eight proposals in June this year. In my view, rural development and growth require long-term thinking in relation to how resources should be allocated to individual property, also in relation to the design of the framework conditions. Legislation must facilitate the development of individual users within a framework within which the total resources of the farm – I repeat: total resources – both land and buildings can be used as a whole. I believe that the abolition of the general ban on division could help to weaken the nutrient base and reduce the possibilities for new industrial development on agricultural properties. Repeal could further lead to rural development infiltrating good agricultural areas and creating problems for business. I also believe that an abolition could have unfortunate consequences for soil protection. Under the rules in force, authorisation for de-allocation must be applied for prior to the possible sale of part of an agricultural property. Municipalities decide whether sharing consent is to be given after concrete and individual assessment. They may consent when they see that a division will not have an impact on the use or the agricultural environment in the area around it. The cultural landscape and the planning situation may also be taken into account. In my view, the ban on sharing provides a good opportunity to take care of all important societal concerns. I believe it is important that municipalities, when deciding on sharing requests, carry out a practice that ensures and maintains the resource base of agricultural property, contributes to a good use structure and prevents operational and environmental disadvantages that can arise when agricultural land is infiltrated with agricultural property. A number of split requests relate to the de-allocation of the buildings and the sale of the agricultural land as additional land. For me, traditional family farming is an important support for Norwegian agriculture. It is important to take care of small and medium-sized applications and to maintain precisely this varied use structure we have, among other things. for housing and cultural landscapes. It is therefore necessary to allow different uses of the active substances according to different needs in the countryside and in press areas close to cities and agglomerations. I believe that there is an unfortunate development in the construction and dissociation of cottages. In my view, consent shall only be given to the conduct of a state dwelling where there is no doubt that a state dwelling is necessary for the operation of the property. In this context, it is important to bear in mind that agriculture has undergone significant developments in recent years and that the need for housing is not as great as in the past. In the case of the dissociation of dwellings in the same housing unit, such dissociation shall not initially be permitted where the latter is necessary for the purposes of operations. The assessment must have a long-term perspective. Therefore, if the municipality has made a proper assessment of the need for a nursing home in connection with the application for entry, it will not be appropriate to grant an authorisation to dissociate the dwelling unless the need has changed significantly over time. In any case, no dispensation should be made of cows' dwellings situated in tuna areas or adjacent to the boundaries of cultivated land. The dwelling becomes a freely negotiable property after demarcation and there is experience that individual estates with such location cause significant agricultural disadvantages. In general, I believe that municipalities should carefully consider whether the disaggregation of individual plots in agricultural areas causes operational and environmental disadvantages which would make it appropriate to refuse sharing. We have seen many examples that good agricultural areas have gradually been built with housing and that the basis for farming has been made difficult. The assignment of individual premises should be based initially on an overall plan, as part of processes under the Planning and Building Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-16-lower.ana.ud244e1319	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-16-lower.ana.ud244e1328	Odelstingen goes to voting in case No. 1 to 4.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-16-lower.ana.ud244e1336	During the debate, three proposals were put forward by Kenneth Svendsen on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-16-lower.ana.ud244e1366	There is an alternative proposal, proposal No. 1, from the Party of Advancement, from the Right Party, from the Christian Party, and from the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Sections 2 to 4 The notification of critical circumstances in the first and second subparagraphs of the activity shall be replaced by the following: The worker is entitled to inform the public of critical facts in the establishment However, alerts may not be made for injury purposes, nor may the employee unlawfully disclose business secrets, business relationships of significant competitive importance, or matters covered by the obligation of professional secrecy. [[1]] [[2]] The employee must first have alerted internally, unless the conditions of the employee have appeared so that internal warning will have no purpose.»
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-16-lower.ana.ud244e1398	The President would like to make a reference to proposal No. 2, from the Party of Advancement, from the Right Party, from the Christian Party, and from the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Sections 2 to 4 new fourth paragraph shall be replaced by the following:The employer may not undertake investigations or other measures to clarify who is behind an alert, unless the employer can demonstrate that there is reason to believe that the opinion or warning goes beyond the framework resulting from this provision.’;
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-16-lower.ana.ud244e1416	I voted wrong. I voted against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-16-lower.ana.ud244e1423	Then it's 36 votes for and 40 against.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-16-lower.ana.ud244e1426	President, I also voted incorrectly.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-16-lower.ana.ud244e1433	Then we'll have to vote again.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-16-lower.ana.ud244e1482	There is an alternative proposal, proposal No. 3, from the Party of Advancement, from the Right Party, from the Christian Party, and from the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘§ 3-6 Obligation to facilitate alerting shall be read as follows:The employer shall, in the context of systematic health, environmental and safety work, develop internal warning procedures or implement other measures to facilitate internal warning of critical conditions in the activities within the framework of Sections 2 to 4, if the conditions of the activities so warrant.’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-16-lower.ana.ud244e1553	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-16-lower.ana.ud244e1563	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-16-lower.ana.ud244e1571	Three proposals have been made during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Ib Thomsen, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, on the right and left motion No. 3, from Vera Lightcloth on behalf of Left
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-16-lower.ana.ud244e1737	There is an alternative proposal, proposal No. 1 from the Party of Advancement, Right and Left. The proposal reads as follows: «In Act No. 25 September 1992 No. 107 on municipalities and counties are amended as follows:§ 24 paragraph 2 shall be replaced by the following:The Administrative Board and the County Council may decide for themselves that senior administrative posts shall be filled for annual purposes. 4 becomes a number. 3.’» [[municipal law]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-16-lower.ana.ud244e1831	The party of progress has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-16-lower.ana.ud244e1873	The party of progress has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-16-lower.ana.ud244e1953	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-16-lower.ana.ud244e1963	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-16-lower.ana.ud244e2012	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-16-lower.ana.ud244e2022	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-16-lower.ana.ud244e2160	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-16-lower.ana.ud244e2170	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-16-lower.ana.ud244e2198	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word under Section 37(a) of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
