ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e28	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 2 hours and 5 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 45 minutes, Progress Party 25 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Center Party 10 minutes and Left 10 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers of each party group and five lines with replies after the contributions of members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e39	Initially, I would like to thank the Committee for its good work and not least for its good cooperation. This approach reflects the policy lines and provides a good basis for the government’s work on industrial policy challenges. On behalf of the majority body, I recommend the nomination of the Committee. I suppose the other parties will take up their proposals in the matter. Economic activity is increasingly characterised by increasing rates of change, greater diversity and different needs. Competition between enterprises and between nations is about the ability to convert and the pursuit of competitive advantage. Nutrituring policy needs to be geared in a completely different way than before towards identifying Norwegian advantages and strengthening them through the choice of food policy instruments. The establishment of major State investment companies/UCITS, which, together with private actors, can strategically invest in Norwegian companies with international potential, would be such an industrial policy instrument. For the centre party, this will be an important follow-up to the ownership message. The NOx fee has been disputed. I am very pleased that in the financial situation there was a majority that businesses and businesses, as an alternative to the NOx tax, could enter into binding environmental agreements with the country in order to reduce NOx emissions. This type of cooperation between the country and the business community should and must form a model for other mechanisms to reduce climate change emissions in the future, while at the same time safeguarding business interests. Norwegian agriculture is the main task of producing safe and pure food for Norwegian consumers. A viable Norway requires a viable agriculture. It involves agriculture where there is room for both small and large units and where local diversity and creativity are encouraged. Effective import protection is a fundamental prerequisite for a national agricultural policy. Foreign processing threatens not only Norwegian agriculture but also important jobs in the food industry. All countries have the right and moral duty to defend their own food supply and to ensure a variety of agriculture that makes this possible. It is important that the Ministry of Agriculture has put this high on the agenda and announced or taken action against foreign processing. With this budget, the Ministry of Agriculture has reintroduced forest policy, a policy that was largely abandoned by the previous government. The changes in the Forest Fund scheme will stimulate the implementation of long-term investment in industry and increase the yield. The organisations of forestry are in favour of this change in policy. However, the change in the forest fund scheme is a general measure with the greatest impact where forest conditions are best and there are active forest owners. I am pleased that the majority are in favour of a change in the allocation of funds in forestry in this situation, so that a greater share is allocated to those countries where the potential for logging is greater, for example. to coastal forest management and parts of the rural forest management, in particular targeting small forest owners and cooperation actions between them. The government will ensure long-term national right to rule over our marine resources and our marine areas. The fishing resources belong to the Norwegian people in common. No individual or individual company may or shall be granted exclusive rights to harvest those resources free of charge while others are excluded from fishing. The management of fishing resources is and shall be a national responsibility. In the area of the Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs, I would like to highlight in particular the priorities of the Government in order to strengthen the confidence and legitimacy of the Norwegian-Russian administrative regime and the great work of reinforced resource control and port State control in the north. Norway has for many years been facing very extensive problems with unregulated fishing in the Barents Sea. Large quantities of fish are taken illegally, with consequent negative environmental and not least quota and economic consequences. This goes directly beyond Norwegian fishermen and their quotas and, of course, their economy. I am very pleased with the increased budgetary and legal efforts of the Ministry of Fisheries in this area. Furthermore, I would like to say that I am very pleased that the majority of the committee wants to increase the provisions for leadership grants, by decomposing up to 5 million. to this end within the framework of the marine valuation programme. This shall be in addition to a provision of 50 million. kr to grants for nutrient measures in fisheries. Increased leadership grants are important to ensure reception structures and provide a good framework for coastal fleets in the future. Here, too, this government is turning on the policy of the previous government. Finally, good industrial policy, growth and competitiveness depend on a responsible economic and fiscal policy, based on predictability and long-termity of instruments and measures. Nutrient development and increased value creation are necessary to maintain the welfare community and contribute to high employment and housing in all parts of the country. This budget contributes to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e78	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e81	The representative Lars Peder Breck has extensive experience in the fishing industry. That is why I am interested to hear what he thinks about some views that have emerged in this Chamber. The representative Steinar Gullvåg, one of Breck's closest partners, said the following in a debate here in Stortinget on Tuesday 28 November: ‘The fishing boatowners have looked firmly at their own wallets and say straight away that they feel no responsibility for life and settlement in the many fisheries-dependent communities along our coast. They're against district quotas, because they think they might lose something on it themselves. [[...]] The fishing boats are themselves more than enough!’ Are these views supported by the representative Breck?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e93	I want to express myself a little more nuanced than what was said in the quotation to which the representative Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr refers. I also know that the representative Steinar Gullvåg has different views on this than on what the short quotation implies. It's important that we have a sea fishing fleet. It is important that we have a sea fishing fleet that also takes responsibility for employment and jobs, both on board boats and along the coast, and it is not least important that we have a sea fishing fleet to ensure sovereignty, especially in the North and North Seas. The sea fishing fleet has been leading the way in many areas. We should be pleased to see this, both in relation to collegiate fishing and regulation, and in order to bring this into harmony with the other countries. I think we should take that with us. But the sea fishing fleet has recently expressed itself unyanished. I think that is the basis for the statements of the representative, Mr Gullvåg.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e102	It is stated in the Government Declaration and in the budget that the State will become a far more active owner in Norwegian business. In addition, the government has promised a new, strengthened acquisition law, notified increased costs to companies making conversions, and suggested a duty to sell in cases where businesses are laid down. In addition, the government’s representatives have called for political intervention in individual cases, in enterprises where the government is owned, such as the United Kingdom. the sale of Telenor Satellite Services or the possible sale of Telenors Information in 1881. Some have asked for purchase in SAS and in Vattenfall, and others have expressed a desire to replace management and board representatives in companies that do not follow so-called political signals. As far as I can see, all of these political promises and plays fell heavily to the ground when the government presented its announcement of ownership last Friday – in the opinion of the Right, a very joyful stomach. Can we expect the red-green deposit representatives to take this into account and that media demands about the role of the state as a business owner go to the end?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e109	It is very interesting that the representative Torbjørn Hansen, as indirectly as he pointed out here, expresses such a positive opinion on the ownership message that has been presented. I agree with Torbjørn Hansen that the ownership message is very good. It gives good political signals about how we should manage the companies, not least about what goals we should have for the different companies, and what goals the state should have for ownership in general. I am concerned that one in this regard is neat in relation to the different companies, that one goes through the general meetings, the business meetings and the boards and exercises ownership in that way. At the same time, however, it is important that the boards of the different companies take the signals that come through the policy design of the ownership message and the governance letters that are to be sent out later.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e116	The system of regional quotas has been a flagship for the government party. The intention of the scheme was good, but implementation seems to be very weak. «Now you see the reality in practice. It goes against a failure, just as expected." It says the fisherman Frank Myklebust from Mehamn to the newspaper Finnmarken November 27. So far, 75 tons of a total quota of almost 3,500 tons has been delivered. Well, it can't be called full target achievement, can it? In the budget setting, the government party says that they will make the arrangement work a little longer before they do anything. My question to the representative is as follows: Is the Central Party willing to start work to find better alternatives instead of letting what we can call political prestige, lock down today's system?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e128	What is the main point of regional quotas – and I think it is important that we take it into account when discussing this measure – is that it is a desire to secure raw materials for companies and areas that have a weak starting point. It is a system that has not been contrary to previous laws, and it is a system that has also been implemented in the past. There has been a lot of dispute about the system, which is correct, as the representative Sørfonn also pointed out. I think we should look carefully at the scheme and evaluate the result when the year is over, to look at both the quantity that has been delivered and how the scheme has worked. It is quite obvious that within the fisheries area we must be willing to look at all the arrangements if they do not work after the intention. I agree that we must also be able to do so in this case. However, the starting point is that we should have instruments to ensure raw materials for disadvantaged enterprises and for disadvantaged regions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e135	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e139	The 2007 budget is a Community budget. This government stands for a new course and a new direction of social development in Norway. Work on all and good Community solutions is important. Business is going well, and unemployment is going down. High oil prices, low interest rates and international growth contribute to large surpluses. Never has there been more employment in this country than it is today. Norwegian business leaders are optimistic and have added more people because they believe in future. Barometra, which measures people’s faith in the future, also shows that most people are optimistic. The goal of the Government’s industrial policy is to have the highest possible value creation in the Norwegian economy, an active industrial policy that strengthens the business community and the community’s interests. It's about creating and sharing, and it's about future business. The food budget is a picture of an active industrial policy: we are investing in innovation, tourism, research and entrepreneurship, we are investing in the north, we are investing in industries where Norway has special advantages, such as the maritime sector, the marine sector, energy and the environment and travel. We also focus on good welfare arrangements and education for the whole population. Otherwise, the enterprises in which the country owns experienced an increase of more than 20 pst. the first six months of this year compared to the first six months of last year. The excess was almost 50 pst. during the same period. But it's not just in the business committee's area that this government budget is good. The municipalities' income will increase monthly with the new government. From 2007 onwards, municipalities will increase their income by DKK 5.4 billion. It means better schooling, better care for the elderly and not least childcare facilities for all, which are unlikely to be important when businesses are to establish themselves in new places. I also want to benefit from a little bit of nutrition research. In the State budget, the government has proposed an increase of 219 million. for research in the field of nutrition. A total of more than DKK 1.76 billion has been proposed in the Ministry of Agriculture's budget, which is an increase of 10.6 p.m. Among the key initiatives are participation in international space activities, which are an important part of the Government's R & D initiative. Suggested increase of 158 million. kr. This initiative is an active lever on the right of the future and innovative business development. This is about the technology of the future, and I am impressed by the acute competence of many Norwegian companies in this area, for example. The Horten company Norspace and Kongsberg Satellite Services. The government's investment in this area ensures Norway access to technology and good conditions on the space market. There is a series of contracts and assignments for Norwegian high-tech enterprises both in Europe and Norway. It's proposed 26 million. kr to start up the Gassmaks programme for research into the industrial use of natural gas. The programme will allow for gas-based industrial development and new jobs in the mainland. The nutrition rights of user-controlled research have been proposed to be increased by 20 million. the return of the Research and Innovation Fund. This will make it possible to realize even more good projects. Norway should also be a world-leading nation within maritime research. It is important to contribute to the growth of maritime industries and to securing jobs for Norwegian seafarers. In order to secure jobs, the net pay system for seafarers has expanded from 1 July this year and we have put in place a net pay scheme for Hurtigruta. Innovation Norway is the main innovation promoter of the Government. In the 2007 state budget, we are continuing the strong commitment to Innovation Norway, which we made up for in 2006. Active exploitation of industrial design is an important contribution to boosting innovation and competitiveness in Norwegian business. Travel life is a major area of activity for the Government, followed by a historic strengthening of the budget of 200 million. kr for the profiling of Norway, both abroad and within its own borders. When you're out of the industry itself, it's nice to find out that this is very well received. I would like to say a little about the ownership message. She means that we get a more active grip on state ownership and see a clear and clear change of course in relation to the previous government, which would let state ownership sail its own sea. The country's ownership becomes clearer by clarifying the country's ownership in general and in the individual company. State ownership guarantees the right to dispose of our common natural resources and national anchoring of important companies. The government will ensure a strong public and national ownership. In reality, it is a matter of the State being active and long-term in important Norwegian companies, of the fact that companies in which the State is the owner or the co-owner are to be governed by industrial purposes. It means thinking about long-term, so that a developer can sustain powerful businesses. This shows that the Government has done as they have promised and has set a new course for ownership policy in Norway. The new ownership notice also sets out clear objectives for all companies, where the companies are divided into four categories, depending on their objectives. I am pleased that we have a government that has such clear objectives in ownership policy, as opposed to the opposition. The progress party will sell out most of the public ownership, and the Right wants the state to keep its fingers on most of the barrels that have to do with ownership. There are now major political differences in the view of active state ownership – it should be noted. The government will also introduce new measures to prevent the closure of enterprises, which can reduce the negative impact of the closure of enterprises. This means the introduction of the obligation to notify to the board of directors and the statutory obligation to discuss with them the inclusion of takeovers. This gives us a good tool, which provides greater security for them to add, and that enables companies to take social responsibility. This state budget is also a good budget for agriculture: more investment in organic farming, grazing premiums, green tourism development programmes, strengthening the agricultural development fund, the forestry fund scheme and not least food security. We also have a priority to reduce the fees and fees charged to the Food Authority. The agricultural budget is well received in the industry, and it can be understood when looking at the opposition's draft budget for agriculture. Common to the Right and the Progress Party is that they will cut in support of the peasants. The right's budget proposal includes a proposal to cut agriculture by DKK 1.8 billion. The progress point suggests a cut of DKr 5.8 billion. In other words, they are some of the reasons why it is okay to reduce Norwegian agriculture a lot. Norwegian agriculture is important for many reasons. It plays an important role in the construction and employment of the whole country. Agriculture in Norway also has several functions, such as producing safe food, ensuring food supply and maintaining the cultural landscape. It seems that the last point has passed the Progress Party house. They want to halve the number of farmers in Norway with the foundation to get people away from public transfers. This I think is too simple. I wonder if the Progress Party knows what Norwegian agriculture really means to Norway today. The Progress Party wants market forces to control. In practice, the Progress Party’s proposal actually means the closure of Norwegian agriculture, at least as we know it. Every single year's agricultural work will lose NOK 92,000. Only the strongest areas will be able to operate agriculture. Norwegian society is facing a major challenge when it comes to the need for labour. One of three Norwegian companies is experiencing shortages of professionals. It should be approx. 100 000 job vacancies in the private sector. This is a serious thing about the government. The State budget contains a number of measures, including: measures to increase labour migration. We must also mobilise those outside the labour market in this country. It is also a goal for us that those who work part-time will be able to work full-time. We have one of the world's best-exploited peoples. We need to make better use of this. The government has also recently presented an action plan for integrating and integrating the immigrant population, and one of the objectives is to get the most out of work. Another measure is to take a closer look at the rules for the recognition of foreign education. In addition, the Government has launched a strategy to strengthen the real economy. It will contribute in the long term to building up the skills that business needs. I believe this budget is a good budget for business, and I look forward to continuing to work on business policy in 2007.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e194	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e197	An important part of the Committee's responsibilities is the management of state ownership. For the members of the opposition in the Committee, it has been a challenge to deal with all the contributions made by members of the Government Parties or Government on how government ownership should be managed. The latest version of what the Government believes this has just been presented in a ownership message. In contrast to what one should believe, neither is this clarifying as to what the Government wants with its ownership. The signals on the ethical guidelines to be used for the state-owned whole or jointly-owned companies have already created confusion among the government parties and thus for the companies. Can the representative Eldegard clarify to Stortinget whether the new ethical guidelines for companies could create problems for current and future repurchase agreements that Norway has or will enter into with companies around the world?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e208	Firstly, I would like to tell the representative Kåre Fostervold that the ownership message expresses very clear objectives regarding ethical guidelines and multidisciplinary wishes for our companies. I can confirm that the ownership message provided has no impact on what the Ministry of Defence does in connection with the purchase of Norwegian aircraft. I assume that was what the representative Fostervold wanted to ask me about, after the debate that the Newspaper has brought up in connection with this. What is presented in the ownership message will not mean any changes in that context.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e215	Because we live in an increasingly globalised society, industrial policy that is being pursued must stimulate conversion and urban development in conditions that are competitive compared to our neighbouring countries. The key to increased investment in research and innovation. So what does the government do? Well, it starts its dubious career by taking a break in just the important research policy. The government is putting on brakes where it is most forward-looking to bet in order for Norwegian business to be able to compete in tough competition with other innovative countries. The government is far behind in research, and it's also cut at SkattenFUNN. My question is, what does the government want us to do to achieve the 3 pst research goal? in relation to gross domestic product by 2010 and will the Government correct the fault cuts and give gas to the internal oscillation and further develop the important TAX FUNN scheme?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e224	First of all, I want to say that in some areas, research has been reduced. But if the representative Røbeck Nørve listened to my post, she heard me say that we have a great commitment to nutrition research, which is also very important for the globalised business community and for new jobs here in the country, which has an increase of over 10 p.m., which is actually important for the Right Party to remember. Ho nemner SkatteFUNN. It's a good order. We're all for TreasureFUNN. The system is to be evaluated, but I can say that I am sure that it will be passed on to very many small and medium-sized enterprises that will benefit from research and development by means of the TaxFUNN model. And yes, the government has a target of 3 pst. research by 2010. I can promise the representative Røbekk Nørve that we will press for it to be implemented.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e229	In the last year, central speakers from the Red-Greens, who are constantly stressing that they have multiple numbers in the Stortinget and are thus able to do whatever they want, have come forward with large government acquisitions of businesses. It relates to the ownership of Norwegian Forest, the purchase of all axles on private hands in Telenor, the purchase of axles in SAS and heavy purchases in the woodworking industry. My question will then be: Since no signal has been given about this cork in the budget setting or in the ownership message, the representative Eldegard can confirm that these plays are really the current red-green policies to be implemented, or whether we are witnessing, more about verbal demonstration trains from internal opposition politicians in the plural coalition.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e236	First, I want to tell you what we wrote in the ownership message about this. There we have written that we should keep the state ownership at about the same level as today. That means we're not going to have a hall. We also withdraw all powers to the hall that were from the previous government, so that it is clear. It is such that in the ownership message there is nothing about buying. The government has per cent Today, there are no clear alternatives to buying, but it must be allowed for individual politicians to have wishes and ideas about what they can imagine to be buying up by the State.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e243	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e246	I notice that there is some impatience in the committee after starting the process of ownership notification. It may be well and good, but I think at least I'm going to start my post with something more ground-based, namely agricultural policy. I agree with what Lars Peder Breck, chairman of the committee, said that business is facing an increasing pace of change. At least it does not happen in the agricultural sector. In 1990 there were almost 100,000 farmers in Norway. Today it's less than 50,000. I don't know if it goes under case information, but the Progress Party has not been in government in these years. Nevertheless, the number of farmers has been reduced by about 50,000. At the same time, more is produced. The land area cultivated is the same. This means that the land area that becomes vacant when a farmer ceases to operate, is either rented out or purchased by others. This shows that the market is working. At the same time, transfers to the agricultural sector have increased. This year, it's about. NOK 12 billion only in transfers and NOK 9 billion in customs protection. During the same time period, the number of agricultural bureaucrats has increased to approx. 10,000. Then you can ask some questions about why development is like this. If you think about it a little bit, every farmer gets 223,000 dollars above the state budget. At the same time, figures from the Norwegian Institute of Agricultural Economic Research show that last year the average farmer earned NOK 173 300. So the average bond is going to get $50,000 more in support than he does. It's pretty interesting numbers to play with. This means that there is a need for a strong review of the whole system. I would assume that politicians from the other parties here in the Chamber have to ask themselves some questions. Do we have too many farmers in Norway? If the answer is no, it must mean that there are too few transfers, and in that case, how many billion more are to be transferred to the agricultural sector? Or: Is the price of consumers too low? So we live in a country that has the highest transfers to the agricultural sector, and we have the highest prices. I think any Communist regime would have been green with envy at the policy of agriculture. I think there is a need for a new policy. At the same time, I just want to remind you that the red-green politicians a year ago went on torches and used big words and engaged themselves violently when the Union factories were about to shut down. There were 300 workplaces. Today's agricultural policy is equivalent to ten times more than the Union. Approximately 3000 annual works are closed annually in the agricultural sector. Then I ask myself, where is Gerd-Liv Valla? Where's Stoltenberg? Where's Kristin Halvorsen? In the case of the Union, they went on trains, but in the case of Norwegian agricultural policy, they are absent. They sit quietly and watch thousands of jobs disappear. What Norwegian agriculture needs is a new policy, a policy that takes those who want to operate, seriously, not a policy that is based solely on giving them the greatest possible transfer. Looking at food production on land and at sea, the Norwegian fishing industry is a non-subsidized industry. It's been through a hell of a horse cure. The industry has been subsidised in the past, but a horse-riding course has been carried out that has been absolutely necessary, just to reduce overcapacity, both at sea and overcapacity on land. Norwegian fishing industry is going reasonably well, especially if you look at the export figures. At the same time, however, industry is still struggling, and some groups of vessels are struggling with marginal profitability. It is an industry that is extremely competitive. It is an industry that faces barriers to trade, from the EU, from the United States and from Russia, in the form of customs duties. It is also an industry that has a major problem with illegal fishing. It affects fishing boats, it affects farms, and it also affects coastal communities. I'm excited about the last two things we're going to deal with in this room, whether there are really some parties that are going to vote against the proposals of the Progress Party. It's big values that are at stake. That's about. One and a half billion dollars in first-hand values. Comparing the fishing industry with other industries, the petroleum industry receives tax incentives to start a development project. Snow White is a good example. When you take an active approach to industrial policy, you see what you can really get out of it. In the case of Snow White, there are contracts for approximately 22 billion kroner with Norwegian companies. Of this, approx. 6 billion went to small businesses. It shows that if you really want to, you can make a big deal out of this hall for business. I just want to remind you that when we treated the Snow White extension, SV and large parts of the Workers' Party went against it. If you look at the shipping industry, you have net wages, the powerful industry has power agreements, and agriculture has DKK 21 billion in subsidies. The fishing industry is faced with demands, charges, regulation, intensification, universality and district allowances – which nobody really wants. I am not going to use the word pointlessly about this, because it is not going to be done from this pulpit, but it is at least totally incomprehensible to me that one can put in place such a system and stand firm on it. Then, of course, you also have the NOx fee, which has been met with a massive protest from the industry. I am not going to spend as much time on the NOx tax, but I just want to show that in terms of what flows – as in the fishing industry – a fee is introduced. If you drive a car – i.e. on land – you do the opposite, you do the premiere of cars that release NOx. This shows that, in addition to everything else, there is a hopeless environmental policy in this area. The problem is that the government is steering by the Soria Moria Declaration of Adventures. For the Norwegian fishing industry, the Soria Moria declaration is a nightmare. I hope that after 2009 it will be possible to awaken the industry from the nightmare it is in. I'll say a little about some of the suggestions made by the Progress Party in the vote. One proposal concerns the full net pay scheme for Hurtigruta. I just want to remind you that we had the same proposal last year. Then both the state councils and the red-green parties here in the hall argued that it was not possible to introduce a net pay scheme for Hurtigruta. So one year later, it's possible. In fact, I expect that both the Minister of Industry and the Red-Greens can now explain what has changed in the last year. We sent a number of letters to clarify this, whether there was something to prevent it from being introduced, and we have got some answers back. So it's going to be interesting to see what's going to be the argument right there. We are aware that the introduction of the net pay scheme also leads to some distortion of competition in relation to other industries, such as industry. the fishing industry. For this reason, I would like to point out that, in the context of the treatment of the budget, we proposed to increase the fishing deduction from 80 000 kroner to 150 000 kroner – following a call from the Norwegian Fisheries Team. Unfortunately, we note that the other parties do not want to support our proposal this time. But since the introduction of net pay for Hurtigruta has been reversed, we have the hope that the Progress Party will be able to meet on that proposal as well. We're assuming that the other parties are going to take it up in the context of the revised state budget. Finally, I would like to take up the proposal of the Advance Party in the vote, where we stand alone, and where we stand with other parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e293	The representative of Øyvind Korsberg has taken up the suggestions to which he referred. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e299	I noticed that the representative of Korsberg used the term ‘interesting numbers to play with’ when he came into the agricultural policy. And that's probably exactly what the Progress Party has done, when they again hit a blow for depopulation of Norwegian villages. But it was really the fisheries policy I was going to get closer to. Now we hear that the proponents of the Progress Party are fighting a blow to the fight against black fishing. The Progress Party has just rejected a legislative proposal that has guaranteed us sanctions against black fishing, while at the same time cutting the budget of the Ministry of Fisheries, which affects control measures both at sea and on land. Now I think the representative of Korsberg should explain the context of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e306	I'll do that. First of all, the law we dealt with in Odelstinget was a framework law. We believe that this is such an important matter that we want concrete legislative proposals for consideration in Stortinget. The second is that such a law could be made especially for Norway. For us it is important to introduce an international law for an international problem, it must work all over the world. It is not beneficial that Norway is the best in the class in this area as well. We believe that the most important measure we can take to prevent overfishing is to strengthen the Coast Guard. That is where overfishing takes place, out in the sea, that control must be. And we'd like to strengthen the Department of Fisheries. But to be honest, I don't think it's exactly the bureaucrats who are going to stop overfishing in the Barents Sea, it's the Coast Guard, and there you have to enforce the legislation that you're set to manage. So we suggested raising the Coast Guard by 110 million. kr. That's a lot more than 17 million. kr with which the government came boisterous.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e317	I would like to ask the representative of the Progress Party how they look at the opportunities for small communities affected by large business closures. In the context of the budget, the Progress Party has stated that it is opposed to the special treatment of individual municipalities and to the means of conversion. They also want to put down e.g. The Narvikphones/Bedin, which provide guidance to those who will try to start new business. From my point of view, I see a difficult situation in which those who are hit hard have no alternative but to pack together and leave the house and home and move to another place. What kind of solution does the Progress Party see on this?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e322	The most important thing to do for business, whether it is located in smaller places or in more central areas, is to provide a generally good framework and ensure that the value creation of an enterprise remains in the enterprise — in other words, to do something that is certainly totally unknown to SV, namely lower the level of taxes and charges. These are the most important grips. The representative of Kvalvik will experience the time she gets to be a staggering representative and is traveling in the districts, that the demand from the business community there is to bet on transportation. It's important to notice. When you talk about transportation, it's not about rail, it's about road investment, both in terms of maintenance and race protection. And SV hasn't exactly been the party that has gone into the rush to increase transfers to transportation, which would help business out in the district quite radically.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e329	The representative of Korsberg today repeats in his speech that there are about 10,000 agricultural bureaucrats in the country. I want to ask Korsberg to explain a little bit about how he gets to 10,000. I know that according to St.prp. No 1 for 2006-2007, there are 1 750 jobs in the agricultural administration at the centre. In 1992 it was 2063. If you put on some hundred in the county, you might get into 2,000 and well. In research, there are about 1,000 pieces. Research is not part of the bureaucracy, but if one is still kind to the Progress Party and takes them along, one comes up to 3,000. Then there's one left with 7,000, and then I ask, how many of them work in the municipalities? It might be interesting to get an answer. If you divide it by 435 municipalities, you're going to get 17 pieces. In this context, one might ask Korsberg if it is realistic that there are 17 pieces in all Norwegian municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e334	I'm not going to go good for the last number, but it might not be completely unimaginable. It was a little joke. About 10,000 -- yeah, I think that's a number that's pretty correct. And that's the way to run and count these bureaucrats. But the most important thing here is that, despite the fact that there have been fewer farmers – and so there have been larger transfers – it seems that bureaucracy is not getting smaller. You can count in the department, you can count in the county municipalities, you can also count in Innovation Norway, and you can count in the various public tools, and you can get a number. When you've counted it together plus all of the people who sit out in the municipalities, I think that number is closer to 10,000 than the number that Lars Peder Breck wants to believe in.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e341	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e344	Right-wing wants a business policy that contributes to safe jobs, value creation and private and public welfare. Enterprise policy must be forward-looking and adapted to a globalised world in order to provide the best possible basis for private and public welfare in the years to come. Enterprise policy covers many policy areas and a broad range of instruments. In fact, the main instruments are located in departments other than those under the Trade Committee. The right is concerned that the different policy areas need to move in the same direction as regards value creation. Developments in the Norwegian economy are crucial for many enterprises. The experience of 2002 and 2003 was that strong rates of crowns and high interest rates pushed out thousands of jobs, and many enterprises went out of business. This particularly affected rural jobs, which are more export-oriented than urban jobs. There is currently a high pressure in the Norwegian economy, and the Right is concerned that the Government does not have the power to keep a better hold on the use of money at the top of a high economic cycle. To spend 800 million. In addition to the rule of action, when the tax billions are substantially inflows into the treasury, it is primarily a poor business policy. The right has chosen to spend SEK 1.3 billion less than the government to secure competitive jobs, and the right is spending money in a way that creates less pressure in the economy. This is a fundamental element of a good and forward-looking industrial policy. Tax policy is important for Norwegian businesses. The right notes that the government is increasing the taxes by far all except the farmers. To this end, the right-hand side promotes proposals that strengthen competitiveness, including: relief from generation settlement inheritance tax, lower property tax in order to strengthen private Norwegian ownership and higher depreciation rates for machinery in industry. Neither tax policy nor other business policy is about giving gifts to the richest in the country, as the left believes, but about creating safe jobs and a basis for future well-being. In the 2007 budget, the government is taking a break from research policy. This is a regrettable and obvious breach of promise. There is too low an increase in the Research Fund and, in addition, there is a cut in the SkatteFUNN scheme and a cut in higher education. The FUNN tax scheme stimulates business research. Therefore, the cutting of the rest is affecting both public and private research. The right grants more for research, more for higher education and reverses the cut-off of the SkattenFUNN scheme. It is unfortunate that the Government undermines the possibility of using highly qualified and thus highly paid personnel for research in the TaxFUNN scheme. This is a clear breach of commitment to business, and it is very unfortunate that the tax FUNN scheme is weakened one year before the evaluation. It's a very unfortunate signal. Right-wing wants a more active use of the instrument in research efforts towards business and increases the award of research and development contracts by 50 million. kr compared to the Government’s proposal. In these projects, Innovation Norway contributes about a quarter of the research cost. The rest is covered by the enterprises. Projects are in areas such as ICT, workshop technology, oil and offshore, material technology and health. Such research contributions are targeted and contribute to creating income and jobs for the future. In the Right's alternative budget, there is also an investment in road construction through NOK 611 million more in the allocation and establishment of a road fund of DKK 20 billion. The Road Fund will provide an annual return of approximately $800 million. kr. This is an important contribution for a business that has major long-range challenges and high transport costs. The right-hand alternative state budget also contains a number of measures to improve access to labour. The lack of labour is a key challenge for industry in the future, and a policy that both mobilises the Norwegian labour force and increases access to skilled foreign labour. Enterprise policy is more than measures under Innovation Norway and sectoral measures on fish and agriculture. The main tools are economic policy, competition policy, research, road construction, labour market, energy and education. As a business politician, I am very proud and pleased that the Right's Alternative Budget has a comprehensive value creation focus, including for areas under committees other than the Business Committee. Travel life is important for the country, and especially in a district policy perspective. Travel life is growing and is taking over many places for out-of-farm employment. The right believes that the investment in travel life needs to be strengthened. The investment in international marketing started under the Bondevik II government with a proposal for an increase of about 70 pst. in the budget for 2006. The budget increase was a follow-up to the action plan for the tourism industries, which was promoted in the summer of 2005. The current government continued its investment in 2006 as proposed and increased by 20 million. kr in 2007. The right considers that there is a need for faster progress and increases the marketing of Norway by 50 million. In addition to the Government's proposals in our budget option. The Economic and Social Committee is responsible for the fisheries policy. The fishing industry means a lot to the activity along the coast, as well as to the income of the large community. The maritime industry is highlighted as one of the five priority industries in the Government Declaration. It is therefore striking that the fisheries policy has become the purest area of conflict in the last year. One would think that being a priority industry had a positive impact. Unfortunately, priority for the Government is primarily identical to regulation. Its more priority, its more regulation. The government seems to believe that you can regulate yourself to new jobs. The reality is the opposite: increased regulation in the form of district quota schemes and unrealistic delivery obligations leads to reduced competitiveness and, in the long run, fewer and no more jobs. The structural freeze for the fishing fleet means lower standards, which means lower profitability and weaker recruitment. The net pay system for a competing shipping industry also undermines the recruitment and profitability of the fishing industry. The proposal on the NOx fee shows that the Government would not initially cross two sticks to prevent the massive closure of the Norwegian fishing industry and of the fishing fleet, and shows that the fishing industry does not have strong enough figures in the government parties. The new fisheries policy is a breach of the consensus line that has been in Norwegian fisheries policy for the past 20–25 years. In my view, the government should establish a new dialogue with the industry as soon as possible and organise this important part of coastal economic policy. The right also wants to contribute to continued growth in the aquaculture industry, and therefore proposes to distribute ten new concessions based on a closed bidding round following the same model as the Government uses in Finnmark. In the long term, special Norwegian aquaculture production restrictions which are not based on environmental conditions should be removed. Agriculture is important for Norway, both in terms of scattered housing, food supply and in relation to the cultural landscape. Right-wing wants a more forward-looking agricultural policy. There is little doubt that agriculture is oversubsidized, it is overregulated, and it is weakened by the lack of real property rights. Most agricultural policy objectives can be achieved at a lower level of transfers and it is fully possible for many farmers to operate with greater profitability if the framework conditions are gradually deregulated and ownership strengthened. For the Right, it is important that industrial policy should contribute to maximising value creation. This makes it necessary to maintain the level of subsidies to an agricultural sector that will receive almost DKK 20 billion in transfers and protection aid in 2007. Right-wing wants farmers who have creativity and a high level of competence to have good chances of success. Reforms in agriculture must be gradual and must be based on current policies with their regulations, their strengths and their many weaknesses. Competition and consumer policy has, in the opinion of the Right, been one of the major disappointments of the government change. The government seems to systematically downgrade consumer concerns. This applies in relation to the review of the merger ban of the Competition Authority and in relation to restrictions imposed by the Ministry of Agriculture and Food. It is a paradox when even Norwegian sheep farmers are hit by new frontier barriers to meet an otherwise uncompetitive product from Tine. It is also quite rare to observe the Ministry of Agriculture and Food's attack on the Competition Authority's decisions relating to cheese imports. In the dairy sector, independent operators are exposed to both extraction tactics and clean skin processes. The meat industry feels that the framework conditions for the foreign processing of Norwegian raw materials, adopted as late as 2005, are suddenly being tightened up. In total, competition policy and agricultural policy are taking a serious step in the wrong direction for consumers and for business. In the right, we are delighted that the government is breaking many election vows. We were particularly enthusiastic last Friday, when the government broke the promise to introduce a new, reinforced acquisition law, and dropped the idea of increased costs for companies that are converting, and the possible introduction of sales obligations. We are pleased that the government parties realize that a so-called much more active state ownership policy is also not a good idea. The right considers that such instruments prevent the relocation and creation of jobs in Norway, and we note that the Government is now making sense on such issues. Enterprise policy is characterised by a strong economic boom in the country. I'm recording that the government wants to take credit for this boom. It's probably a little early. It is only in 2007 and 2008 that the consequences of this government’s economic policy become visible. In the right, we are concerned that, in good times, we should not lay the foundation for bad times, but rather invest in order for the rise to continue. At this point, we believe that the government should think further. More investment should be made in research and knowledge, more money should be spent on road construction, more focused on the availability of skilled labour and better framework conditions for businesses. Values must be created before they can be used. This is Højre's main message in business policy. I will address the proposal from the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left in the vote. I will also refer to the proposals of the Christian People's Party, No. 16, which has been distributed in the Chamber, and request that this proposal be put to the vote after proposal No. 5 if the same theme may have fallen.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e401	The representative Torbjørn Hansen has taken up the suggestion he made. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e406	The question I have to the representative Torbjørn Hansen from the Right is the following: The Progress Party proposes dramatic cuts in agriculture, cuts that I believe are unrealistic. What requirements will the Right make to a future government partner in relation to reality in relation to agriculture?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e414	I am not going to go into the attitude of the Progress Party in agricultural policy. But I would like to say that once we have implemented our cuts in agricultural transfers, we have gone as far as we thought it would make sense in relation to a gradual change in agricultural policy. We also stress that when such a change is made and the level of transfer is reduced, farmers' incomes need to be strengthened by deregulating support systems so that they can operate more efficiently, and agricultural ownership needs to be strengthened so that greater value can be derived from farms. So we believe that we need to build on today's agricultural policy and gradually reform it so that we can maintain strong agriculture and maintain the production that is in agriculture today. However, there is little doubt that there are considerable opportunities for efficiency in agriculture. The question is how do you want it to look in the future. Otherwise, I think it's a little early, what the representative Kvalvik is asking about, to advance possible government negotiations in the next major period. That question I think we'll come back to ‘at a later date’, as it is called.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e421	The representative Torbjørn Hansen and others from the Right have been very concerned about the competition in the milk sector, and they have in the setting up, among other things. proposed to pay conversion grants to Q-Meierien of 9,5 million. kr. What is also apparent from the observations in the same chapter is that the majority, with the exception of the members of the Progress Party and the Right, record the conflicts that the changes in the dairy sector have created, but do not want to support the fact that increased competition should not go beyond the producer price. My question to the representative Torbjørn Hansen is: How far is the Right willing to go in reducing the prices of producers, i.e. farmers, on the milk? How much power is this reduction to give in relation to the number of uses to be closed?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e426	Competition in the dairy sector is important for Norwegian consumers. There is a need for a diversity of products, and it is good that there is competition for the industrial development of milk. But there is also little doubt that it must be an advantage for farmers that industry is competing to process their products. There is little doubt that competition in industry can also have an effect on increasing the volume of the goods being traded. As for the representative Brekk's question about how far we are willing to go into the producer price by ensuring a level playing field in the dairy sector, I would say that the answer to that is that we need to be able to compete in the dairy sector without going beyond the target prices that currently apply to agriculture. I think it's quite possible to do that if the government has a real willingness to make real competition, and stops treating the independent actors as a kind of subject in the Norwegian dairy industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e431	I understand that both in the opening here today and in the remarks in the budget setting, the Right is concerned that the Government has created an expansive budget that will weaken the Norwegian economy and competitiveness of Norwegian businesses. But it's actually the way the Ministry of Finance has refuted it. The Ministry of Finance says that the Right's budget will not make significant differences in activity and interest rate levels compared to the Government's budget. Of course, I wonder if Right wants to comment on it. In addition, I think that the Right has said that they will eventually join an alliance with the Advance Party, which has a further cost of NOK 23 billion in relation to the Government's budget proposal, so I want to ask the representative from the Right about this.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e436	I have to admit that I have not read all the answers from the Ministry of Finance on this issue, but there is usually little doubt that if you are on a tighter budget framework, as the Right does in the budget of the year, it will have a less pressurised effect in the Norwegian economy. Then you can discuss the impact of spending 1.3 billion dollars on the budget. It is possible that the difference is not very large, but the right one indicates a direction in economic policy which we believe should have been taken by the government, that oil money should be used more restrictively when in high economic conditions, and where there is a real danger that interest rates will rise, and that the exchange rate will be strengthened. With regard to the Right's cooperation aspects in relation to other parties, I stress that in this budget we have promoted our own policies, and that the Right will in any case be a guarantor of a responsible economic policy in this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e443	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e446	The harvest budget is historic, and it has two reasons. Never before has so much SV policy been implemented, and never before has there been so much good industrial policy on any government budget. I am very pleased with the budget, and then I am thinking in particular about the billions spent on trains, on kindergarten construction, on the changes in car charges in a more environmentally friendly direction, on research and innovation efforts, on the development of cleaning technology in Mongstad, on forestry, on cultural level and on free learning material, to mention something. And then also the Progress Party can sharpen its ears: we have an effort on the way that's formidable, it's been 15 years since we've spent so much on the way. I'm proud of what we've achieved. These are policies that show that the government parties in the field are able to find concrete and forward-looking solutions that combine good business policies in terms of the environment and justice. Economic policy extends over a wide range of fields. It makes the area interesting, important and challenging. Business policy goes far beyond the framework areas 9, 10 and 11, for which the Business Committee has a specific responsibility. But I'm choosing to raise some things. The State budget for 2007 establishes a new maritime value creation programme for fisheries, with a framework of 75 million. kr. The provision of fresh fish, labelling and traceability, logistics, technology and competences are important areas of activity for this value creation programme. And not least, the program supports processes that make actors throughout the value chain serve out extensive collaboration and interaction. In the 2007 budget, action against environmental crime in the form of the so-called UUU fisheries shall be stepped up. It disappears in terms of values corresponding to a NOKAS run of the week, and the government has given priority to strengthening the control of the large resources that we are going to live on in the future. For nutrient research on the Ministry of Industry and Trade’s budget, there is more than DKK 1.76 billion. It equals an increase of about 10 pst. The instrument is continued at the same high level as in 2006. The animal protection alliance is payable at NOK 100000. Unfortunately, not everyone equally concerned with the priority of animal welfare. The more pleasant it is then for us to be able to say that this money is in place again. I'm very pleased that the government is following up the Soria Moria statement with a commitment to forestry and bioenergy. Forestry has a total production value of approximately DKK 40 billion per year. Around 30,000 people are employed in forestry and forestry. As an SV, it is gratifying that the use of this renewable resource provides such significant value creation in large parts of the country. With proper management, forests will also create environmentally friendly jobs far into the future. The Minister of Agriculture has said that now is the time for forests. I very much agree with that. I am probably not very wrong if I say that it can certainly be signed by both the Minister for Industry and the Minister for Fisheries. Forest and bioenergy investment is increasing. Measures for the innovation and processing of wood products are continued, as is the bioenergy programme. And not least, the tax advantage of using forest funds is also increased from 60 to 85 pst. Agriculture delivers common goods: safe food, living villages and open, well-established cultural landscapes. Agriculture has its own merits, and the farmer and the forest user take a significant social responsibility in a local industry. The farmer cannot take the cow and fly out if he does not agree with the arrangements of the tax policy. In addition to food production and an ever-increasing range of booming complementary industries, the agricultural population is the backbone of large and small rural areas throughout the country. The effort of agriculture is a fundamental prerequisite for success, for example: the great travel effort by which all lots are so engaged. To be quite clear: SV will work successfully to maintain active and varied farming throughout the country. I am also pleased with the message that the Government is actively planning on how the target of 15 pst. organic production and consumption by 2015 shall be achieved. It is also important SV policy. I would then like to take this opportunity to draw attention to one of the Committee's areas of public health and home safety, that is racial and racial policy. We know that climate change leads to warmer and wetter weather, which in turn leads to an increased risk of race. We know that many people already live in coastal areas. Norway's watercourse and energy directorate, Norway's Geotechnical Institute and Norway's geological study have cooperated in a project where they identify more than 300 areas in our country at great risk of clay scaffolding. Both older and more recent history shows the seriousness of this situation. We've learned that race sometimes gets tragic results. That is why a good racial policy is important. And that is why the need for a concerted effort in racial policy is literally vital. We therefore need to work to bring together the efforts that are now taking place, in several departments, in order to achieve a good racial policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e482	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e485	If you read the special comment on the red-greens, it says: ‘The majority are also concerned with investing in the maritime sector, in order to contribute to the growth of maritime industries and to ensure employment for Norwegian seafarers’. There is, of course, something the Progress Party can join. As there was a special remark, there was no way of going into it. On 24 November there was an interpellation debate, raised by the representative Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr, on maritime policy. In that debate, the representative Mr Kvalvik was heavily attacked by the maritime industry and was particularly attacked by the net pay system. Today, therefore, the representative agrees that a partial net pay regime should be introduced for Hurtigruta. So my question is: is SV and the representative Kvalvik for or against net pay arrangements for seafarers?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e497	The representative of Øyvind Korsberg reminds me of a debate that was before this fall. I have to say that in the maritime sector, there is an industry that SV cares for, despite the fact that there has been an attack. The attack has its background in the fact that the Progress Party then until those degrees use energy to propose cuts in the agricultural industry, because it has such large transfers, while we know that the maritime sector receives at least equal support and the same amount of transfers in terms of tax benefits and tonnage tax. The net pay scheme has emerged in this government as a matter that we did not prioritise so high. We thought it had its place in that context – when we got other good things in front.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e504	On the right, it is clear that good business framework conditions are important for Norwegian companies to be able to compete with competing companies in Europe. Norway is among the countries in Europe with the lowest depreciation rates on machines. In order to stimulate business to future investment, the Right believes it is important to increase depreciation rates from 20 to 25 pst. In the election campaign in the autumn of 2005, SV’s most active point in terms of improving the framework conditions for business was precisely the increase in depreciation rates for businesses. SV's Øystein Djupedal was then fiscal spokespersons and made clear promises to increase the rates. My question to the representative Kvalvik will be: Will the Government and SV follow up what they promised in the election campaign, and support the Right's proposal to increase the depreciation rates from 20 to 25 pst. ?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e512	I thank you for the question. Business in Norway is going well. It's as good as it hasn't done before. In this situation, SV thought it was right to give priority to other things in front of the 25 pst depreciation rate, which the representative is quite right to say that we have worked to get. In fact, we believe that business can take it. Having said that, I will refer you to a study that has been carried out, referred to in the Herald Tribune, where it says: the modern welfare state is going across economic development. Norway, Sweden, Denmark and Finland are among the six best countries in the world in terms of setting up new businesses, because we have such good welfare systems and health systems. So even if we have a depreciation rate that's lower than what we first wanted, the welfare arrangements for business have been so good that we say we're satisfied with what we've achieved so far.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e521	In the budgetary position we are discussing now, SV is involved in a criticism of the Left's proposal to cut export aid to cheese through the sales tax, a cut for approx. One hundred and ninety-nine million. kr. I also see that the government parties, including SV, now believe that the Left is with the Right and the Advance Party on a kind of anti-agricultural policy. The Left proposes, however, a cautious version of the SV proposed in its alternative budget in 2005 at the latest, where all export aid was cut, a total cut of 355 million. kr. So the left-hand side does a little bit of the same thing right now. Is it, then, to understand that SV was together with the Progress Party to pursue an anti-agrarian policy in 2005? Is it the case that SV's policy in 2005 is no longer in force in 2007, now that, with the approval of the SV, the Government has actually granted concessions to cut all export aid in the context of WTO negotiations?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e530	I want to assure the representative from the Left, Leif Helge Kongshaug, that the agricultural policy of the SV and the Progress Party is not at all close to each other. Having said that, I would also like to say that the details of the budget in the previous round have some problems in answering concretely and in depth. As stated in the draft budget this year, the SV and the other government parties agree on that comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e537	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e540	A well-functioning, profitable, lack of and active business is a means of securing the well-being of the community, busses and quality of life in the rural and urban areas. Small and medium-sized enterprises are themselves the backbone of Norwegian business. Therefore, it is so crucial that these become certain good life and developmental possibilities. There is a relatively broad political deal about the main features of industrial policy. But we still see a certain red-green rotation in the direction, from a tool use that companies themselves can handle, to a stronger, stately hand. In the budget this year, the tightening-up of the tax FUNN scheme has made it possible for companies to control the facilities from their own research and obtain tax advantages from it. If we want to lift the nutrition research under the direction of the business community and believe that businesses are generally best placed to assess the types of research and development that are most useful to them in the future, it is a bit strange to make such research less lucrative for businesses. The Christian People's Party has therefore opposed these changes to the TaxFUNN scheme. Although there is no direct impact on budget lines on the framework areas adopted by the Business Committee, the framework conditions for family businesses are so absolutely an important theme of business policy. In the Soria Moria statement, the government party says they want to look at how the inheritance fee can be designed to make generational shifts easier in family-owned businesses. This is important, and this is right. But it is also important to move on from a "look at" stage. From the Christian People's Party's side, we have difor, together with the Progress Party, Right and Left, come up with a detailed proposal on how we will make generational shifts in family businesses considerably easier. Unfortunately, we note that the government party chose to continue the role of passive accomplices in this matter. But here I can promise that there will be more trains, so the government will have a new chance. When I first visit the government party, let me continue a bit there. In the Christian People's Party, we have simply recorded that when representatives of the three government parties talk about industrial policy, there are two words that often appear. That's the word "more active". Enterprise policy in general and ownership policy in particular should become ‘more active’. The objective of an active industrial policy will be the same. But the question is, what does this mean in practice? It's a little hard for me to figure out. In 2004 and 2005, the present opposition party and the current government party claimed that a completely different industrial policy was absolutely necessary. In 2006, the same batches present a food budget in three departments of their territory, where primary drug use is continued. Although the ownership message is not a theme today, it is obvious that, after the presentation of the message last Friday, the main principle of state ownership is also established. The idea of more political detailed governance of decisions taken in enterprises with state majority ownership may survive, but above all as verbal demonstration trains, not as practical policies. We can say strongly that the main lines of the business policy of the Bondevik II government are firm. Especially in the maritime sector, the large budget case this year has been introduced by the NOx levy. In our framework area, this matter is represented by the anti-shipping and fishing systems. The government proposal sends shock waves into much of the business world. For the fishing fleet, the proposal would result in heavy additional costs, and for the freight fleet, which had been given a new lifeline because of the net wage scheme, the proposal that the industry’s cargo tag again disappeared far below the waterline. The Christian People's Party (Christian People's Party) has still said that our national commitments to reduce NOx emissions will be one by 2010. But it has always been reasonable to have a good dialogue with the industries that this particularly affects, both to talk about how to achieve the goal, and to listen to good input. The final decision on the NOx tax calls for more dialogue than we saw in the first weeks of the budget presentation. It is open for mandatory environmental agreements to be chargeable. If industry uses this option, as they have said, both tax revenue and compensation contributions will go down compared to what is in the budget. Here we note that even with these changes, the government has chosen to base the original budgets both for tax revenue and for compensation costs. As far as I am concerned, I am somewhat uncertain whether the government itself believes that they will conclude such mandatory environmental agreements. In any case, and that's my point, this gives cause for a certain pending fixation to the reality of these changes. I argued that the Government would provide a more detailed indication of developments in this area in the revised national budget, and then reconsider the scope of the compensation concessions needed. At the beginning of this meeting, the Christian People's Party has submitted a proposal for a reassessment of the district quota system. I will not criticise either the intentions or the ambitions behind this scheme. But experience so far shows that if the system can't be characterised as a belly pad, at least there's been more space in the empty sea than manual results in terms of quota utilization. Speaking of quotas, last year's fishing minister's abrupt halt to the structural quota system has clearly created many more problems than he has solved, not least in terms of uncertainty as to what framework conditions fisheries can expect in the future. This is a matter that calls for clarification. Together with the fact that the fishing industry is struggling to maintain skilled labour, it is no exaggeration to say that the authorities’ main challenge to the fishing industry now is to put in place safe and sustainable framework conditions. This is a capital intensive industry, and decisions on investment are taken on the basis of long-term future assessments. Political action is required here, and the responsibility for initiative lies with the Government. The Christian People's Party's objective of agricultural policy is a viable agriculture across the country and income development in line with other industries. An active agriculture is itself the key to living people and to fulfilling the intention of the whole country to be in use. The Christian People's Party sees stability both in terms of the objectives of agricultural policy and in terms of the main features of the instrument as an important framework for future developments. During the previous ageing period, an agreement was reached with the Landelage on an agricultural agreement every year. It represented itself a fraction of the previous conflict line that was not entirely unusual in the pure working party governments. Things with the agricultural organisations will clearly be demanding even for years to come, but if one in the budget were to intervene and change under conditions that have actually been agreed on in the matters half a year ago, there would be no declaration of war against agriculture, so at least a sharp increase in the level of conflict. I don't think we're done. For this reason, the Christian People's Party is deeply in conflict with the parties that have made such proposals in the budget setting. Following the presentation of the budget on 6 October, the Government Party has made two changes to the budget in our three framework areas. I'll give you the honor for one of the changes. This change is linked to the combined efforts to strengthen voluntary efforts. Here, too, the opportunities for welfare measures for fishermen increased by 1 million. kr. There is no large sum in budgetary context, but when both the position and the opposition are united, there is a strong signal that the volunteer organisations' efforts are highly valued by the government. In the case of the second amendment, which relates to the «New Robbery Policy People's Action», it is tempting to comment on it as well. This privilege must be defined more precisely as an internal peace measure in the government fraction. Here, it's hard to see a principle approach, except for the principle of internal peace at its cost. The Christian People's Party believes that if voluntary organisations related to agriculture first get 1 million. More than what has been proposed by the Government, this should lead to a strengthening of the commitment of several organisations, such as the Commission. 4H. Finally, let me link some words to the joint proposal from the opposition party on the finalisation of the Åknes project in the municipality of Stranda. Just like the other opposition parties, the Christian People's Party is impatient to put in place a good warning system. Of course, living with the threat of a dramatic natural disaster leads to both fear and uncertainty in many. With the promises already given, it should be in everyone's interest that the promises actually result in concrete action. It won't happen until the notification system is in place. I hope, therefore, that the Government will come back to this in the revised national budget – not for the Christian People's Party or the other opposition party, but for the sake of those who live in the areas that could be razed by a wave of rivers if the mountains razed out. With this, I will address the proposals that the Christian People's Party has raised in the vote, and the proposal that was submitted before the start of the meeting today.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e595	The representative of Ingreigt S. Sørfonn has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e600	I thought it was nice that the representative Sørfonn used almost half his post to talk about red-green policy. He should keep doing that. The government has provided a budget with a strong emphasis on value creation and settlement in all parts of the country. From the budget setting we can read that the second party, and especially the former members of the Christian People's Party – the Progress Party and the Right – are focusing on large tax havens and are making major cuts in important policy areas. I can refer to agriculture, as the representative Sørfonn was also a little bit involved, where the Progress Party will cut $5.8 billion, and the Right will cut $1.8 billion. The last one is pretty eye-catching. My question to the representative of Sørfonn will then be: will it be possible for the Christian People's Party to cooperate with the party, such as the People's Party? The Progress Party and, in part, the Right, which now has a completely different policy for primary industries and districts in all parts of the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e609	The Christian People's Party does not have experience in working together in government with the Progress Party, but we have experience working with the Right in government. In government it has not been difficult to find a common policy. The fact that different parties in the opposition are flagging their primary policies is no surprise. What determines whether a policy is successful or not is the will and ability to reach a compromise. I believe that even the representative Upbeøen Hansen's party is well-known in the government of which the party is now part. Otherwise, it is not to hide that when it concerns the agricultural policy of the Progress Party, as he is presented, it is well where the distance between the Christian People's Party and the Progress Party is the greatest in business policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e616	In the position dealing with the Ministry of Fisheries, the Christian People’s Party, together with the Right, the Party of Advances and the Left, has voted for a note stating that ‘a system of district quotas causes an unfortunate distribution of raw materials and causes a conflict between losers and winners on such a scheme’. I would like to ask the representative Ingebrigt S. Sørfonn from the Christian People's Party about the Christian People's Party believes that the fishing industry should pursue district policy objectives, and whether the Christian People's Party is willing to use political governance to achieve district policy objectives. I would also like to ask whether they do not see that regional quotas can contribute to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e623	It is obvious that both the representative Breck and I are busy with district allowances and finding a solution to this, for my reply to the representative Breck was also about the effects of district allowances. The Christian People's Party is most concerned that one should achieve results, not that one should be locked in horses about how things should have been done, but that one should actually test out and see if this works according to the intentions and the measures that one has. When it comes to district allowances, we can't see that this is the case. We have also put forward the proposal, which we think is so soft in shape that we hope it can get broad support today, that one will evaluate the scheme after this year, and perhaps look at whether to wind up the scheme and rather find a different approach to this. Here we still hope for a wide connection.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e630	I have recorded that the Christian People's Party is quite good – yes, after the intervention of the representative Sørfonn very well – in line with the Government in terms of the level and arrangements of agricultural policy, while the Right and Advance Party are against the agricultural agreement, while the two parties will base more unilateral market thinking as a framework for these two industries. In relation to the importance of agricultural policy for the whole of our country, and in relation to the ambitions of the Christian People's Party in agricultural policy and in district policy, I would like the representative Sørfonn to elaborate a little more on how he assesses future cooperative structures in national policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e636	Agricultural policy is one of the most important means of securing living areas and the continued use of the whole country. Hence, the Christian People's Party is very concerned with agricultural policy. I have to admit that the idea might not be what he once was, but I think that from a long time ago, the Workers' Party may not have been the strongest exponent of an agricultural policy as we see it today. So it's obvious that here at least the Labour Party has come into good company, where one has been guided into a good way of agricultural policy. So there are enough people who are slipping over a slightly changed and better line of agricultural policy from the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e643	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e646	The budget areas we are dealing with today are in many ways the areas where it is far from rhetoric to the results of the government’s policy – fortunately, you might say. We were to have an active industrial policy, the ideal of which was a kind of mixed economy from the 1790s, and where the industrial policy of the 1950s was to be a guide. We should have an agricultural policy where the necessary transformation and efficiency have stopped – and what should we get from fisheries policy? Yeah, we might still be wondering about that. The much-mentioned acquisition law with fines in the million-dollar classes for those who cut off profitable businesses was, last Friday, exposed to a notice of ownership by representatives of the government parties for a long time. There was no proposal for fines to convert, there was no proposal for voting rights for employees at general meetings, there was no indication here that the government would intervene in Hydros, Telenors or similar companies' strategic plans that the representatives Lundtägen, Bøhler and Vaggen Malvik did not like. Again, fortunately. The government only operates with symbol changes in ownership message. The large enterprises can mainly continue as before. It is the Share Act and the general healthy business principles that apply, even if it has been incorporated into a rhetoric about a kind of will for governance. What the government has supplied is nothing more than the emperor's new clothes. For the Left, an active enterprise policy, especially towards the many small businesses and entrepreneurs, is one of the most important issues in the policy, because it is the new knowledge-based business that forms the basis for the freedom and well-being of the future, and because it is small businesses and entrepreneurs that best ensure housing and active, exciting communities throughout the country – not a one-sided effort on individual industries. That is why we need an active enterprise policy that understands the dynamics of the globalised economy, and that knows what is required of flexibility, innovation and entrepreneurial culture – not an industrial policy that is itself a limiting factor for development, and that is unlimited in its belief in how well everything should become just the state or the public agency is heavy enough in the decision-making process. There are several common challenges both for the general industry, for agriculture and for the fishing industry: improved infrastructure, increased investment in research and education, access to skilled labour and a business and environmentally friendly tax system. If we're a little nice, we might admit that the government is delivering something in one of four areas: infrastructure. In the other areas, there is little supply. In addition, the effect of an expansive public budget is on interest rates and interest rates. For agriculture, for example: 1 pst. interest rate increase of 250 million. kr in increased costs. It is appropriate to recall that representatives of government parties have written in a number of newspaper articles in the last year about the need to focus on research and development in the absence of other policy tools. The Left fully agrees with the importance of research and development, but in stark contrast to the government's actions, where the proposal for the government budget shows a continued decline in research. This applies both to the tax FUNN scheme and to the framework of research to which industry has to deal. The industrial policy of the left is based on the entrepreneurs and small businesses. This is part of a business policy that is clearly quite distant from the Government’s understanding of industrial policy. This concerns both the debate on leaders, executives' salaries, options, etc. All cut over one comb. What applies to the big ones also applies to the small ones. That's not the reality. A small or medium-sized enterprise is not a large enterprise in miniature. This means that it is important to think small only when new laws and regulations are drawn up and when the tax regime is established. What's good for the small businesses is generally also good for the big ones, but not always the opposite. Good conditions do not come of themselves, it requires wagering. Such a bet is shown again in the alternative budget of the Left. We improve the social arrangements for entrepreneurs and self-employed people to get more women to invest in their own business. We are increasing the investment in research and higher education by over DKK 1 billion, among other things. Eighty million. kr for more entrepreneurial research, and the Left proposes a number of targeted tax reliefs for business. Both rates of depreciation, relief from the inheritance tax, increase in the amount of the purchase of shares in the company itself, half of the employer’s fees for apprentices and double the limits of the amount of the tax FUNN scheme. This is not symbolism policy wrapped in rhetoric about will, but concrete and real industrial policy tools aimed at ensuring a modern and forward-looking business that can ensure well-being in the future. I regret the fact that the government parties believe that the budget entails a clear change of course in the agricultural policy. It's with respect to report impossible to see. In general, the policy pursued by the previous government is firm. It is only to look at the agriculture agreement of May 2006, which is also the main part of the 2007 budget. Both in the offer made by the State and in the agreement agreed by the Stortinget, with the support of the Left, an productivity increase of 4.3 p.p., which has resulted in fewer farmers. In addition, the Government itself considers, as demonstrated by its offer: «In view of the need for predictability in the framework conditions for operators in a long-term industry, the government considers it important to continue the main features of previous measures.» This made the Nations newspaper, which is quite close to the government parties in agricultural policy, write the following May 10th this year: "What do we have here? After all, a government was founded on three parties, of which SV and Sp in particular have been criticising Lars Sponheim and his predecessors for years so that busta is in favour of the structural policy of agriculture and the abandonment of the number of farmers. But that, when they come to power themselves, can't handle bolder grips than to say yes and breast-feeding to the policies that are run." The Minister of Agriculture has on several occasions announced that the Government should reverse the structuralisation of agriculture. He has, among other things, said: ‘I want to stop the sharp decline. For me, each closure is a defeat.» The Minister of Agriculture must have had a tough year, for it has been cut off on average four farms every day, i.e. four defeats every day. As regards the fishing industry, there is reason to recall that there is an extremely export-oriented industry operating in a competitive global market. Resource withdrawals must be strictly regulated. But the government's attempts at detailed economic plan management of the industry produce undesirable results. The industry needs predictability in the framework conditions, opportunities to facilitate profitability and recognition of strong international competition in the markets. The introduction of district allowances, rigid supply conditions and uncertainty around the structural system, and where, as one understands, the Government is struggling internally to find out what it really thinks, are measures that one might allow in a highly subsidised industry, but not in an industry that is largely on its own. The district quota system is a failure. At the beginning of December, one had received notes for the raw fish layer of well 100 tons of a quota of barely 3,500 tons, and there's barely 4 pst. And that's not a negligible quantity of the 3,500 tons that's set aside. That's about a fifth of the total cod quota for the autoline fleet. For this reason, the Left considers that the district quota system must be abolished only as a last resort. I would like to draw attention to a mistake regarding proposal No. 5, on page 71 of the setting. As you can see on page 43, the Left co-rapporteur is also to abolish the district quota system. Proposal No. So 5 is a proposal from the Party of Advances, the Right and the Left. It doesn't come out of what's on page 71. Otherwise, it is important that there be a power cap to clean up and remove the large amounts of lost yarn that are passive and fishing for years. In its alternative budget, the Left has proposed strengthening the entry Food measures in fisheries by 20 million. kr, or 40 pst. increase. It also includes the leadership grant, which is an important regional policy instrument. The left is well pleased with the government's follow-up to the work started by the Bondevik government against illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing. Increased control and severe reactions are required here.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e693	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e696	The former Minister for Economic Affairs and Agriculture Sponheim was in his time very high on the road to get rid of the form field. If some forms were gone, as far as I know, it increased pretty much at the other end. In the setting, the representative, Kongshaug, repeats the same and writes that he: ‘considers that many public rules, forms and injunctions lead to unnecessary reporting requirements and complex legislation. Small enterprises and entrepreneurs are particularly hard hit by the ‘Form Field’. Does the Left now think they found the recipe for how to deal with this? Or are they in agreement with the Government in that, for example, The bet on Altin is a good alternative? I want to give the representative Kongshaug the opportunity to launch this flagship, with which I think they have been quite high on the track.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e708	In the case of Altin, that's a good alternative. In the case of forms and developments in society, which mean that more reporting is sought every day — including to the Brønn Island Health Registers — from different sources, it is clear that there is a burden on small enterprises. They must use a lot of their working time to fill out forms, and then send them in. Often this is also poorly coordinated, in that one gets forms from different instances that have many similar questions. The fight against the Form Field is an important industrial policy issue for the Left. The representative may also have noticed that in our alternative budget, we are proposing to reduce the fees to the Brønn Island Health Registers by 10 p.p., just to ease the burden on small businesses.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e717	The government has implemented the new forest policy, as the previous government has closed. My question to the representative Kongshaug concerns the Forest Fund Scheme. This system has given organisations its broad support, and we see that it creates optimism in the industry. I wonder if the representative can explain to me why the Left now stands with the Right on a system of forestry deductions, instead of being part of the Forest Fund scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e724	Let me first say that when the Left was in government position and in the Ministry of Agriculture, we were involved in a strong improvement in the Forest Fund scheme, which also had several environmental elements in it. I would like to stress that the major challenge in Norwegian forestry today is to have a greater impact on the 30 million. m3 mass which is the increment each year. We have a yield of only 8 to 10 million. m3. We've been aiming to stimulate increased yields. The improvement of the forest fund system is both good and good, but it benefits mainly the large forest owners. We believe – I refer to a note that we have with the Right in the position – that a forestry deduction is much more targeted at the smaller forest owners, and that, in sum, it will produce a better yield than an improvement in the forest fund scheme will provide.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e739	Agriculture can be the use of land, the gain of solar energy, art, culture and work — or the cheapest food production, simply. There's a lot of thinking. The Ministry of Agriculture and Food participates in the presentation of Norwegian agriculture in Berlin through participation in the «Green Week» exhibition. Here, agriculture is presented, with emphasis on quality products, increased diversity, entrepreneurialism, active housing policy and the advantage of our small-scale farming structure that is adapted to our geography and climate. A change of course in order to cultivate a Norwegian agriculture in this direction must be the model of the Centre Party. It is adapted to Norwegian natural conditions and to the high quality requirements of consumers, while at the same time bringing a high socio-economic benefit, by facilitating the avoidance of over-production, with the associated attenuated revenues. Will the Left support such a price change, or is the main challenge still to achieve maximum milk quotas and free movement on the milk exchange?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e750	I want to stress that agriculture is complex. It consists of a part of the industry and a part of the farming community that takes care of some common goods, such as: the care of the cultural landscape, which is also relevant to other industries. It's an important work that's being done here. What is also important to recognise is that one is unable to steer an agricultural policy in detail through state schemes. The freedom granted to farmers by the previous government, for example: an embellishment with regard to the purchase/selling of milk quotas created an optimism in the industry. It led to an investment desire that we now see the result of. I think it's right to give some freedom in such areas, so that those who really want to bet will have the opportunity. Let me stress: we are still going to have a complex and diverse agriculture in Norway, but it is not in contrast to an increased stimulus to volunteering.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e759	The cord shift is over. The next speaker is Council of State Day Terje Andersen. The President will note that the Council of State will now make contributions as Minister of Industry, and that he will come back later at the meeting as Minister of Fisheries. This will also be the occasion for a line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e765	Norway is one of the richest countries in the world and has repeatedly been identified by the United Nations as the world’s best country to live in. There have never been more employed in Norway than it is now, and we have a high level of well-being in international comparisons. High employment and value creation today do not mean that we are guaranteed high employment in the future. We face a number of challenges that require us to increase value creation if we are to preserve and further develop the welfare society in the future. The 2007 budget provides for an offensive effort to ensure growth and development. It is done within the framework of a responsible economic policy, including: by keeping the use of oil money at a level that can ensure continued balanced development in the Norwegian economy. It creates predictability and stability for business that competes in international markets. At the same time, we give priority to areas that are important for the business life of the future. The offensive investment on road and rail, at SEK 2.1 billion, will significantly improve the business environment, especially in the districts. We have also facilitated increased industrial development in the districts, by reintroducing differentiated employer charges and strengthening the local economy. A high level of knowledge is a prerequisite for the well-being and value-making of society. Under this government, public research appropriations have increased by DKK 2.3 billion, or about 16 pst. In the 2007 budget, it is proposed to cover some of the costs. EUR 16.3 billion for research and development. This means an increase of below 900 million. kr, close to 6 p.m., in relation to the 2006 current budget. In addition, the Government proposes to raise the capital of the Research and Innovation Fund by DKK 10 billion. The total appropriations entered in the budget of the Ministry of Industry and Trade are proposed to increase by 170 million. kr, an increase of 10.6 pst. in relation to the 2006 balanced budget. Space activities through participation in the European Space Programme and through the Norwegian Space Centre are an important part of the Government’s commitment to nutrient research and development. Government funds trigger a number of contracts and contracts for Norwegian high-tech enterprises. The funds provide social benefits in a number of areas, including: in the context of environmental and sovereignty monitoring in the North. Innovation Norway is the main instrument of the Government to promote innovation, internationalisation and profiling of Norway. The strong commitment to Innovation Norway’s schemes continues. The initiative helps to stimulate high-technology innovation projects in priority areas. Travel life is a main field of action for the Government. Travel industries are among the fastest growing industries in Europe and globally. The government will facilitate Norway to take part in this growth and take advantage of its special advantages within these industries. This shall take place through an expanded public commitment to Norway's profiling and marketing. Travel appropriations have therefore doubled in the course of the two budgets submitted by this government. The government has a broad and comprehensive commitment to ensuring jobs and growth in industries where Norway has competence and special advantages. Such an area of activity is the maritime sector. I noticed with pleasure that the investment in the maritime sector is supported by all parties in the committee. The net pay scheme for seafarers contributes to important coastal areas of competence and will ensure recruitment to the industry. In order to increase competitiveness and value creation in the sector, a total of 115 million has been set aside in the 2007 budget. kr to maritime research and innovation. The initiative shall facilitate more coordinated and targeted efforts in cooperation between industries, research environments, the instrument and the authorities. A special focus in 2007 is the development of technologies to reduce NOx emissions from shipping. In order to improve the conditions for Norwegian enterprises operating in the international market, we have proposed to increase the framework of the GIEK General Guarantee Scheme and the GIEK Unland Scheme. It will ensure Norwegian companies a guarantee offer on equal terms with their competitors. As I said, Norway is going well. This budget provides us with a solid foundation for further developing the core of the Nordic welfare model. The state is the owner of large corporations. As some have already mentioned, the ownership message was submitted on Friday. At the same time, the Government sent out proposals for measures that could lead to good migration processes. In the big news, the government's goal is clarified with the state's ownership of the individual company, and we look forward to that message being discussed here in Stortinget. It will, in sum, together with the budget submitted, make a clear bid for a more clear industrial policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e798	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e801	Since we had the debate last year, we've got a new Minister of Industry, and that's nice. But we're recording that the red-greens in this house are still as critical of the policy that the government is pursuing. Since we gave the position in the Business Committee, the Government has submitted the ownership notification. It's an important document, because it represents values of about 500 billion dollars in state companies, and it was 19 billion dollars that was dividends this year. One of the elements of the notification presented is that the management salaries should be competitive, but not pay-paying, compared to those of the corresponding companies. It makes me ask the question: Is having a paycheck for managers in these companies the most important thing, or is the quality the most important thing? If you want quality, you have to pay for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e810	First of all, the questioner's starting point, which says that the red-greens in this house are critical to the government's industrial policy. The representative must have followed very poorly. Because, in general, of the industrial policy and, in particular, of the budget that we are really discussing here, and also of the ownership message that was presented on Friday, that is the opposite. But on the other hand, I hear that there is a part of the opposition that is dissatisfied with the Government. And that was just supposed to be missing, because the government is changing some of the direction of business policy. It's a new course, it's a better course, but I understand that those who were in charge of the old course do not agree with it. In the case of management wage levels, the trend in recent years is that management wages have taken off somewhat violently in relation to ordinary workers in the same companies. It threatens the Nordic welfare model. That's why we're now restricting options. We're giving signals that one shouldn't have a bonus of more than 50 pst. of the annual remuneration, that one should not have a retirement age in relation to early retirement, and that pension agreements should not be too high, for example. That's good guidelines. Within those guidelines, we can get good leaders. It's not that the most expensive leader is necessarily the best.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e817	The government is in the 2007 budget half-way within this large-scale period. So far, we can see that the Government does not deliver on industrial policy, neither in terms of concrete election promises, nor in terms of measures that improve conditions for Norwegian jobs. I just mention briefly: the acquisition law was not proposed, Statkaft still gets almost 100 pst. dividends, the industrial power market is complete in blue, there is a break in research policy and cut in SkattenFUNN, there is still a low depreciation rate for industry, there is a full conflict in fisheries policy, it is the so-called much more active state ownership policy, which was dropped now on Friday, the shipping industry stands unexplained with regard to tax systems, nor on the traditional instrument Innovation Norway is the Government particularly impressive. In fact, we in the Right are at the forefront in some areas of our alternative state budget. So we don't see a more active enterprise policy, we don't see a new toolbox with new tools. Is the Minister of Economic Affairs satisfied with these breaches of promises, or are we going to have a shift in economic policy over and over in the process of enlargement?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e829	Yes, it has been a change of pace. But that the right, as the representative here represents, is for more activity in the field of industrial policy when they are in opposition, is what we expect. For example: The travel life initiative, as the representative mentioned above, has doubled the effort by two budgets. Nevertheless, the Right proposes more now, as they must be more for industrial policy. In the case of Innovation Norway, we have increased from just over 800 million. NOK 1,1 billion under this government – a strong uplift. But now the Right comes and says it's too small. In the case of research, there is a significant focus on space activities, on the maritime sector and on business-based projects at all. But now the Right comes and says it's too small, despite the fact that we've increased it considerably. The point is that we have a government that is now exercising the business policy we said in opposition that we should have. Or else we can be glad that even the Right when they're in opposition is that we're going to extend even further. The policy appears when they are in government.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e836	Generational shifts in family businesses are in many cases a problem. The Christian People's Party and other opposition parties have put forward a concise and simple proposal that can solve this. The government party has so far not joined this, but there is hope in a hanging string. My question to the Council of State is: does the Council of State think that the proposal that has been presented is a good and sensible proposal that has been put into practice, and that meets the difficulties that are actually present in very many cases of a generation change in family businesses? And: Will he look at this more closely when he gets a little time in New Year's?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e843	The representative Sørfonn and I have it in common that we have been on the financial committee together, and know that when a change in tax rules, you tend to go along with a very thorough investigation and analysis of any side effects, etc. I am not saying that the proposal by the representative Sørfonn is not well thought out, but the issue of ownership change is both the opposition and the government concerned, and that is a question that we come back to in a solid way in connection with its budgetary proceedings. I do not reject any of the elements pointed to by Sørfonn can be useful. But we want to see it in a more comprehensive tax context than it is the basis for when someone sits and creates alternative budgets in bulk, and I hope that's respect for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e850	We have in this country a number of companies that are heavily dependent on the government agency to fit into the export market. In particular, this applies to exports to developing countries, where political and economic conditions may be less predictable. The GIEK Guarantee Framework for the Unland Facility has been at a standstill of DKK 1.5 billion for several years and has prevented the realisation of some good projects. A year ago, the Progress Party proposed to increase this framework to NOK 2.1 billion, and I would like to congratulate the Government that they have spent no more than one year realizing that this was a good proposal. Now, however, it has been one year, and we believe the need has increased. Now we give the Council of State an opportunity to be a little earlier on the track, and we wonder whether the Council of State will consider the joint proposal from the opposition in the financial position to increase the framework of the u-country regime to DKK 3 billion in the context of the revised budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e857	I think in this round I'm going to stick to being happy that we're getting support from all parties to expand the framework, both the ordinary GIEK framework and the one that's especially targeted towards the developing world. The usual thing in the revised budget is that one implements the level of appropriations and measures contained in the main budget, i.e. that the revised budget is not a new budgetary procedure. In this round, I would like to thank you very much for the support for the expansion that the Government has actually proposed, without going any further immediately and promising anything more, not even in the next round. I do not think I can promise what the representative is asking for, until the next round, i.e. in relation to the revised budget. I don't think I can promise.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e865	Over and over, the Government and government parties have repeatedly pursued an active industrial policy and replenish the food policy toolbox, which was later renamed the food policy jewelry box. So far, government parties have been most active in sending out some confusing and conflicting signals. A small amount of business-friendly measures, especially targeted at the smallest enterprises, have also been many of them. Let me mention some: restrictions on tax FUNN schemes, cuts in depreciation rates, cuts in industrial research, repeated increases in wealth tax and stock abate, and appropriations to regional research institutions have been reduced. In addition, all the good suggestions come, including: from the Left, which the parties to the Government have voted down. Can the Minister of Industry show me a concrete so-called active proposal in the State budget that makes it easier or more attractive to start a new business in 2007?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e872	Then I'll make sure to use this opportunity to decorate the Left Party. It could be a while to the next time the occasion is over. An active action that we follow up on – as many governments have talked about, and not least the Left was concerned with the last time they were in government – is simplification, not just for small and medium-sized enterprises, but for business at all. So far, some speakers have been in on the Altin as an example. It's a very good example of how we use digital solutions, using the web to simplify processes for business. We are now, together with OECD countries and other European countries, investigating and comparing ourselves with the unbureaucratic or bureaucratic nature of each country’s system. Those studies may provide a basis for further improvements in relation to it. I would like to stress that there is still a desire to know more about the different businesses and businesses in Norway – both the representative of Kongshaug and I use the same statistics – and in sum there can be many forms. The left has – profitably – had a great focus on it. This government is continuing these simplifications, and as the representative has probably registered, there have been many simplifications in this area since this government took over. Maybe that's one example.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e881	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e884	So far this budget debate has been very interesting, because it has shown that we, for example. in agriculture, which is an important industrial policy area, has a majority who do not see the need for reform and conversion, while we have a large minority calling for reforms and transformations. This means that the majority wants to continue a misguided policy, a policy that will continue to cause increased dissatisfaction and withdrawal from the agricultural industry. There is no secret, and I also think that the majority will agree with the minority that there is a need to rethink agriculture. There is a need to think about the market, there is a need to think about innovation and innovation, and there is a need to look at other industries where Norway has been successful. Now I do not see the Minister of Agriculture in the Chamber. He's probably taken the evening and gone to the canteen. But illustratively, the Minister of Agriculture and the Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade has been sitting on each side of the main hall during this debate. It is a little illustrative of how private business and agriculture work. Ideally, these two posts were to be assembled by one minister. Not least, agriculture had a great need for it, for there are two different ways of thinking. The Minister of Economic Affairs runs an area that focuses on the market, change and innovation, while the Minister of Agriculture, who should have sat on this side of the hall, controls an area with a high focus on strong government governance and a clientisation of business. I'll give the Minister of Agriculture some credit. I have registered that he has now entered into a partnership with the hotel owner and investor Petter A. Stordalen. I think that's very positive. But I find it sad that the Stordalen, according to today's Dagbladet, experiences its meeting with the Agricultural Cooperation as: ‘A meeting with the most recent Soviet State.’ That's an interesting statement. I think it is important – I think the Minister of Agriculture has probably stressed this when he has entered into cooperation with Stordalen – for agriculture to have contact with entrepreneurs who can show great success from other industries, and especially from competitive industries. The question must be: what can agriculture learn from other industries? Here is the focus on innovation, market adaptation and internationalisation. It might have been interesting to see what a Kjell Inge Smoke could have done in the agricultural industry. Unfortunately, there are too many limitations, there are too many obstacles, so I don't think either a Kjell Inge Smoke or a Stein Erik Hagen would have found himself right, or felt welcome, in the agricultural industry. I also see that the Minister of Agriculture has now set up a council of industrial advisers. It surprises me that he who has largely chosen old good names from peasants, small-scale farmers and agricultural cooperatives. Here he should have used the opportunity to pick experts from competitive industries, from industries that have experience in innovation, market adaptation and internationalisation. There is simply a need for newer thoughts than I think he will be served by his new business advisers. It is positive that the Government and a unanimous committee see the need to reduce the fees to the Food Authority. This is a work that needs to be intensified, and we expect the Government to come back strongly with greater cuts in the fees next year. I also note that the representative of Gunvor Eldegard claims that the cuts in agriculture of the Advance Party will halve the number of farmers, and that this will frustrate agriculture. For the past 25 years, the Labour Party has removed over 100,000 farmers. What does the representative, Eldegard, call this? Is it the Progress Party that's to blame? Is it a careful adjustment, an adjustment? Or is it simply a rage?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e911	It's tempting to start by commenting on the last speaker. I wonder how the Labour Party has managed to relieve 100,000 farmers. In that case, it's a powerful, big problem, and a heavy one. I want to start with the Workers' Party's slogan, which is that we have to create to have something to share. Government will create jobs and growth across the country. The goal is for Norway to become one of the leading, innovative and knowledge-based economies in the world within the areas where we have special advantages, and then I want to take travel life as an example. Travel and tourism are an important export industry and help to strengthen Norway’s reputation and knowledge of Norway abroad. Travel life creates jobs throughout the country, and is also an important district industry. And then we must not forget that the areas within tourism and tourism represent important women's workplaces. Travel creates experiences, and it gives each and every one of us the little, tiny extra. The government has signaled that she will invest heavily in travel life, as is also stated in the Soria Moria Declaration, and as it emerged from the inauguration of the Council of State instead. Travel life is a major industry in growth. Travel nutrition is one of the fastest growing industries in the world. Increasing economic prosperity in more and more countries, more leisure time, general population growth and higher life expectancy contribute to a rise in demand for leisure travel. It's illustrated by the huge selection that I now see when it comes to travel manuals. Explosive developments in this market say quite a lot about the interest to travel. We're moving more and more, we're moving faster and faster. It is important that Norway participates in a growing market, and therefore we will pursue an active travel policy in the next few years. There are several reasons for that. There are, however, major challenges in travel. Norway as a destination encounters fierce competition from other countries and destinations around the world. Travel industries are largely seasonal, and seasonal engagement leads to a high level of uptake of additions and additional challenges when it comes to skills development and experience-based innovation. These are challenges that politicians must address. Travel industries mostly consist of small providers. Moreover, they are often in a competitive relationship with each other. They operate in very different industries with few contact points. This makes common marketing and infrastructure organisation difficult, which is necessary for attracting tourists. In order for Norwegian tourism to become a powerful and cost-effective industry, we need to work together to establish constructive cooperation on product development and profiling of different destinations. In addition, there will be greater cooperation to attract foreign tourists to Norway. There is no doubt that it will require considerable efforts, both from the tourism industries themselves and from the public, to address these challenges in a good way. However, many in the industry have taken on board the potential of these challenges and use them as a springboard to develop new and better provision. In order to achieve the ambitious goals of the Red-Green Government when it comes to work for all, the Government will pursue a much more active industrial policy. The time for a passive industrial policy is over. We couldn't sit quietly and see that workplaces disappeared every day, and that working people went out of work. New jobs must therefore be developed and created. Norway shall become a nation in which we live on the work of each other and not on interest and oil wealth. Business policy is about having a will, but it is also about having the right tools and not least an active state that engages in partnership with business and employees. At the bottom of this is the promise to pursue an economic policy that ensures Norwegian competitiveness. In addition, as a multi-territorial government, we have unique opportunities to ensure sustainable and stable business environment. This is important for Norwegian business.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e930	The right considers that a forward-looking industrial policy that provides growth and value creation is the answer to a good and safe welfare policy. Values created through innovative business development today contribute to ensuring safe jobs and important social goods in the future. In an increasingly globalised society, the economic policy pursued must be constantly stimulated to change. At the same time, it is necessary to facilitate competitive framework conditions – compared to our neighbouring countries. During a decade after the elections, the red-green government has generally weakened the framework conditions for industry and business, but for the fishing industry in particular. Outside, we are now meeting a fishing industry in Harmony. Following the annual meeting of the Aalesund Shipowners' Association, there was an article in the Sunnmørspost on 9 December entitled: ‘On sea-fleet collision course’ It went on to say: ‘The criticism of the red-green government’s fisheries policy reached new heights at the General Assembly of the Aalesund Shipowners’ Association.’ Further: ‘What causes a Minister of Fisheries to go to war against an entire industry? What is it that makes a Minister for Fisheries approach to terrorising the industry for which she is to be a minister?’ Changes in structural policy, NOx tax, stricter universal and district allowances were referred to. Finally, the conclusion was that ‘the ratio of government to industry is at a historical low level’. And on the other hand, ‘If they do not turn around, this government may ever be the biggest disaster in Norwegian fishing.’ Yes, it's a new course, but it can't possibly be a better course. It is quite serious when we also know that the promise of a more active industrial policy has become one of several industrial policy commitments from the Government. It has been said quite a lot about the lack of commitment to research. In the case of the TaxFUNN scheme, which was established by the Bondevik II administration, it was very well received by the business community. It has contributed to increased research and development also in smaller enterprises, and I sincerely hope that the government here will take the strong signals from business and continue this good system. Where the Right proposes to reduce taxes on wealth and employers' taxes on generations of family-run enterprises, the Government is increasing. On the right, it goes against the NOx tax, because it will hit the short-sea fleet and the fishing fleet hard. The NOx fee would be contrary to the intention to contribute to the transport of more goods by road. This means increased emissions in total. There is today a major shortage of seafarers – approx. Fifteen thousand, that's what they say. The right has proposed measures to improve the recruitment situation in the fishing and shipping industries by removing the limitations of the sea area in the Norwegian International Maritime Register, NIS. At the same time, the right to a model of competence involving a net pay scheme for certification posts. With the Right’s Competence Model, many Norwegian teams with maritime competence in NIS will come out better than with the Government’s model, which only includes a reimbursement scheme. Increased investment in research and development, lower taxes and taxes, road construction, the strengthening of simplification and good market access are key elements for increasing growth and value creation in business and for the success of Norwegian business in a competitive and globalised society. Although the Norwegian economy is doing well for the time being, it is important that action is now taken to ensure that things are going well in the future as well. Right-wing industrial policy contributes to increased growth capacity in the Norwegian economy. The government's cutting edge in research, the conversion of fisheries policy and increased taxes is not a contribution to ensuring the growth of the Norwegian economy in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e985	So far, more people from the government have had the word, and they have a completely different approach to an active enterprise policy than what we witnessed from the government of Bondevik. We want to give some guidance signals to a policy course using an instrument and see St.meld. No 13 for 2006-2007, An active and long-term ownership, in conjunction with it. The Soria Moria Declaration provides clear leadership. This year's budget for industrial policy is a long step towards meeting the expectations of those who gave the Storting the composition we now have. The initiative on travel life has been said by the representative Oppebøen Hansen. The increase of 100 pst. in two years is very well received. One of the major challenges facing travel businesses in the budget hearings was redeploying. They're talking about running through the green tunnels all over the place. Other tasks we have are to preserve the cultural landscape, for example: in the Near Island fjord. There are obligations to enter the UNESCO World Heritage List. When it comes to the travel life effort on Svalbard, we face greater challenges there than on the mainland. It is therefore with wonder that I have noticed that no party other than the red-green supports the comment we have, to focus on nature's resilience, while the fluctuations in annual traffic pose great challenges for the ignition of the travel industry. We need a clear profile when it comes to use and protection to preserve the vulnerable areas, the flora and the fauna. Norway has a new agricultural policy. I was at a farm team meeting on Friday evening. Most of those who were there were not gray-haired, but younger, optimistic professionals with a future. They took up some challenges that I promised I'd go to the square and look at them more closely, but it's going to be given to the minister at a different time. I note that all the parties outside the Right and the Advance Party believe that we should have a level of transfer that provides the basis for participating in income development, and have social status in line with other professional groups. I note that farmers have far more tasks than producing safe food — such as cultural landscape spoilers, as suppliers to the local food industry, and thus can create jobs both directly and indirectly. Even before green tourism, farmers have much to contribute. Organic bet on 15 pst. Until 2015, we are facing major challenges. At the same time, I record that the use of sprays decreases, and then the road becomes shorter for organic production. We also want to make sure that there is still a lack of structure of use. There must be room for co-operation, family use and recreation. Norway needs all the categories. So until the veterinary watch system that's now in place. Only the Progress Party will "throw" money after a negotiated appointment. Food surveillance has had — and has — major tasks, both in terms of E. coli and in terms of bird flu, but also in terms of the hygiene of the food establishments. We need to keep the pressure up and use all the resources that work with the corresponding tasks to pull the load together. The future requires more control, not less. ‘The role of cooperation as a market regulator shall be ensured’ is stated in the Soria Moria Declaration. It's important to have this with you these days. There's a legal case about Tine's role. The government will soon be submitting a new cooperative law. During the budget hearings, it was only a good idea to have a new forest policy. We had to do some grips, we're growing down of forest. Biofuelling shall remedy this situation. New possibilities for fund provision and new tax rules lead to an increase in harvesting. I'm glad the Animal Alliance is receiving financial support. The same is true of the organisation ‘Let us go — Youth into agriculture’. Gardsbruk.no distributes the hall of free use, and suggests building. I also think it is right that the organisation ‘The new predator policy’ should be supported. There are many challenges in the interaction between domestic animals and predators. Soria Moria has a lot to do with the whole country. That's what the agricultural budget is for. Strengthening measures will ensure that outreach and ancillary industries are given a greater focus than for a long time. This is the first budget that red-greens have built from the bottom of, and it guarantees trust in the future of those who produce – I would stress – our cheap food.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e1015	Agriculture is the cornerstone of many rural communities. The budget submitted by the Government for 2007 is the best budget for agriculture for many years. It's a budget for development. I note that the Right in the Opposition has left a responsible agricultural policy and moved towards what is the agricultural policy of the Progress Party, namely liquidation. The proposal to reduce the appropriations in the agricultural agreement by DKK 1.8 billion cannot be understood as anything else. I also noticed the intervention of the representative Korsberg earlier in the debate today, where he was having problems with support in relation to income. I think there's a need for clarification here, because that's not how support and income are the same. Support is payment for common good that we want Norwegian agriculture to deliver, whether it be cultural landscapes, rural policies or other common good. If we pay less for it, we get less. So putting equal signs between support and income is something simple. The government wants an active agriculture throughout the country, an agricultural industry that provides safe food, living rural areas and cultural landscapes. With this budget, the Government has provided agriculture with a necessary level of income, and it is an important contribution to enabling agriculture to meet these objectives. I have also noticed that the Right Party and the Advance Party will significantly reduce appropriations for agricultural and food administration. It has also emerged strongly in today's debate. I am aware that this can be implemented within a policy where one wants to liquidate the agricultural policy that you know today. I believe, however, that within a policy for the development of agriculture, a well-developed decentralised management and research apparatus is a prerequisite for fulfilling the significant tasks of the administration. This does not mean that we should not focus on effective management, on the contrary. For example, we are adding to the budget adopted today by the Storting, to the cancellation of fees and approval schemes and to the reduction of fees to the Food Authority. We are now going to release resources in the Food Authority and simplify the everyday life of the farmer and other traders in the countryside. And when we hear, from the Progress Party in today's debate, that we seem to have 10,000 bureaucrats working on these questions, it is, with respect to reporting, wrong. We have more than 1,357 people working in the Food Authority, we have more than 155 who work in the Ministry of Agriculture and Food and the 186 who work in the State Agriculture Administration, but if we add this and multiply by two, we're not where the Progress Party thinks we're relative to bureaucrats in agriculture. Many of these also work with things that are not necessarily directly related to the farmer, which we could get the impression of earlier today. Many recent issues have shown the need to have effective management and supervision that have confidence in society. Last time we saw this in connection with the Food Safety Authority's work on the E. coli case. Through this case we have also received a reminder that food security is not something we can take for granted. Safe food requires a coherent quality strategy from the ground to the table. The Evaluation Committee for the Management of E. coli by Authorities shall present its report on 15 December. The government has already started cooperation with the industry to establish a national e-tracking system, and we will work actively with further improvement and follow-up when the sample report is available. The market organisation for milk is an important part of Norwegian agricultural policy and is a system that has received a lot of attention. I record that the Right Party and the Advance Party are engaged in competition in the milk market, while in their alternative budgets they add to cuts that will undermine much of the basis for the country's milk production. The government indicates in the budget that a valuation of Tine will be carried out during 2007. It is a work to provide the basis for the continuation and simplification of the market organisation for milk. On the basis of this, the Government believes it is too early to wind up the system of back-checking and back-up, and assumes that this system will continue until further notice until we have an investigation into a system that can replace today's control system. Let me stress that the Government is continuing the competition policy that the previous government put up in the milk sector. For me and the Government, grazing and cultural landscapes are a very central part of a good agricultural policy. That's why we have a conscious strategy where getting more animals to graze is an important measure. Farms which have grazing as part of their active farming shall continue to be given priority. Here we have just begun an important change in agricultural policy. I want to give tribute to the wood sector for constructive input into the work on increasing forest-based value creation. We need to reverse the negative developments that have occurred in forestry, and with this budget, the Government has reintroduced the forestry policy, which was largely liquidated by the previous government. The instruments relating to forestry and bioenergy have been significantly strengthened, both through State budget appropriations and not least through improvements in the Forest Fund scheme. The Committee's approach shows that there are two main points of view on the future direction of agriculture. However, I note that a clear majority on the Stortinget supports the government's agricultural and food policy. Based on the offensive policies of the Government and the sound position of agricultural industries in District Norway, we will contribute to a positive development in the industry and the districts ahead.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e1041	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e1044	In my post instead, I boasted that the Council of State has entered into a partnership with the hotel owner Petter Stordalen. I think it is good that he obtains advice from someone other than his sponsors, the Norwegian Bond team. But it is regrettable when the Stordalen today pronounces in Dagbladet: ‘Agricultural cooperation puts customer abuse in a system.’ He says this is a meeting with the very last Soviet state. In addition, he says: «Constantly more people want to choose organically. I've been called down by farmers who want a bigger ecological bet. Farmers' own organisations are the ones that are following.’ It is regrettable that a person who is used to working in a competitive industry and wants to contact agricultural organisations experiences agriculture in this way. I could imagine hearing what initiatives the Minister for Agriculture has been planning to take towards the Agricultural Cooperation and other agricultural organisations, so that we do not have to have more similar episodes.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e1063	I think it is affordable for actors like Petter Stordalen and others to focus on the opportunities to increase the volume of organic production in Norway. So does the government. We also want to stimulate agricultural industry's seas to increase their output. We have a sample work going on right now. We've got a report today, where you've gone through opportunities to increase production. I believe that Norwegian agriculture has only one option in this area, and that is to supply it as a market demand.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e1069	In the nation on 6 December we can read that the Minister of Agriculture is opening the project Folkefjøset. The public sector is the strategy for small-scale agriculture without farmers having to go into co-operation. The need for new poultry is great, and it's not a stupid idea to spread information about how to build or rehabilitate small poultry. However, the question is how to want future operations in Norway to look like. So while the Minister of Agriculture is marketing the Fjøset, we can read in the same newspaper that his own State Secretary has chosen to go into co-operation. Common purchases were high on the construction of co-operative poultry, and the interest in this is high among Norwegian farmers. One in five farmers is already in co-operation. So the government is going in the opposite direction and is making restrictions on co-operation, and is warning measures to keep the cows in the public eye. Does not the Centre also see the need to develop milk production in Norway in a more modern direction, with more modern and more profitable use, and with better working and leisure conditions for the full-time farmer in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e1076	I just said in my speech that developing agriculture is my intention, and developing milk production would then be to develop a substantial part of Norwegian agriculture. We have now had a situation in recent years where it has been extremely focused on two options if you wanted to invest in the milk sector. One was to bet on niches, the other was to bet on volume, and then primarily co-operation. I am absolutely convinced that there are very many milk producers who also want to have a third choice, namely the possibility of developing the farm they have at home, and building on what has been a family farm, and what has been a traditional Norwegian milk production. It's not like building the largest is necessarily the only thing that gives the economy. So finding cost-effective, practical solutions on the individual farm, which actually doesn't bind up a lot of capital, which makes you not very dependent on the level of interest rates in the bank, and which makes you flexible in terms of changing operating modes in changed situations, is actually a forward-looking strategy for milk production in Norway. That is what I want to raise as an alternative in the development of milk production.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e1085	It is well known to the Council of State that many of the inhabitants of the natural pearl Storfjord in Møre and Romesdal are deeply disturbed by the lack of warning system for the unstable mass of mountains in Åknes. That's a good reason, because according to a report from Norway's geological studies, Åknes ‘the mountain side object with the most extensive damage potential in Western Europe, except for a possible collapse in the Vesuvian volcano with subsequent tsunami against Naples’. So this isn't petty. My question is: can the Council of State promise a full warning system and that it will be completed during 2007, such as both the opposition party, its local party councils and other parties in the municipality of Stranda, and the inhabitants want and are waiting for?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e1097	What I can say, and what I can promise on my own, is that we've done something that's almost historical in Norwegian context, we've spent a lot of money on racial protection in Storfjorden and Stranda. We've spent several tens of millions of dollars putting in place a system that's just going to make sure that here we have an opportunity to make sure – to the extent that we can do it – if the worst possible happens. It's a serious challenge that lies in the race hazard in Storfjorden, and that's exactly why the government has granted, and the Stortinge has decided to spend, tens of millions of dollars on this in recent years.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e1102	I keep in mind the allegations that this government is pursuing a different agricultural policy than previous governments, and that the 2007 budget is bringing about a clear change of course in agricultural policy. I don't think it's easy to see. Structuralisation continues naturally enough. The government is following up the previous government using tax laws as an instrument of agricultural settlement, and the government is actually going further in WTO negotiations than the previous government did. In this regard, I remember what the leader of the Central Party and the party trap of the Council of State said at the time, that it was the last dramatic greeting to the Building Norway from the Left and Christian People's Party. But my question to the Council of State is: what is it really in this budget that is not minor adjustments to existing items, but that actually entails the change and conversion of agricultural policy claimed by the Government and the Government parties?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e1111	In that budget – based on the agricultural agreement that was concluded in the spring – there are clearly different priorities than those that the representative Kongshaug has also contributed to in the past. The structural and rural profile are clearly different in the budget and in the agricultural agreement adopted. We have given priority to small and medium-sized applications in a completely different way. We have introduced restrictions in relation to grant schemes on some uses in order to be able to distribute the investment funds on several uses, and in this way we are making it easier for more people to participate in them. Then we have the forestry policy, which the representative of Kongshaug had in mind earlier today, where he also said that there were small adjustments. Those adjustments mean that we have doubled the tax deduction investment in relation to the investment on which the government of Kongshaug was involved. We haven't cut beyond 100 million. kr on forest – as the previous government did during its four-year period. It is possible that the representative of Kongshaug does not agree that there are significant changes. I note that the party leader in the Left, Lars Sponheim, has said that what we are doing is reverse policy. It is obvious that the truth is somewhere between the statements of the two Left representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e1118	Let me be the first to say that I agree with the Council of State in what he says about the changes made to the forest fund is good. At the same time, the Government is also putting up a commitment to bioenergy from Norwegian forest, which will increase the need for access to wood and thus rock the competitive conditions in the industry. At the same time, over a few years, the government's protection policy will lead to 25 pst. by the drifting forest available north of the Dovre over the next 25 years will be protected. This is what I call the Progress Party an attack on local democracy, a threat to industrial access – the traditional timber industry and not least the paper industry. I believe and believe that the Center Party in the last period called this an infringement of ownership. Then I ask, is the Council of State familiar with the policy pursued by the Government?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e1127	The government has only one protection policy and the relationship between protection and use. We need to find sensible solutions, where we are able to take care of the protection of biodiversity and the responsibility we have there, and sensible local management that allows us to use resources in a proper way and within the sustainability considerations to be taken. So the situation in relation to logging and growing that, based on the discussion we had in the Storting in 2005 related to the situation in the forest, we had the opposite starting point, namely that the forest almost rotted on the root, and that we had a far too little crop compared to the growth. If you say you have an increase of 25 million cubic metres and a logging of 8 to 10 meters, we see that on a national basis, we have a relatively high proportion to go on to increase the yield in the future. So initially, the entrance to the forest policy is to be able to achieve more logging and more disposal of the activities of Norwegian forests.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e1136	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e1139	The divides in the fisheries policy are now becoming clearer, and that is not against me. The position of the Economic and Social Committee clearly demonstrates that the parties to the government are responsible for a coastal and fisheries policy that focuses on long-term and sustainable value creation, ensuring the Community's control and control of marine resources. The foreground part – with the right tow – places the emphasis on deregulation, efficiency and profitability. So different ideological statements give a totally different sense of reality. Moreover, it creates miles of distance for practical policy-making. In a year that, after all, is becoming among the all, at best ever for the Norwegian fishing industry, there is no way on the part of the opposition parties of doomsday prophecies, most recently by the representative Røbekk Nørve, who is seeking support from fishing boat owners in Ålesund. In a year when the Government has seriously lifted the flag in the fight against black fishing in the northern regions, we feel that the Progress Party first goes against a law that gives us sanctions against vessels engaged in illegal fishing, while at the same time choosing to cut down on the Directorate-General for Fisheries in such a way as to affect control activities both at sea and ashore. In this respect, I note that the Advance Party will increase the control of foreign fishing, but cutters in the control of Norwegian fishing. It's really saying that. All indications suggest that positive developments in the fishing industry will continue in 2007. I have today been in contact with Aker Seafood, who says they are expecting an increase in the marketing of seafood products of a total of 20 p.m. in 2007, and prices are rising. The right-wing parties now want greater liberalisation, deregulation and market alignment of the fishing industry without describing the consequences of such a policy. But most can imagine the effect of free competition at different stages of industry. The project is then crowned by the progressing party when it enters into the budgetary position to ensure that the concession scheme in the aquaculture industry is simply phased out. This government is leading a fisheries policy with a strong societal perspective. The whole value chain – from fisherman to market – is to be seen in the context. This is not the equivalent of profitability, as some would like to make it. Profitability is the result of the highest value creation system. The fishing industry is one of our most important industries. It's going to keep going. The new marine value creation programme set up by the Government, which in 2007 will provide a total of 75 million. kr, will in the long term strengthen business across the coast. The programme focuses on cod farming and catch-based aquaculture, fresh fish, ecology, marine by-product, biotechnology, labelling, traceability and development of competences. This is what will provide the basis for future jobs and value creation. Like the majority of those who live and work along the coast, I believe that the structural pause is right pending the structural policy of the previous government. The Structural Committee has presented its many majority and minority proposals. The consultation round shows that the Structural Committee gives a relatively good picture of attitudes and opinions along the coast and in the fishing industry. I have good faith that we are going to find a solution that has legitimacy in the industry. With the neo-liberalist fisheries policy line on which the Progress Party and the Right have now embarked, I am more concerned about political support. However, unlike the previous government, this government has chosen to anchor the main elements of the fisheries policy in the Great Britain. I think everyone's gonna make a living. Fisheries policy is, of course, an extension of economic and industrial policy in general. The fishing industry differs in many ways from other industries, but general framework conditions are also important for the Norwegian fishing industry. It goes down in Norwegian business for the time being.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e1158	It may not have come as a surprise that the Progress Party has once again, as one of its main priorities, to strengthen the simplification work in the public sector. Although I record that the government is trying to follow up the progress of the party in this area, among other things. With increased frameworks for the ALTIN solution, it is not so impressive when you read that most of this framework goes to the creation of the new ALTINN platform. Unfortunately, no more money has been put into work with a better user interface or work on adaptations to attract more users. I would have liked more priority to be given to the work with Altin, so that the goal of becoming the single portal for electronic services by the business community from the public during 2008 can be achieved. The Progress Party therefore proposes an increase in its alternative budget to Altinn of 5 million. In addition to the Government's proposals, it is also possible to strengthen the development of the portal. It is only with a considerable effort on work that we can once again ensure that the task register can refer to nice figures on the reduction in the form load to business. At the same time, the Progress Party wanted to strengthen the simplification work of the Ministry of Industry and Trade. We therefore proposed increasing the item for simplification by 5 million. kr in our alternative draft budget. In addition, earlier this year the Progress Party promoted a proposal to set up a steering group consisting of business and public sector representatives to coordinate simplification work in the public sector. We did this because the simplification work should be done in close cooperation with industry actors in order to extract the full impact of the simplification work. Unfortunately, none of these proposals received support from the government parties, and I hereby record that the simplification work is not a high priority task in this government. Then I would like to point out a major problem that I have raised with the predecessors of the Council of State, namely the problem of piracy. In recent years, there has been a marked increase in the production and turnover of piracy products. Piracy is done in many ways and involves misuse of the original's trademark, design and copyright etc. The OECD estimates that 5-7 pst. of all world trade is trafficking in pirate copies. The EU figures show a dramatic increase in the number of seizures, with an increase since 1998 of 1 000 pst. An enterprise exposed to piracy has very little to do with piracy abroad. The government should therefore have an offensive position in international forums where the problem of piracy is discussed. The rightholders lose large amounts of money on turnover, but it is so problematic that rightholders lose reputation because pirate copies are of poor quality and because of that they are burdened. There is a lot of money to earn from the production and sale of pirate copies, and there is evidence that piracy often occurs in the form of organized crime. It is now worrying that there are so low penalties in the case of intellectual impairments in Norway. At the same time, there is a problem that customs authorities are only allowed to intervene in the import of pirated copies if there is a temporary addendum that allows them to do so. Fortunately, the EU and other countries focus heavily on this problem and give priority to improving their regulatory framework so that it becomes more effective. I would like to ask the Council of State, which I do not see in the Chamber today, to follow up on the work done in the EU, and I would ask the Council of State to assess whether part of EU legislation can be used in Norway to better protect traders and citizens from piracy products. I also refer to the opposition's joint motion for a reinforced customs office.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e1176	In 2007, the government will pursue the competition policy we have pursued this year, and it has therefore proposed a commitment to operating costs in the Competition Authority at the same level as in the current year. The overall budget for supervision will be reduced alone as a result of halving the costs of moving in Bergen in 2007. Competition has positive effects in many areas. Resources are used well. Market actors are becoming more effective and thus more competitive in international markets. Competition provides consumers with good quality goods and services at market prices. However, an unregulated market does not itself resolve market failures in the form of e.g. pollution, natural monopolies such as in the power grid or the production of collective goods. An unregulated market can also give too little investment in e.g. basic research. Furthermore, the market does not adequately address the distribution of well-being. Therefore, public control and control are necessary to manage these problems in a good way. In the Soria Moria Declaration, the government has stated that within important areas such as health, care, education and security, etc. in the railway sector, a build on Community solutions and public governance rather than commercialisation and privatisation. In the areas where the Government believes that competition is a good tool, we should of course pursue an active competition policy. The main instruments of competition policy are competition law, EEA competition law, public procurement law and public aid law. I want to further develop the rules so that they become effective travelers to compete. I would particularly like to stress that we adhere closely to the purchasing area and take very seriously the breaches of the rules that we have been documented. in Riksrevision’s latest Document No. 1st@item: inlistbox Healthy competition and the public around the purchase are good tools to counteract bad practices and, in the worst case, corruption. I have therefore now written letters to all my government colleagues and stressed the importance of ensuring good and proper purchasing procedures in the state. I would also like to remind you that we have just renewed the public procurement legislation and that the new rules will apply from the New Year. In this context, we have also developed a guide, which is already online by electronic means, precisely to ensure that both public and private sector buyers are familiar with the new rules in good time before they apply. There has been a lot of discussion about the thresholds in the public procurement legislation, and I also see that the minority comment on it in their comments. It was the previous government that increased the value from $200,000 to $500,000, and this government has decided that the thresholds should be reviewed next year. It will also assess whether simplified publication obligations should be introduced. When the debt is declared by the members of the Progress Party, the Right and the Left that the complaint subject of public acquisitions, KOFA, needs additional funds, I will only show that KOFA already received 1.5 million in the revised national budget. Kr in additional permission, just because the Government is busy getting us a quick and good complaint. The decision was taken shortly before the summer. Of course, it takes a little time before a new case handler is put in place, and before the case handlers get that competence and get the necessary experience to become effective and good case handlers. So we've seen that it's time before you've had the leftovers. I was just visiting KOFA in Bergen and got a very good and thorough review of both the board of directors and the added ones. And the KOFA is doing a good job of bringing down the leftovers. They're doing a very good job, and so we've gone on with the additional appropriations from the revised budget into 2007 to give KOFA exactly what they're going to have to do to do the job they're assigned to. So inserting additional funds to bring down the leftovers doesn't make the government look as necessary. The minority also reiterates in the opinion that our reorientation of the Competition Authority’s decision in merger cases weakens competition policy and the Competition Authority’s supervision. I don't agree with that. We've discussed it several times. I would like to point out that it is not such that we have changed according to Section 21 three times. We haven't done that yet. We've changed according to professional assessments. It is Section 16 of the Competition Act that the Government has used on two occasions, as the previous government did, and we have used Section 21, as the previous government did. Why did we do that? Yes, because one of the laws of administration in this country has the right to legal certainty – one has the right to complain. Then, of course, the Board of Appeal to deal with the matter, namely the Ministry, shall pass through it with its own eyes and its own eyes. This, of course, leads to an interlocutory meeting of complaints, and an interlocutory review of a decision, as we have made, made by previous governments in relation to the Competition Authority.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e1200	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e1203	In many areas we do not notice such a big difference between this government and the previous one, but in competition policy there is a big difference. I'm not going to mention all of the examples, but I'm going to focus on two. These include: Prior's purchase of Norgården and the merger between Gilde and Prior. I think many Communist regimes can envy us Norwegian competition policy, or lack of such. The absence of competition policy has many unfortunate aspects. It increases the pressure in the Norwegian economy and affects families with weak economies. The lack of competition and the agricultural policy pursued are unfortunate. You know that you have a border trade leak that today is NOK 10 billion. Is it a goal for the Government to reduce border trade?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e1210	After hearing the opposition hammer on the Minister of Industry that he had not fulfilled what he had expected, that the Minister of Agriculture has not complied with, but, on the contrary, has had little adjustment to the policy of the previous government, it is a pleasure that at least one of the Councils has fulfilled and has really turned the shot in the direction it should take – in competition policy. This government is pursuing a different competition policy than the previous government. It is clearly signaled, both through the three parties' electoral programmes and in the Soria Moria Declaration. When it comes to the decisions we've been dealing with, which are based on competition policy, it's saying that a person is wasting his time talking about, for example. consumer policy. But if you read the Competition Authority's decision relating to Prior and Gilde, there's nothing there like that. is about price, precisely because Gilde and Prior were not competitors in the same market. Red and white meat is not in the same market, although I know that many consumers feel that it is. One has to go in and read the professional assessments in the individual cases. Then one will see that the decisions are for the benefit of consumers, for the benefit of competition and for the benefit of Norwegian competition policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e1219	It is true, as the Council of State says, that there has been a major change in competition and consumer policy. But there is nothing special to brag about when the changes are going in the wrong direction and overrun of the Competition Authority in merger cases has become virtually a routine exercise for the Government. All the anchors that have been treated have ended up overrun by the Competition Authority. In addition, we have an agricultural and food department that does what it can to prevent competition in food. In the budget, the Government announces incredibly that it will consider amendments to the Competition Act which would simplify the procedures for the political review of the Competition Surveillance Authority in merger cases. Now there has been no significant problem in overrun of the Competition Authority so far, as far as I have understood. But now it is time to simplify the procedures for overcoming the supervision of competition in merger cases. Can the Council of State provide the Stortinget with an explanation of why the Government sees the need to simplify its own procedures to overrun the Competition Authority, or is it simply a motive to avoid public debate and transparency in such cases?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e1226	This government is not running anything more about the Competition Authority in connection with Section 21 than the previous government. Both Victor Norman and Morten Meyer used Section 21 of the old competition law, and I have used it once under new competition law. It's entirely relevant to do. It ensures that we have a real right of appeal. It's the one. But it also ensures that politicians should have a broad political view of a matter and not just the professional. Just in order to be open and not to shut down a debate, I already have notice that we are looking at Section 21. It is then simply to bring up the Labour Party's primary proposal when we deal with competition law. It is not a question of hiding from discussions about Section 21, but it is a question of simplifying the procedure, for per. now a decision must first be taken at layer(s). And then a parallel of a kilogram is going to work. Resolution to transform on a different basis. We think that there should be a process, with the same openness and with the same transparency. I can promise the representative Torbjørn Hansen that we will stand in Stortinget and debate the possible future use of § 21 in the same way as we did in the one case where I have so far used § 21.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e1233	In the context of the review of the complaint to the Competition Authority’s intervention in the Prior-Gilde merger, the Council of State has been crystal clear that the conclusion of the ministry was based on professional judgements, not political ones. There is no doubt that the Council of State is a person of high integrity. However, when the Council of State reviews the conclusion reached by the professional body, the Competition Authority, there may be some doubt and confusion. The question then is: does the Council of State believe that if a professional complaint is dealt with by a purely professional body, it will strengthen confidence in the review procedure, while complaints about the importance of competition versus other societal considerations are dealt with by a political body?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e1238	No, it's not a red-green policy to put down even more independent complainants and appeal bodies for what we think are political issues. Political matters are for politicians to take care of. Thus, the Ministry is responsible for handling complaints that have policies when they are lodged by the Competition Authority. I would say that what would have helped when a first decision was to be made by the Competition Authority would be that everyone would sit down and read the basis for the work that one has done. I have heard many arguments in that case, which did not even lead the Competition Authority to square, which one concluded that the Competition Authority had included in its case, but with which they had not been involved, for example. that Gilde and Prior were competitors in the same market. The Competition Authority disagreed. There were some of us in the Competition Authority, and EU law relies on that. Then, for example, Speaking about the price and price development of these goods, the Competition Authority said that this merger would not affect the price, while the arguments that we have heard from the right-hand side made it sound as if we were going to get a dramatic increase in the price of agricultural products after the merger. That, of course, is not true.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e1243	One of the most intense supporters of the Government here in Stortinget, the Central Party Per Olaf Lundtägen, took the floor both in the media and in its main contribution to the financial debate in Stortinget on 28 November to split up Telenor into different companies, among others. in a separate State undertaking where physical telecommunications equipment is included. How to achieve this for a publicly listed sub-privatised company is now its case, but my question to the Council of State is how, as Minister of competition, she assesses the output of Lundtägen to introduce monopolies in areas of the telecommunications sector where competition is currently open and free.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e1248	It is primarily the Minister of Industry and his department that is responsible for Telenor. I have well understood the Minister of Industry so that this is not considered to be the current policy of this government. But then until that Lundt owns is really busy, and he used this as an example of a tool to get to, that's the broadband extension. We see that a lot of trouble is that the lines of Telenor are split, so that one can't build broadband in the districts. But then it's saying that we don't need Telenor's lines to expand these last 5 pst. On the contrary, it's a radio link, it's a cable TV, and there's fiber -- there's an infinite number of other technologies you can use to achieve what both Lundtigen's and Government wants, simply broadband to everyone in this country. Then I say that we don't have to make the change in Telenor that Lundtigen wanted, at least not to expand broadband to everyone in this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e1256	I record that the Council of State has become so hot in so much trouble that she uses an old state council line and does not answer questions in Stortinget. I think that is quite serious. I refer you to the line taken by the representative of Øyvind Korsberg. The Council of State was not at all concerned with the subject on which the representative asked. So Korsberg asked if it's a goal for the government to reduce the border trade. I repeat that question. Or is it that border trade contributes to a good competition for Norwegian agriculture?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e1261	To put it this way: it is presumably a goal for this government to have no more border trade than what is natural to have. But I believe that this government and the Progress Party have quite different means of possibly reducing what the Progress Party will consider to be customs barriers, and charging policies that will lead people to go to Sweden to act. This government, for example, means: that we are going to have alcohol taxes at the level we have today, including: for the sake of human health. We believe that we should have the customs protection we have for agriculture today, in order to give our own agricultural industry the opportunity to survive in a world where we see that the WTO will lead to changes in Norwegian agricultural policy too – in the short or long term, we do not know that. But we see that Norwegian agriculture needs to have the protection that this government has decided to have, through the proposals for customs such as: is in the Minister for Agriculture's budget proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e1266	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e1269	It is good to note that the Government also delivers in the field of industrial policy, as set out in the Soria Moria Declaration. But then it is important to bear in mind, I think, that industrial policy is much more important than the policy areas for which the Business Committee is responsible. I think about, among other things. road and rail policies, where we now have a historic commitment, broadband development, where we are now making a powerful effort to reach out across the country, and perhaps the most important means of regional policy we have, the differentiated employer tax, which has now been reintroduced and which contributes strongly to the fact that there is now more optimism and commitment in the districts than it has been for a long time. I have to say that little of that is reflected in the debate here in the Chamber. The challenge is now to ensure that all the instruments are coordinated and work in the same direction, and I think that the Government has succeeded. With regard to the policy areas with which the Business Committee is involved, I would like to comment on a few. I think it is very gratifying to note that we are moving forward in the new direction of agricultural policy. There is a positive feeling in the industry. Firstly, a good agricultural agreement was put in place with several elements pointing in a new and better direction for farmers, and we have introduced new instruments into forest policy. This contrasts in stark contrast with the agricultural policy of the Progress Party. The proposal they have made would in reality have led to the closure of rural agriculture. The fact that the Progress Party has been behind this view is well-known, but what is now worth noting is that the Right Agricultural Policy is also moving in that direction. Otherwise, I have recorded that the two right-wing parties will increasingly decoupling both the fishing industry and the agricultural industry from the district policy, in order to establish a purely market-liberal framework for the operators in the industry. If we are to succeed in regional policy, I think it is important to facilitate the development of the district-based industries, those with the advantage of being district industries, and then policy development must be based on it. In my opinion, the consequences of the Progress Party’s and the Right’s industrial policy are the population of the districts and the re-growth of the cultural landscape. There is no doubt that it is very demanding to maintain a decentralised settlement in our country, and we can probably discuss how successful district policy has been. But in my view, it's important to keep the ambition up and fight this fight. Otherwise, it is gratifying that there is an impact on the cultural promise in this year's budget. In the connection between industry and culture, we are constantly gaining new experiences, and we will certainly see a lot of creativity and involvement in communities around the country in the future. In many one-sided industrial sites where mining has been the support block, the local operators who have taken over the responsibility for carrying on this culture have been burdened with paying a so-called market rent to the State for the mining facilities they care for. This is a bad signal from the state and a source of irritation. I am pleased that there is a unanimous committee that is now pointing to the unreasonableness of this, and that asks the Government to consider terminating the scheme. The mining industry is, moreover, an industry that is on the offensive. Next year, a new mineral law will come. I'm sure it will open up too many new opportunities for jobs around the district of Norway. Perhaps the next quantum leap in cleaning up the world's coal-fired power plant will be developed in our full-scale coal-fired power plant at Svalbard. We're going to meet exciting times.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e1282	I've been looking forward to this debate. After Stortingen has spent the last few weeks discussing how we want to distribute the values created by the business community in Norway, yes, I have been happy to participate in a debate on how to facilitate increased value creation in the future. The oil industry and the power industry have discussed Stortinget in their own debate. I would therefore like to focus on forestry and the fisheries and aquaculture industries. These are two industries that have been and continue to be important pillars of the foundation of value creation and welfare in Norway. Let me start with forestry. Forestry is the most profitable part of the Norwegian off-road economy. With proper framework conditions, industry also has significant value creation potential in the future. Forest management has not only been an important industry for value creation, it is also the most important raw material supplier to the wood and paper industry, which is primarily built on raw material from its own neighbourhood. Today, however, as I was also concerned with my question, the wood and paper industry, especially north of Dovre, is in the process of having problems with enough raw materials. One of the reasons for this is extensive forest protection. Soon it will be 25 pst. of all the forest that will be highest priority over the next 25 years, protected. This is dramatic. There is nothing to suggest that this protection policy will be changed by the Government, and the challenges will only increase in the future. Of course, in such protection processes it is important to respect the rights of landowners, but compensation for implemented protection only helps landowners, not the timber driver, the industrial worker and the landowner with maximum rights in the forest of the country. Nor does it create value or well-being for a few people to be compensated for the rights that are being protected away. Then to fisheries and aquaculture policy. Let me first say a few words about the NOx fee. The government's proposal to introduce a NOx tax must be said to be mildly bad political craftsmanship in the future. The government's strong willingness to hit Norwegian business with a NOx tax is only more strange when you see what the government is doing with the car charges. Car owners who choose to buy cars with higher NOx emissions shall be rewarded, while Norwegian industry and fishing industry shall be penalised for exactly the same action. The NOx tax will not only reduce the competitiveness of the Norwegian industry, it will also eliminate the fishing industry in South Norway and dramatically weaken the profitability of the trawler fleet and the ring-fleet fleet. Fortunately, the government took the senses and turned this case around. Now it is important that the Government actively contributes to the early establishment of NOx funds under the direction of the industries involved. So I wish the government had found the opportunity to wait to introduce this system until a proper impact assessment was carried out. Those who have followed this autumn’s debate on the NOx tax can safely conclude that the government had hardly been particularly well aware of the consequences of a levy before any proposals for a government budget were submitted. I recall once again that the Progress Party already in May asked the government to start the job of establishing a NOx fund, and I am glad that the government finally decided to follow our recommendation. So to the quota line. The introduction of district allowances by the government can be difficult to describe as something other than a gulf. The government wants to take allowances from profitable receipts in More, Trøndelag and Helgeland and give them to unprofitable receipts in some selected municipalities in Northern Norway. This will reduce the profitability of the few white fish recipients left in central Norway, and could in the long run threaten both jobs and value creation there. I would remind you that the Minister for Fisheries has said that the regional quotas will in the long term be 15 pst. of the total allowances. This will have dramatic consequences. So for aquaculture. Despite experiments in many new and exciting species — e.g. cod, for which the Government is very concerned, will continue to be the breeding of Atlantic salmon in Norwegian aquaculture for many years to come. Sigvald Uppøen Hansen said that we should take advantage of the advantages we had. One of the advantages of Norway is that we are very well suited to the breeding of Atlantic salmon. We also need to facilitate the increased production of salmon. It should be a matter of concern to all governments. I want to point out four things the industry needs. Feed, fresh water supply, food fish concessions, access to premises and access to smolt are available. To facilitate access to smolt, concessions and premises by the industry, the Government can contribute, but this is not done by prohibiting farming in many of the best fjord areas, as the Government plans to do next Friday.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e1324	There is every reason to be proud of the government budget that the government presented in the autumn. And there is reason to remember that the promise made in the field of culture involves a commitment that will have a major impact on more areas of society. In this perspective, it is important that the Government maintains the link between a professional, diverse cultural life and an increasing demand for artistic and cultural experiences. It is also the starting point for the action plan on culture and industry with which the Government is now working and which will be presented in the new year. In the Soria Moria Declaration, the government says, among other things. culture and industry: ‘The Ministry of Culture’s allocations for cultural purposes will often be the stable basis on which cultural industries can develop further.’ An important point is underlined here: public cultural appropriations are a necessary input to realise the economic potential of the cultural field. It is also important to strengthen the commercial competence of artists and cultural actors, both in terms of financial management, business, marketing and networking. A number of sites include: at the University of Tromsø, there are studies started where the professional focus is just on these fields. Similarly, it will be important to increase cultural competence and understanding within the instrumentation, so that the arrangements to be targeted towards the field of art and culture are as accurate as possible. It is important to focus on the fact that the distance between the instrument and the operators does not become too wide and that the different schemes are provided with a means to ensure that they function in an optimal way. It is gratifying to see how cultural industries grow, not only in the larger cities, but also in the districts. In Stryn and Valdres, young fashion designers have settled and started design activities inspired by local textile traditions. They've got a clientele not only here to land, but also internationally and in major metropolises like Paris and New York. Elsewhere, abandoned arenas have been used for artistic and cultural purposes, often in premises where other activities have been lost. The old power station in Tyssedal in Hordaland has become an amazing cultural house, a kind of Norwegian version of Tate Modern. So, as some may know, Tate Modern in London, which is now one of Europe's most famous contemporary museums, was, in fact, a power plant. There are generally great opportunities for cultural, food and local development in old industrial premises where the former activity has ceased for various reasons. Constructions are often excitingly architectural, as are spaces and areas that challenge creative and performing artistic activity. There is reason to promote the importance of culture in the context of our travel activities. Tomorrow's tourists will probably be a little bit different from what we normally imagine. They will be traveling in a landscape of nature, history and stories of past and present, where learning and experiencing are equivalent parts of the journey. Therefore, a forward-looking travel effort must also be related to culture, both traditional and new and experimental. In my home country of Troms, we've seen a very small adventure in film production in the last year. In a closed defense camp, FilmCamp Målself has established itself. In 2006, Norwegian and international films for a total of 124 million were recorded at the film camp. kr. FilmCamp has gone in with $9 million. kr of own resources in the various productions, and the measurable sprinkling effect in the region is 36 million. kr. The government is putting forward a film report in the spring, and it is becoming important both for the film effort we have in Troms and for the other film environments that have developed in other regions. In this context, it is worth considering whether to introduce so-called incentive schemes for foreign film production in Norway, as has been done in a number of other countries. It is important to point out that the focus on cultural industries has a regional, national and international dimension. Several of the foreign cultural priorities have been shown to have a significant economic potential. In this respect, I would like to mention the cultural dimension of Regeringa's investment in the northern regions. Many of the artistic projects across borders in the north are groundbreaking and international in character, and it is therefore great that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for 2007 has earmarked 10 million. kr for cultural work in the northern regions. There is reason to look forward to the action plan on culture and industry to be presented by the Government in less time. Such a plan could be an important tool in realising the potential of the arts and cultural industries.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e1351	The next speaker is Council of State Day Terje Andersen. The Council of State is in this instance the Minister for Fisheries.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e1354	The government conducts a fisheries and aquaculture policy with a strong societal perspective. Of course, we are going to pursue a policy that facilitates business profitability, but in addition we are going to take care of important societal concerns. The government has proposed the creation of a marine value creation programme with a total framework of 75 million. kr. The programme is based on the Marine Innovation Programme launched this year, but it is proposed to double the allocation. The Programme shall stimulate innovation and market-setting of the industry, including: through the establishment of networks between sea-food establishments with international potential. The increase in appropriations shall focus on strengthening marine business in areas with special migration needs. I'm glad that a joint committee joins in setting up the program, and I've noticed that a majority in the committee opens up to up to $5 million. kr within the programme of the management grant if it is demonstrated that it is necessary. The Committee points out that illegal overfishing in the North is a serious threat to the fishing industry. The draft budget increases the appropriations for the Directorate-General for Fisheries' work in the area of 7.5 million. kr, while strengthening the Coast Guard budget by 18 million. kr. This is in addition to strengthening both areas in the 2006 budget. In particular, the increase in the budget of the Directorate-General for Fisheries in 2007 will increase the control frequency, especially in Norwegian ports. Further work will also be undertaken on the use of electronic means to achieve more efficient resource control. The government attaches great importance to international cooperation in order to ensure sound resource control, based on the recognition that we can only succeed through broad cooperation and new international control procedures. Control cooperation agreements have been concluded with a total of 16 countries, including Russia. Norway has also been a driver of multilateral efforts to combat illegal, unreported and unregistered fishing. In order to reduce overfishing in the Barents Sea, international agreements are, for example: on port State control, essential. There has been a significant debate on the NOx tax introduced from 1 January. The dialogue on possible transitional arrangements and alternatives to the levy has been based on a common objective of achieving the emissions obligations. That's good. The current transitional arrangements for 2007 and the basis for the conclusion of environmental agreements provide a good starting point for public authorities and business to contribute jointly to minimising the negative impact on business. The objective of the district quota system is to supply fish raw material to industrial holdings in local communities that otherwise struggle to maintain stable production. It is a test scheme to be evaluated before deciding whether to continue. So far, little of the quota is fishing. This is related, inter alia, to: weather, availability and original allowances. The district quota of the trawlers has been increased by 80 tonnes while free fishing has been granted within the district quota for conventional vessels with access to the system. I have noticed that a majority of the Committee believes that Norway should take initiatives towards ICES with a view to increasing coordination and efforts in research and monitoring related to the North Sea ecosystems. Escape remains one of the major challenges facing Norwegian aquaculture. In spring, the Directorate for Fisheries presented a package of measures to combat the escape of farmed fish – a zero-flight vision. Actions include work on better regulation and management tools, more targeted control efforts and better interaction with police and prosecution authorities. The Government proposes an increase in the Fisheries Directorate’s allocation of 2 million. to strengthen the follow-up work of the Action Plan, including the operation of the Escape Commission, which was established earlier this year. It is resources and opportunities in the sea that have laid the foundation for the prosperity and well-being we have in Norway today. Many of Norway’s leading opportunities for the future are also in the sea and in the marine industries. There are opportunities that the Government will actively work for us to make use of.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e1385	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e1388	I will take a line that lies in the border between the Minister for Industry and the Minister for Fisheries. Last year we promoted a proposal to introduce a net pay scheme for Hurtigruta. There went the government and the red-greens on the Storting against. We record that this year has come halfway back, with the partial introduction of the net pay system. We think that's good. One of the disadvantages of the net pay system for both Hurtigruta and the offshore fleet is that it may distort competition in terms of labour. We proposed in our alternative budget to increase the fishing deduction to NOK 150 000 from NOK 80000. And with that background: Does the Council of State think that the fishing fleet has a good framework for recruiting labour, taking into account the competitive situation facing those who have a net pay scheme?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e1393	First of all, I would like to say that it is a nice problem that a good system works well, as the net pay system does and will do when Hurtigruta gradually enters the scheme. We have said that, as we see it now, it is not relevant with the net pay scheme related to the fishing fleet, but we work closely with the Fiskerlage, and among other things. they have produced a report entitled ‘From Youth to Fish, from Fishermen to Vessel Owners’, presenting a good deal of proposals to help strengthen the recruitment of the fishing fleet. Now there is also a certain transition between the offshore fleet and the fishing fleet, and we know that the activity fluctuates slightly over time, among other things. in relation to oil prices or fish availability, so there are some of the same people we're talking about. But I agree with the problem, that we need to put in place more measures to strengthen the recruitment of the fishing fleet, among other things. working with the follow-up to this report and other good ideas to strengthen an important industry for Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e1399	It is no secret that the Government has systematically deteriorated the framework conditions for the Norwegian fishing industry in the last year, through structural freezes, bureaucratic district quotas, rigid regulatory obligations, NOx tax and an expanded distorting net pay regime. The right understands that economic operators express great frustration, as the overall fishing industry plus the LO and the university communities agreed that structuring was a desired instrument. My question to the Council of State will be: Will the Council of State engage in dialogue with the fishing industry, the Fisheries Team and the LO, thus ensuring that the negative spiral in which the fishing industry is now in is reversed and ensuring predictable, good conditions for the industry in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e1409	I have to say that I am responding to the incredible black paint of the fisheries sector that is the premise for the question, but now leave it. With regard to how to solve the issue of future structuring in the fishing fleet, we will be in good contact with all fishermen’s organisations and LO, as the representative asked, precisely to help ensure that the roll-out message we are about to provide has as broad a anchor and as broad a understanding as possible. In that context, I am also very concerned about working with the political parties other than those that are the basis of the Government, in the Stortinget. But when that is said, the fishing industry is also pleased that we now really have a government that is doing something about the main problem in the fisheries sector, the unregistered, illegal and unregulated fishing, where the actual Minister for Fisheries has made a great effort to get the other countries around the North-East Atlantic on port state control, to break through international bodies, to strengthen the Coast Guard, to strengthen the control bodies on land, so that we can get to grips with the big problem of the Norwegian fishing industry, which is not, as the representative says, this government, no, but illegal fishing. That's where the real Minister for Fisheries has done a great job.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e1414	In response to the reply of the representative Korsberg, the Council of State gave a clear indication of some of the plans of the Government to improve the recruitment of the fishing industry. But in the fishing industry, this is perceived as very acute and as a rather big problem. I would also like to stress that the fishing industry has not asked for a net pay scheme, but I would like to ask for a little more clarification. Is the dialogue with the fishing industry in place? Does the Government at the Council of State have a timetable for both short-term action – because it is obvious that this is very urgent now – and for a little longer-term action? Could the Council of State elaborate a little on the plans surrounding this?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e1419	As I said, the recordings are now coming, among other things. in relation to an investigation made by the Fiskearlag and which we will assess in the future. We are working on many other issues in the follow-up to the good budget of maritime investment that is now available, where it is also possible to take account of recruitment. It is also paradoxical that when someone asks me questions about the maritime sector, and everyone agrees that the net pay system has been important, it is therefore a problem for the sector we are talking about now. As far as contact with the fishing industry is concerned, we come, as I said, among other things. in the follow-up to the structural issue of continuous contact with industry and the representatives concerned, both with those who own the industry, with those who work in the industry and with the communities affected by the decisions we take. If I don't remember anything wrong in the hurry, I think my first meeting with the industry on that theme is tomorrow at 4 p.m. 10th@item: inlistbox And it'll be until noon. 12, if anyone should be interested in the length of the meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e1426	Norwegian aquaculture industry markets as never before. The need for new production capacity is present, in particular for food-fish concessions, but also for stock fish concessions. There is a chance for the Council of State to become historic, for no new tribal fish concession has been awarded since 1987 in Norway. That need is clearly present. While we know that the industry needs new sites, and also, in the opinion of the Progress Party, the need for access to new concessions, the Government protects more fjords and sea areas in Norway, which restricts access to sea and fjord areas suitable for farming. When you get this situation with fewer available locations and thus perhaps fewer concessions in the long term, it is time to ask: Will the Council of State go in to increase the biomass limit from 780 tonnes to e.g. 1000 tonnes on each concession? There are no biological or animal ethical considerations that speak against such a change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e1433	We will soon be tabling proposals on the management of salmon fjords for the future, and we are about to start the review of future measures for the farming industry. I can't foreshadow what's being opened for neither new food fish concessions nor other concessions. But what I can promise is that we are now going to go through the matter thoroughly in the light of the stage of the process we are now in. I must also be allowed to say something about the salmon fjords. One might be able to discuss some boundaries and things like that, but there is a unanimous attitude. All parts of both the farming industry, the fishing industry and the freshwater interests were together in the Rieber-Mohn Committee, which is behind the joint discussion on whether we need to take care of the North Atlantic salmon. Then there's been adjustments in relation to that. But I am absolutely convinced that if we were to make ourselves so that the wild salmon dies in the Norwegian rivers, it should not be easy to sell farmed salmon abroad either, because it is actually part of the understanding of the Norwegian salmon that we also preserve the wild salmon strains.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e1440	I believe the Council of State and I agree that the industry in general and the fishing fleet and the fishing industry need predictability in order to achieve the objectives of an industry with good, profitable and safe jobs. The left considers that both the structural halt and the regional quota system have caused considerable uncertainty in the industry and have contributed to weakening the recruitment of the fishing fleet. There is also, in my view, a lack of good and constructive dialogue between industry and authorities at the moment. In the light of the pleasant replication we had in place, I shall not call the district quota system a failure here, but it is at least a little successful scheme, and all the implications in the industry are against the scheme. However, in their comments, the parties to the Government say that one should continue with the scheme before it is evaluated. However, if the proposal to wind up the district quota system falls, the State Council will evaluate the scheme before a new year of allocation of district allowances, cf. the undertones that have been present today?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e1449	Now, if I haven't forgotten the numbers, it's actually the way we're going to, when we're going to discuss the different quotas, hold back an opportunity to continue the district quota system and then evaluate it, before possibly it becomes concrete in terms of the number of tons to be passed on to next year. But I think it's a little early, when some people who are concerned about getting a proper evaluation of the scheme, just before the scheme has been evaluated, have concluded that the scheme is not usable and should only be discontinued. I think that's something in the earliest team. At least for our part, we're going to do something more thorough than that.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e1456	This means that the cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e1461	Today, we have a government that has a “heart for the whole country” and wants an agriculture throughout the country. Today we have a government that also has great confidence in District Norway, but it has to deliver a political piece that shows that it is able to realize the Soria Moria Declaration and the pillars on which this government is based. The last time we discussed agriculture was when approving this year's agricultural agreement, which was signed in the spring of 2006, and which was finally approved by Stortinget one of the last days before Stortinget took a summer holiday on June 16. That's not enough. It was a settlement that gave an economical little promise, but there was no new course for Norwegian agriculture, which the industry had hoped for. This also meant that one of the negotiating parties with the State broke before the final agreement was negotiated, because no signals were given about a new course by the state. What's in the budget position from the majority tonight, I'm going to end up with. That is a good basis for the year 2007. But we have to do some political action to prevent the following from developing around our country: the country is growing again faster than ever before in history. New recruitment to the industry is a problem, and the average age of the Norwegian farmer is high. In many viable agricultural areas, the last cow is sent to the sales team, and can be read in local newspapers from all over the country. The government of predators has had serious problems in several places in the country. Large parts of herds on pasture are killed by predators, with all the consequences this has. Farmers are struggling financially, even with the large state transfers that this sale gives. How are we going to meet these challenges? I believe that we must include agricultural policy in this Chamber and not just discuss each of us a negotiated agricultural agreement. We need an agricultural commission and a new agricultural policy where we face the challenges of agriculture in an offensive, positive and sustainable way. Norway needs Norwegian farmers and Norwegian-produced food, but Norwegian farmers also need a big deal and a government that takes the challenges of the future seriously and does something about it. I have great faith that the country's Minister of Agriculture and his staff will take this into account, so that in this year's offer to the agricultural organisations we will see the outlines of a new course which will make Norwegian small-scale agriculture more ecological and sustainable, and that during this ageing period we will receive a new biggest report on Norwegian agriculture and Norwegian food production – food produced on Norwegian farms.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e1476	I heard the comments from the representatives of Korsberg and Asmyhr earlier this evening. I have heard many results from the Progress Party on Norwegian agriculture, but this is one of the most negative things I have ever heard. It should have been known to the Progress Party that these people are talking about an important industry that has the task of producing clean and safe food for our citizens. Why is it wrong for the state to contribute to our country's safe food production? Any nation must be able to stimulate national food production. We can't make ourselves so vulnerable that we don't produce our own food. At the same time as we produce food on our land, we keep a living landscape in claim, which means a lot for other industries, not least for tourism. I understand that this will leave the Progress Party alone to the market to take care of. The Advance Party should know that Norwegian agriculture employs about. 100 000 skilled farmers and people in processing. In addition, there are ring-effects. The industry is responsible for an annual turnover of approx. 100 billion kroner of what is sold directly to consumers. Why is the Progress Party taking so many opportunities to attack this industry and the jobs of these professionals? Few industries have undergone as large changes as agriculture, but climate and topography cannot be converted. The representative of Korsberg and I come from the same part of the country and state. In our part of the country, too, agriculture means a lot. What would, for example, be? Balsfjord municipality without agriculture? In our part of the country we have approx. 10 000 persons employed in agriculture and the processing of agricultural products. The ring effects are added. The representative of Korsberg should know that agriculture in the north without State involvement will not be possible. I think the representative of Korsberg would rather use his local knowledge from his own part of the country to change the destructive agricultural policy of the Progress Party, instead of strengthening it. By implementing the Agriculture Budget of the Advance Party in 2007, Norwegian agriculture would quickly go to the end. Thank you for having a majority here in the Chamber and in the people of Norwegian agriculture.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e1490	This is an important and interesting debate, which highlights not least the differences and divisions in Norwegian policy. When I listened to the main post of the representative of Korsberg today, I put again the impression that the representative and the Progress Party do not have a single positive element to add to the government's draft budget for 2007. The representative of Korsberg was negative from end to end, to all that the Government proposes. There will be a funny situation in many ways when the representative of Korsberg draws up agricultural policy and compares it with what happened to the Union in the Ski. It'll be a paradox. The Progress Party signals when they talk about a new agricultural policy is, in addition to leaving it market-driven, a cut of DKK 5.8 billion. It is the simple solution of agricultural policy for the Progress Party. When it comes to the Union, it is true that the Progress Party promised nothing to save the Union, but they did nothing to try to save the Union. Torbjørn Hansen from Right stood here and said that the Right presents a more sober policy in relation to the use of oil money. Yes, the representative Hansen said they would spend NOK 1.3 billion less than the government to dampen the pressure in the Norwegian economy. As it approaches Christmas, it must be to believe in a certain person in a red theme, if the representative Hansen and Right believe that this will have an impact on the pressure of the economy. In this context, I refer to the letter of reply sent by the Ministry of Finance to the Finance Committee. Right controlled the Ministry of Industry and Trade for the entire period of the Bondevik II Government. What happened? Well, the only answer we got was that there were no tools in the toolbox. It was former government councilman Ansgar Gabrielsen who launched that expression, and that was a good description. Is this an offensive industrial policy? No, the Right answer was then as it is now: tax relief and tax relief. Then there's a paradox that the Right in next year's budget will increase the food tax to 15 pst. – in other words, no to lower food prices and yes to more nutritional neutrality.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e1503	I think this has been a fine debate on industrial policy – on both the Ministry of Industry and Trade budget, the Ministry of Fisheries budget and the Ministry of Agriculture budget. It looks like there's a difference between the parties, and that's good. I notice that the Right in both the posts and the replicas claim that the Government reduces the research. Now, if you read the budget, the research has not been reduced. The research fund is actually an increase of $10 billion. So it's going to be 900 million. kr more for research for 2007. In addition, I have to repeat that there is a historical investment in nutrition research with an increase of over 10 pst. I think it's important that the Right notices this, because it's not going to be more accurate if you repeat the contradictions over and over again. We are also being criticized for the changes in TaxFUNN. A ceiling is set for the number of hours per hour. years and a ceiling on the hourly price. We have recorded that there are many people who do not want that ceiling, especially on the hourly price, but I expect and expect that small and medium-sized enterprises will continue to research and exploit the good scheme that TaxFUNN actually is. The left also talks a lot about research and development, and I am pleased that the representative from the Left to read my newspapers in the summer and write about them in the budget position. I thought the big commitment left has for small businesses is commendable, and I think they actually have a lot of good ideas. But I can't say that I saw something to them while the Left was in government. I was asked by the Progress Party about the reduction in the number of farmers. It is now time for us to have an industrialization in this country that has reduced both the number of farmers and the number of industrial workers. We've got new technology and machine power. We milk by hand in the old days, now there is robotic milk on most of the curtains – which I actually think is very good. Of course, we are forced to be modern in agriculture. But I can agree with the Progress Party that there are challenges in agriculture, and that there is a lot to tackle there, but I don't think the solution is to cut the budget by 5.8 billion kroner.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e1516	Norwegian agriculture faces many challenges. There is often an impression of a small conversion industry when discussing agriculture, but the opposite is the reality. The challenge lies in the fact that the transitions have followed policy-specific signals and structural objectives over the past 30 to 40 years. Policy has not been able to stop trends in industry. The representative Oppebøen Hansen should have noticed that at the beginning of the 1970s there were actually 150 000 farmers in Norway. Now it's less than 50,000. The Minister of Agriculture of the day, upon accession, said that each abandoned use was a defeat. Since accession he has experienced 2 000 defeats. A doctor who continued to print the same medicine to the patient after 40 years of use without special effect would have been deprived of the right to print prescriptions. The challenge of district Norway is quite different today than it was when the framework for agricultural policy was laid. If the next generation wants to settle on and operate the uses, districts need to be able to offer other jobs. That's the challenge. In other words, the challenge is reversed, but it is not politics. Agriculture and forestry are two very different industries. Agriculture will, in the foreseeable future, be the start of a nationally oriented value chain. The forest is the start of a value chain that ends up in open, unprotected markets. Both employ a lot of people and have a significant value creation, but the foundation is completely different, and the possibilities and potential are the same. Agriculture is screaming for deregulation. It's about creating opportunities for choosing your own strategies for those who want a future in the industry. Ownership must go back to the pawn. The bureaucracy, which controls the most, but which is not responsible for anything, needs to be reduced. The small steps taken by the Bondevik government towards deregulation led to optimism. In fact, the right has confidence in the individual State Council. Investments increased markedly when people saw freedom. Today’s government is moving in the opposite direction, and the death toll is soon becoming the largest group of owners of Norwegian agriculture, because the changes in ownership are hampered. It is natural for the Government to boast that it has taken measures to stimulate forestry. There are measures that the industry appreciates, but the measures are too narrow. It is a significant capital and creativity that is locked up in the industry today. It must be released in such a way that it can become a larger and more important part of the local value creation of District Norway in the future. Unfortunately, everyone is tied to the same mast, and the boat is steered towards the edge.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e1536	Oh, my gosh!
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e1539	Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e1544	In this country, we have a long tradition of using the country as an active facilitator to achieve the goals we want in industrial policy, in development in Norwegian districts, in housing and in creating jobs throughout the country. This gives overall positive socio-economic results, and it has created the country that we all know today as Norway. So those who today pass a death sentence on a failed district policy, a failed fisheries policy and a failed agricultural and forestry policy, I think I should look around and compare Norway with Sweden, a country that is not completely unnatural to compare with, and see what rural areas in Sweden look like. Sweden has a history in which they abolished this targeted policy a generation ago, and it also bears the mark of the country. Rural areas have disappeared, and Sweden is centralised in a completely different way from Norway. We're going to have that perspective with us. Then there are many who have called for a more active forest policy. I think that is a rather unfair charge to this government. On the first independent government budget, a forest fund scheme was introduced that provides an estimated proceeds of 50 million. kr – and maybe it will be more. This will undoubtedly lead to a much more active and increased harvest than has been the case in the past. Of course, we share the hopes of getting the logging up. That is precisely why we are facilitating this policy. My claim is that we're doing this to a completely different extent than the previous governments have done. With regard to fish and the policy that the Government has signaled, I perceive that it is a desire to preserve the resources where they are actually, where they are created, and to ensure that our rich fishing resources benefit the population and coastal communities along the whole coast, and that they are not centralised and accumulated on the most capitalised hands in the most central parts of this country. We also have a long tradition of this in Norway, and that tradition was that of the previous government and the former fisheries minister who broke up with it. When it comes to agriculture, where you draw a picture of an industry that's low on conversion, that's on the defensive, and that has little faith in the future, it's not an image that I share. On the contrary, it is a highly adaptable industry. And that also shows the numbers. There's never been so much food produced with so little people. Although there is no target for smaller people, of course it will be a development that will not necessarily stop. Our challenge as big business and society will be to enable this to be balanced, and to provide us with a forward-looking and good framework for the industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e1555	Let me first place a visit to State Councillor Andersen. Had it been so that fjord protection had led to improvements for the wild axis, I had shared his conclusions. But it is not that the protection of fjords against farming leads to fewer escapes – rather on the contrary, because the farms are moved into open places, where the storm is wintertime. – ‘Narve’ is a good example of this. When I hear the debate on fisheries policy in this Chamber today, I think about when I was at home at the docks in the 1980s and 1990s and told the fishermen that if we deregulate the fishing industry, the fishing industry and the fishing industry can do without subsidies. No, said the Workers' Party, we must have subsidies. 40 pst. by the coastal population and fishermen voted at that time on the Workers' Party. Today we have a viable fishing industry, we have a viable fishing industry in large parts of the country and an aquaculture industry that goes partly at cost. And we don't have subsidies at all. We have an industry that is responsible for welfare and value creation in Norway, without subsidies. I think maybe we should use a little more of the debate to talk about these things. What pleases me the most is that 40 pst. Of these people today, the Progress Party is voting. If the Government is to implement its sharcromantics with structural halts, salmon fjord protection, NOx tax, universal service and all these measures that the Government has so far presented, I am afraid that it will re-client the fishing industry and the fishing industry in a way that this country is not served – at least not the coastal population. This will once again make the fishing industry dependent on subsidies. Maybe the main goal of the Workers' Party is just that, because then you might come back to a situation where 40 pst. by the coastal and fisheries community, the Workers' Party is voting because they know that the Workers' Party will grant them the subsidies they then suddenly need as a result of a misguided fisheries policy. What's a little special is what Ola Borten Moe points to: things are going very well. Yes, but things are going very well because the Workers' Party in the last period didn't mean these things. It was then agreed that there was a need for profitability in the fishing fleet. For the fishing fleet, after all, is the basis for everything else that is going on. If there is no profitability in the fishing fleet, there is no fishing industry either. I really think I've said what I need to say. I expect that I have provoked up to several of those present in the hall.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e1569	Yes, I must say that I immediately agree that Tord Lien has now said more than enough. [[Laughter]] A long life that a penman has taught me that grammar can actually be quite important. In a reply to the committee leader, the committee colleague Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr quoted from an earlier post that I have had from this pulpit. For the sake of order, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the quotation refers to fishing boat owners, an indefinite form of majority, at a meeting in Tromsø. These shipowners, certain form of majority, said straight away that they felt no responsibility whatsoever for employment and settlement along the coast. They were also involved in the policy of the Progress Party. And that's in itself regrettable. Unfortunately, I can do a little bit of that. But I hope that the Progress Party and Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr for the future will quote correctly, from the right context, when they use my quotations. Then I want to repeat to Kielland Asmyhr that when he refers to agricultural cooperation as a kind of Soviet state, otherwise based on the hotel owner Petter Stordalen, I have respect to report some problems. In my time, I have had the opportunity to visit the former Soviet Union and look at how agricultural policy was conducted there, and how collective farming worked. And I can trust Kielland Asmyhr that it was something quite different than Tine or the Common Purchase, than say a cereal in Southum. But I agree that agriculture needs to be renewed, but not in the direction recommended by Kielland Asmyhr, rather on the contrary. In fact, I am quite impressed with both the ability to convert and innovate in Norwegian agriculture. In fact, I believe that we should be able to operate a forward-looking Norwegian agriculture, even after the WTO.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e1578	I just want to say to the previous speaker, Gullvåg, that you have to use this pulpit with caution. I would warn against attacking industries that don't have the Storting's pulpit to defend themselves from. The representative of Gullvåg would like to attack parties and representatives, but you should be very careful about attacking industries, because they don't have the opportunity to answer. And as an old journalist, the representative of Gullvåg should be aware of that. There have been some attacks on the Progress Party, in good tradition, in this debate, and I just want to comment on some of those submissions. Bendiks H. Arnesen was concerned about defending the system you have today, naturally enough. It was important to focus on clean and safe food, and it was important for him to have a national food production and defend agriculture. But that's not true when you're at sea. There's not much national food production at sea. There you've managed to make a transition, and it's the competition that's allowed to work. But that food is as safe as that produced on land. There are a number of actors on land who produce food. The representative Bendiks H. Arnesen was inside the Troms, which is what we two belong to. I just want to point to the company Aron Food, which produces meat products, which are very sought after and safe and good to eat. And when you talk about safe food, and how important it is that the state has gripped this, I just have to remember the E. coli case. It wasn't many months ago. Control is the most important thing, and here we fully agree. To the representative Upbeøen Hansen, who was in the Union case and that the Progress Party did nothing in that matter. What we didn't do: we didn't lie in the election campaign. And I think that's the most important message both to Upbeøen Hansen and to other representatives. We did not try to travel around in the election campaign and flag a vision that has gone back on later. The Employment Act, where has it become? It's gone. So there's been a lot of things that's been going on that you see a danger of cutting down on agriculture, and that it's growing again. That's not the case, it's not about to grow more now than it's done before. I just have to show that there is one industry that has settled in Norway, and that is actually horse-keeping. Here I speak from experience – I have a horse. And whoever tried to get a stable in Tromsø, or get a bite in the summer, has learned that it's a tremendously demanding exercise. The cost of feed is quite high, and it is possible that I should be given a separate post on the state budget, President. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e1591	Of course.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e1595	In the last two months, I have asked the Minister of Agriculture two questions about how Statskog operates in District Norway. I have received two equally disappointing answers, and it seems almost as if the Council of State has not taken the trouble of getting into the situation seriously. In the municipality of Bardu, Statskog is working to crack private actors, who, with the support of the municipality, will be investing in nature-based travel, wilderness tourism – one of the main industries of the Northern Region Strategy. The private stakeholders have got a good deal with Shifte Eiendom and the Defense, but Statskog, who is obviously in a delicate double role, seems to to torpedo the project and new activity in the district of Troms. The last answer from the Minister of Agriculture was so bureaucratic and so far from everyday life in the municipality of Bardu that I would strongly appeal to the Minister of Agriculture to actually get involved in the details of the matter. But the problem of Statskog does not stop there. A few weeks ago, I had a meeting with the central party rapporteur in Storfjord Municipality, who also complained about his distress at Statskog. It was not possible to organize a new cemetery foundation in the municipality, nor was it possible to obtain new saleable residential spaces in the municipality. State forest manages, as I understand it, on behalf of the state nearly half of the area in Storfjord municipality. To put it another way: Storfjord municipality is not master of its own house. In the case of residential properties in Storfjord, the demand is there. But Statskog has set a price for these plots so far that it is not possible to sell them at that price. The number of people in the municipality is on the way back. Therefore, measures that can stimulate new generations to settle in District Drums are particularly important. The Minister of Agriculture belongs to a government that adorns itself with many beautiful formulations in favor of District Norway. But then that government must also make active contributions to facilitate jobs, for example. Bardu, and for residential construction, e.g. Big fjord. I would therefore challenge the Minister of Agriculture and ask him, since he is here now, whether he is really satisfied with the role of Statskog in many district municipalities. Does he see the need for a review of Statskog’s strategy – to play with and not counter in the work of creating viable districts? I'll actually say it as strongly as that State Forest in parts of Troms almost feels like a shell word. It should also be a problem for the Minister of Agriculture and the Ministry of Agriculture, who has this state budget in its midst.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e1610	It's been an interesting discussion. The debate has taken up a little bit gradually, and it makes it even more interesting, I think. Many opposition speakers have contributed to a huge blackout of the situation in the fishing industry. They have claimed that the structural break has caused significant losses to the industry. They have claimed that the NOx tax is a threat in a situation where the Financial Committee has reversed this proposal and opened up the possibility of an environmental agreement in cooperation between business and State. They have further claimed that the district quota has given a large negative impact, and that delivery conditions, etc. has given negative results. I agree that we should deal with facts when discussing fisheries policy and other industrial policies. Everything is not good everywhere, but a lot is good. We know, among other things: – and I think it is important to take this into account – that the export value of the fishing industry this year will be higher than it has ever been. Already at the beginning of December, the value exceeded NOK 32 billion, which was the previous record. We know that the value of the fleet has never been higher. There are now ring-fences sold at a price of 380 million. kr, vessels which, a few years ago, may have had a construction cost of 100 million. SEK-150 million. kr. The results in the industry have hardly been better. We'll see about the end of the year. Prices of raw materials have hardly been better. That's pretty much good. Resource availability is largely very useful. We can then ask ourselves, why should we be dealing with doomsday prophecies in such a situation? It's a high economic activity all over the world. I think it's important that we deal with facts in a sober and proper way. We also have to do that in this case. Then to the structural policy. I think it is a little important that what has been the purpose of the structural break is included. We have the goal of getting a fleet that is profitable. We aim to get a fleet that has legitimacy throughout society, which is distributed throughout the country, and which is as large as possible. We are not least concerned with increasing the Community's resources. Now, as we review this industry, I want to remind those who clearly disagree with this, that even the industry itself is asking, where are we going to be? That was said by the head of the Fischboatrider Association at the last annual meeting, and it will be repeated again. The final question is: when one from the opposition constantly refers to the Fiskarlag, the Fiskarlag, the Fiskarbeitersbund and the LO, does the whole opposition, the Progress Party, the Right and the Left agree that a new tax should be introduced into the fishing industry? That is also part of their proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e1626	The debate this evening clearly shows political differences. That's good, that's a good thing. In order to clarify further if possible, I have now taken the floor again to put the spotlight on what I think is the Progress Party's relatively remote agricultural policy. I want to take the Advance Party seriously, but – frankly – from the work on the budget, I think it is a little difficult to fully understand what the Progress Party wants with agriculture. Year after year, the Progress Party has proposed a cut of NOK 4 billion and NOK 6 billion. At the same time, they have been involved in deciding on some state budgets, such as: in the previous period. Then it was moved on together, maybe 20 million. kr. So the progress party has not called for the big changes. Then you can ask yourself, does the Advancement Party not really believe in its own medicine? Don't they entirely believe in their own diagnosis? Does the Progress Party realise that the great importance of viable agriculture in other activities around the country means that they cannot actually stand by what they are actually threatening in the budget debates? Has the Progress Party perhaps taken on board that it will not be very attractive to invite German, English or Japanese tourists to a Building Norway where the majority of the original farm population will be in decline, and where both outland and inland are destitute, and perhaps completely overgrown? That is what we can expect if the Progress Party gets what they want. As I mentioned earlier in this Chamber, agricultural policy is in stark contrast to the policy of the Progress Party towards the maritime sector. The ‘aid’ they will grant in the agricultural sector, by cutting half, would rather add to the maritime industry. To put it this way: if we get a full-scale experiment against assumption in the form of the agricultural policy of the Progress Party, there will not exactly be need in front of the cashier of the Coop, neither in the Beirarn nor in the Budget. I hope that experiment we'll never see realized.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e1641	I will use these minutes to clarify some quite obvious misunderstandings that have emerged in the debate. It is not the case that the Progress Party is negative to Norwegian agriculture. Obviously, those who claim it cannot have read either the comments of the Progress Party in the budgetary position or our comments on the agricultural situation. But what the Progress Party is doing, and as several parties in this room should do, is to point out quite clear system errors that prevent the growth, development and value creation of the industry. What's happening here is that the majority of people in this room are helping to do this industry a great service by not making all the necessary changes, which I think everyone will actually see will have to come. Then we have the representative Steinar Gullvåg, who is now trying to proliferate away from his statements at the fishing boat owners up north. I think that everyone who was present perceived Gullvåg as I quoted him. But he goes into the trap that he himself commits quote fraud when he tries to quote that in an earlier debate today I have described the agricultural cooperation as 'the last Soviet state'. So I haven't done that, but I quoted a successful businessman in this country who claims it, and I think it's sad that a man who does such a big business, and who also depends on agriculture, perceives agriculture that way. The representative Bendiks H. Arnesen claims that the Progress Party attacks the industry, that we are not for safe food production, and that we are not for living villages and cultural landscapes, but that we are for the market to rule. Yes, we are for the market to rule in this industry as well. I noticed that the Minister of Agriculture earlier today said that agriculture must produce what the market wants. We cannot introduce completely different rules for agriculture than for all other industries in this country. And it's actually true that if Arnesen is critical of the fact that there will be less living settlements and a worse cultural landscape, he has to look at his own party's policies. For it is not we from the Progress Party who have used words in this debate as replenishment, evaporation, poor agricultural settlement or predatory management problems. It is the representatives of the government parties who have done, who are obviously not satisfied with the current agricultural policy, and want a different course, out of what has been done.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e1652	If it was the case that Kielland Asmyhr actually wanted to develop the agricultural industry in Norway, he could probably start somewhere else than by cutting over DKK 5 billion in the budget and assuming that agriculture is to be developed. The reality is that if a person wants to get new jobs, wants to use the farm as a starting point for business development in the countryside, and wants to combine food production with opportunities in bioenergy, tourism, travel, green care, etc., we need to have the foundation at the bottom. We have to produce quality food as a basis in the countryside, and then we have to be able to pop out of it and develop the farm based on it as a starting point. Then it is not useful to start by removing what is actually there as a foundation, and so believe that one should be able to replace it with something else and – in and of itself – indefinable. The representative Aspaker was concerned with the communication that the representative has had with me in connection with the situation in Troms around the Defense in Bardu, and believes that Statskog here is doing a great wrong. What I've been trying to communicate with the representative of Aspaker in two letters is that it is important to create neat conditions when you want to change the use of a property on Statskog's land, and where there may be a situation where cleaning up cleanly in this area can become a reality. It wants State Forest to secure itself in the negotiations that are now. And I'm probably somewhat uncertain as to whether it's very unreasonable to want to have a security for what's going on in the future around the buildings that the Defense has used, but that might now be used for other things. In the case of State Forests in general, they shall be part of the community. State forest manages significant land, is Norway’s largest landowner and has both the opportunity and responsibility to contribute to local value creation. This means that State Forest should be located in the middle of the tree in relation to specific agreements. State forests shall not be a price-driven organisation out of line with contracts concluded differently, nor shall they dump prices and thus destroy the market in relation to operating differently in the countryside. There shall be State forest space in a market which is concerned with the development of industry and the use of the resources in the countryside.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e1661	There is an interesting change in the agricultural policy of the Progress Party. In the past, the party has clarified that it is the system that is behind it, while farmers are honoraries who make a good effort and who should have a income for their pursuit in line with others. It is said that one should take a settlement with the agricultural governance system, because it has not achieved the ambitious objectives set. It keeps on going to the point. But what's interesting now is that we've got two very strong examples of the fact that the Progress Party is now open to the incomes and income opportunities of the individual holder. The first example is that of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on competition in the milk sector. It says that the majority, all except the Advance Party and the Right, ‘will conclude that the Storting’s expressed wish to increase competition in this sector was not intended to lead to a lower producer price. Therefore, solutions to the conflict must ensure the target price of the agricultural agreement». The progress batch could not be included in such a note. The right has said in press releases and in today's debate that they should join in because they agree. Tine’s competitors, the Q-meieries and Synnove Finden, have publicly said that they agree with the comment, but still the Progress Party is opposed – maritime because one cannot help ringing the income opportunity that the market price of milk should offer. One directly disagrees. There's something else you can't understand the comment like that. So to the second point. The Progress Party has in the financial debate and otherwise become a spokesperson, now as in the past, for tax relief. Nevertheless, the Progress Party, as the only party, succeeded in voting against the increase in the agricultural deduction, on the grounds that since the income of agriculture was as it was, those persons did not deserve any tax relief. In addition to this, we have appropriations for the State budget which must necessarily lead to a severe deterioration in the incomes of agricultural work for a capable and on-going farmer. The Progress Party has stated that it does not trust those who are to live on its work in agriculture, and in particular those who are to live on their work through hard work and large production. The so-called contractors do not choose the Progress Party, because no one will be more negatively affected by the policies of the Progress Party than those for which a spokesman is trying to make up. But it's on paper.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e1677	The representative Lars Peder Breck claimed that the opposition was measuring the situation in the fishing industry. If the government party wants to devalue the death penalty from the opposition, I'm a little worried, because the Christian People's Party tried to devour an important penitentiary, that the fishing industry needs a stable and prudent framework. The rapid stop in the structural quota system led to considerable uncertainty, the NOx charge sending shock waves into the industry, and there are major recruitment problems in the industry. The running message is that we are still uncertain about the industry and are uncertain about what happens to the structural quota system. We are not sure what the amended NOx charging scheme will say in practice. The Minister of Industry has given a strong signal of willingness to do something about the recruitment situation, but we are in some way in an uncertain phase. Our main habitat is the following: fishing industries need stability and foresight. With a plural government, the government and government party have the power to deliver after this order.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e1688	It was the representative Lars Peder Breck who made me take the floor for a brief comment. He said, "How few are we going to be?" A professor at Ås, in the 1950s, took as a starting point the development of the number of forest workers and outlined developments. Then he found out that there would be one woodworker left in 2050. If we look at where we are now, we're actually ahead of the forecast. One can always be alarmed by such a development, of course one can be. But it won't stop. If you try to regulate it, it really just creates specimism, and you don't allow those who believe in the industry to have faith. Both the State Council Dag Terje Andersen and I have a background as a forest worker, and in my area at least no one is in the traditional forestry sector. The story shows exactly the opposite. The conversion is not the end of anything good, but the start of something better. It's actually a prerequisite for future well-being, and in order for us to be able to bear the caring society we're opposed to. There is a great deal of uncertainty for the individual, and it may be quite difficult to deal with it. But it is not possible to stop progress there either. It is a pity, therefore, that the Minister of Agriculture did not seize the opportunity to continue the real orientation needed in agricultural policy and that we still had the cautious approach to a new future that the previous government started. I hope he comes up with better thoughts later on.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e1697	Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr has spoken twice earlier and gets the floor for a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e1700	It was Per Olaf Lundtigen's contribution that made me take the floor. He claims that this is a change in the agricultural policy of the Progress Party. Then I think the representative Lundtigen is not coming along well, because I have said that there are system errors we are looking to attack, and not the individual farmer. I can assure the representative Lundtigen that I believe that both he and his professional brothers, including my father, are honoraries. Then Lundteg claims that the Progress Party wants to weaken the farmer's income situation, among other things. by what we say in a note about the milk price. I wonder which parties here in this Chamber can guarantee a price in a free competition market that we want. I've also noticed that the Right is trying to proliferate out of that note, but I don't think any parties can do that. That's why we're the only party that's honest with the farmer and wants real competition in the dairy sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e1707	Lars Peder Breck has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e1711	I'm sure it'll be quick. I would like to comment on two of the contributions that came at the end here, from the representative of Ingebrigt S. Sørfonn and the representative of Gunnar Gundersen, respectively. As for belief in fate, to use that term, I just want to stress that it's a little bit important, anyway, to take into account the real trends in the economy of the fishing industry. The real trends are that it's going pretty well. That's what I was trying to get there. It is clear that we must make sure that we are doing quite well in the future. So to the representative Gunnar Gunnersen, who commented on the expression used by the leader of the Fischbootreiders Association: Where are we going to be? It has something to do with the environment, it has something to do with how to develop the industry in the future, because it's a lowest limit there. But I want to say it so that if we're going to take the Right, the Advance Party and the Left seriously, they're going to be as few as the technology allows, and then we're going to pay as much resource tax as it's possible at all. That's Ragnvaldur Hannesson's response to the development of the industry, and I'm against that.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e1724	Then the President will give the floor to Per Olaf Lundtigen. Lundtigen has 3 minutes of speaking time. He's among the lucky ones.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e1727	Yes, it is important to save on the powder. The representative of Kielland Asmyhr says I'm not following very well. Well, she may, but I think I'm following this reasonably. What I pointed out is two clear examples of something that does not go on a system, but that goes on the incomes of the individual holder and the net income of the individual holder after tax has been paid. To take the last one first: as the only party, the Progress Party found the basis for going against tax laws through agricultural deductions for farmers, because farmers had a build-up of income that was such that they didn't deserve it, which all other parties thought was fair. There's one not getting around. Point 2 – the milk price: as a number of speakers, including the Centre Party, have made up their minds in order to compete in the processing of Norwegian milk. It has been said that such competition will lead to an increase in the efficiency of the industry and more products and that consumers will have a better choice of products. At the same time, it shall not lead to a lower price for the milk by the producer. No, it was supposed to keep it. There are some of us who have read history so much that we know how the political views of the Progress Party – to put it that way – have occurred on this issue. It's just reading the 50-year history of the Council of Turnover, you can see that. We have assumed that the Progress Party was really looking for here, was to reduce the farmer's price. Now we have this confirmed by the fact that the party of progress is going for a comment where one says that one does not want to maintain the target price level that is set on the commodity, because it is the commodity price that is going to be the same for all the processors, who are going to compete. It's a new epoch we're in. The Progress Party makes itself the spokespersons of the entrepreneurs, those who run big, those who have a lot of land, those who in many cases have a lot of debt, those who depend heavily on market prices, very much depend on the system. No one in Norwegian agriculture will be hit harder by the policies of the Progress Party than they are. Therefore, the party talks with at least two tongues.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e1742	In fact, I would like to start by thanking the Minister of Agriculture for the answer with regard to Statskog, whom I interpret as a response to my remarks that the State and Statskog must see as their primary responsibility to be part of the organisation of jobs and resettlement in the districts. I also interpret the Minister of Agriculture as saying that the last word has not been spoken in that case in Bardu, which the undersigned and the Council of State have exchanged more questions and answers on. I'm 100 pst. agree with the Council of State that environmental protection and remediation in vulnerable areas is a point and, as in the Bardu project in which all except State Forests are set up for a five-year test run for the establishment, it should be possible to agree, all the time also Change Property and Defence accepts and guarantees a clean-up for such a five-year period. If you do not agree on the further business in this way, you still have the defence guarantee that you will clean up. When it comes to the problems in Storfjord Municipality, I understand the council so that he will almost make sure that State Forest does not act like a price squeezer and in such a way that people who want to live in the districts do not actually see the possibility of doing so. I believe that the answer given by the Council of State is reassuring, but I will follow closely what he does further. I would also like to challenge the Council of State quite at the bottom of this debate as to what kind of new steering signals he might in that case imagine sending Statskog, and when he might think of doing so.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e1753	Øyvind Korsberg has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e1756	I am not going to try to convince Lundtegen of the policies of the Progress Party, simply because this parliamentary term is only until 2009. I think I need longer than three years. What is important for the Progress Party in terms of agricultural policy and the tax system is that we do not want tax advantages for individual groups. We want a general tax relief and a general tax reduction, because that is what benefits the most. Then I must refer to the head of Trygve Hegnar on December 2nd this year, where he writes that ‘each farmer receives support from the State budget of SEK 223,000’; and that ‘The Norwegian Institute of Agricultural Economic Research the other day presented figures showing that last year the average farmer earned NOK 173,300. [[...]] So roughly the average farmer gets $50,000 more in support than he earns!’ It's quite creative!
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e1776	Yeah, look at this!
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e1781	It looks like we're running again!
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e1786	Yes!
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e1789	To date, I think there is a need for a visit to the representative of Korsberg on the relationship between support and income. I think that even if the representative Korsberg hires a carpenter to fix his house and pays the joiner 500,000 kroner for it, that does not mean that the joiner has 500,000 kroner in wages. There is something about paying for different types of tasks that are done in the Norwegian community, and paying Norwegian farmers to deliver common goods is also a way of paying. The other way is of course through price, which is also part of the formation of income in agriculture. Then it was State Forest. The representative Aspaker interpreted what I had said. My answer was no different now than what I have given in the form of a letter. I tried to say what the representative Aspaker saw as something bureaucratic, in a short way. In that is what I have communicated here – neither more nor less – and what is communicated in a letter earlier. In the case of control signals to Statskog, they are given annually. I have annual meetings with Statskog and am of course concerned that the steering signals, both verbally and in the form of letters, are given in a way that underpins what I said in my previous post.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e1798	Per Olaf Lundtigen has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e1802	The representative of Korsberg says that the Progress Party stands for general tax relief. It's completely wrong. They have a solid tradition of discriminating and solid tradition in order to achieve their goals. For this reason, they proposed to increase the fishing and seafarers' deduction, proposing to reduce the top tax to 700000 people who make over 400000 kroner, with a total of 1692 million. kr. Three years ago they went in for a big campaign to reduce the special tax on the petroleum business – yes, I can repeat it to the almost boring. Otherwise, the representative of Korsberg says that appropriations for the state budget of some farmers, or for the average, are high. Yeah, that's right. The problem is that if the Progress Party had implemented its policy, they would have the farmers who were left with an even greater budget. So they'd become even more state-driven, and the prices would have gone down dramatically.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e1809	I have had the pleasure of following parts of the debate today. I was not really going to take the floor, but I have to be allowed to comment on some of the claims of the Progress Party on Norwegian agricultural policy. There are certainly elements in the policy of the Advance Party that are good for Norwegian society. I think so, without going into it. But to believe that the agricultural policy of the Progress Party will be good for Norwegian society, it will be like believing in Christmas. And sail if we approach the time when Christmas is coming, at least I won't be a part of it. The agricultural policy of the Progress Party will simply mean that most farms in Norway have to be closed down. That's a fact! There will be no agriculture in Norway in the marginal areas where we have agriculture today. Today it is glued in many communities, both in the West, in the inner East, in Trøndelag, in North Norway, etc. We'd probably have a few more uses around Mjösa, around Oslofjord and on Jären. Moreover, Norwegian agriculture would have been abandoned. These are the facts of the agricultural policy of the Progress Party. I do not think we – when we stand in the staging room – are going to think of the Norwegian people that the agricultural policy of the Progress Party is helping to serve the districts and to serve Norwegian agriculture. Therefore I felt that I had to take the word. The Progress Party can have good policies in some areas – it is possible! However, with regard to agricultural policy and rural policy, the party's policy is a disaster for Norwegian society. It means rage and closure.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e1818	It was the remark about Trygve Hegnar and his leader who made me take the floor. It is true that the unemployment papers in Norway are subject to VAT exemptions, and Trygve Hegnar could next bother to take the calculation of how many tax dollars or how many state aid crowns, that means per person. work place for Akersgata in Oslo. My prediction is that it would probably be as high as the amount the Progress Party said that Norwegian farmers get. The party says that they support the Norwegian farmer, and that the party will do well for the Norwegian farmer and agriculture. That's what I think is a reasoning that's very strange, and that has to be like talking to better knowledge. Every time we have discussed free trade, or every time we have discussed trade agreements and the WTO in this Chamber, I recall that the Progress Party has called for a reduction in import protection, and to give our defensive interests in agricultural policy, on the boat in negotiations with the WTO. As import protection goes down, of course the Norwegian market and outlets on the Norwegian market will also disappear, and as a result, the production base for very many Norwegian farms will disappear. So the Progress Party spends a lot of its time hacking into Norwegian agricultural cooperation. It's a sport they've been playing for many years, and what's been the competition between the Right and the Advance Party this fall is who's best to use public crowns to support those players who are trying to enter the dairy market. There's a strange problem there, too, that you need huge transfers over the state budget to be able to compete with Tine at all. But what are the characteristics of these manufacturers? It's not that you've got a larger range of products. Sensing Finden competes on white cheese. The Q dairies produce milk. I am still happy to see that this has got the price down for Norwegian consumers. It is said that the combination of open borders, reduced direct transfers and a broken dairy cooperative is to want the farmer well, and that it is to want the Norwegian countryside well. I have, with all due respect, very difficult to see that it can vote. Then I want to conclude by saying that this has been tried before. After all, it is a country that has implemented the liberalisation of its agricultural policy, completely deregulated it, and has no regulation on ownership. America is such a country. What do you see there? Well, you see, you're back now where we were in Europe 100 or 200 years ago. There are farmers who act as tenants in large, large companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e1829	It's basically been a nice harvest. The party on the right has again been engaged in industrial policy. The left has again become involved in environmental policy. The Christian People's Party has once again become involved in distribution policy. Yes, I suppose the only ones who are recognizable on the bourgeois side are the Progress Party. So they continue to sue and complain about everyone else without taking responsibility for themselves, and continue to fight against the welfare society that we have in Norway. But these opinions may not last that long. The reason I took the floor now was the post of the representative Korsberg. In the finance debate a short time ago, the Progress Party said that they would not give tax relief to the farmers, because they received subsidies, while today the representatives of the Progress Party say that no, they will give general tax credits. Yeah, that's a good name for the Progress Party. 14 days ago, representatives from the Progress Party would use 10 pst. by the Pensions Fund for Road Construction. Well, we haven't seen so much of it in the budgetary procedure that's now. That is, of course, the problem of the Progress Party and their policies, or the lack of them. Because if one reads the programme to the Progress Party, it turns out that they are a liberalist party, but when one hears the debate here, they try to play as much as possible on the social-democratic side of the track. It's not hanging in the jump! And then when someone says it to them, they get sour like little kids. They can't take criticism, but they just have to accept that they get it. They are a liberal party, they want a welfare society different from what we have, they want private solutions, and they want us to be our own success smiths. It's the Progress Party! They do not want the Landsorganisation für Arbeits, and they want to change the strike and lockout law. It's the Progress Party! They don't say anything by themselves, so someone has to try to tell us what they finally stand for. Or they actually have to log into their PC and read on their own software. Or if they don't do it against assumption, they should read the program that they can get in paper.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e1836	It's great that everything that's said from this pulpit, every night, every day, all the time, is true. But I also think that if you want to repeat an untruth often enough, it actually doesn't become any more true for it. I have to say that it is tragic to listen to what is being said. In fact, with the agricultural policy pursued in Norway today, it is averaged to decrease by about a quarter. 10 holdings per day. This stands and glorifies from this pulpit, saying that we have a fantastic, beautiful and fine agricultural policy. Then you just have to say straight away, that there is something that manages to stop Norwegian agriculture, because it is just a continuation of the policy that we have had and that you now want to continue. Then the question is, how many farms will be closed down in the next few years? Will it be nine, ten, eleven or twelve every day? So it's going to be the result of the policy you're using. The fact that the Progress Party has a different economic policy and has other economic solutions in its policy should be very well known for this room. We've had that for years. If you think there's only one way to the goal, then you can keep talking eternal truths from this pulpit.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e1843	The rumors that the representative Rolf Terje Klungland had left Stortinget this evening have of course turned out not to vote. It is clear that we have been waiting, and we have been waiting, and the representative of Klungland came to the end, as he usually always does in these debates, and as the first representative to this day has been able to make a completely meaningless contribution to what this debate is all about. Not a single word in Mr Klungland's speech was about industrial policy. It was about the second party, and so he has only contributed to one thing: to extend the debate, not the knowledge. I want to take into account what is involved in the fishing industry. We are in a situation where there has actually been a great deal of agreement over time in the fishing industry, related to structuring, related to district quota schemes – or that one actually did not want it – and then it is very problematic that the current government creates – I kept saying – uncertainty in an industry that needs predictability, in a competitive industry, in an industry that faces major challenges in production from other countries. We now see, among other things: that our white fish, the Norwegian white fish, are met by farmed fish from, among others. South Korea, and Vietnam, who is now coming and meeting us in the European market. I hope the government will soon change course. The only thing that has so far been able to create on the food side of fisheries is just uncertainty — uncertainty about regulation and structuring. It's solid. It creates uncertainty about how to meet the future in terms of quota arrangements. What you need is predictability, not uncertainty. There is a need for good framework conditions, not unsafe framework conditions. And then we need people who are engaged in business policy, and who are not just concerned with what other parties mean. I hope the representative of Klungland will soon read his own party program and talk about it, instead of just compromising the truth about others.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e1854	The representative Lundteg manages to draw off a lot of strangeness from this pulpit. Today he repeated several times that farmers must be paid for the work they do. It's an interesting way of thinking if we were to keep operating that way in society. Every time you lay down a piece of work, you get paid. But that's actually not how it works. That's what you produce, you get paid for, it's actually not for how many times you bend and take the spade down into the ground, you get paid for, even if Lundtigen likes it that way. It actually doesn't work that way. So back to the tax reliefs. Of course, the Progress Party does not want tax relief for people living with subsidies. It doesn't make any sense. They basically live on other people's employee income, and then they're going to get subsidies on it. That is what the Progress Party believes is pointless. Then to the representative Klungland. You don't spend any oil money by funding the money. Klungland has already spent a lot of oil money. But that's what the Progress Party will do when it comes to transport policy: to fund the money and use the return to build roads, because this growth cannot afford enough for maintenance or for the construction of new roads. But what Klungland's representative would rather do with the money, is to invest all the money – almost all the money – in our competitors' businesses. This is the Labour Party's policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e1865	It's late now, and maybe too late for adult education. It's probably representatives who have said this before that if you're going to train adults against representatives of Klungland's character, it'll take time. What I would like to point out is that at least the Progress Party is looking at the possible. I note that all the representatives of the government parties are now focusing on what is impossible. It is clear that when the Progress Party tries to focus on what is possible, we face criticism from all directions. But I have registered something positive. Parliamentary leader in SV, Inge Ryan, was in the pulpit and said that the Progress Party has very much positive policies, but in the agricultural policy he disagreed. I agree with Inge Ryan from SV. The Progress Party has a lot of positive policies. But then we have a challenge in agricultural policy, and that is adult training, and especially in relation to representatives who have grown up in the agricultural sector, and who are in some way indoctrinated that this should be so, and we cannot change it. My grandfather also had a difficult farm. It went bankrupt. So if you're going to draw that story, I'm kind of being baked into the system. That's the way it is all over the world. But there will be very little credibility in defending the industry with beaks and claws when you're in the industry, and you're going to keep the industry safe without looking at the challenges that come in 5–10–15–20 years. Then one is just to the greater harm to the industry than if one lets the industry be predictable and meet the challenges that come. That is what reflects the debate on Norwegian agricultural policy. Year after year, decades after decade, we have been insisting that agricultural policy must be maintained and that we must protect ourselves against what may develop. Fortunately, it is now the case – or unfortunately, many people – that the Progress Party has now been bringing about changes in agricultural policy for 15 to 20 years, yet it is coming. And I should not be surprised – we have had a six-hour debate earlier today, where the Progress Party has received accusations of bad weather in the West and allegations that we have taken life in connection with global warming – if we are to be blamed in the future for the fact that the international community is forcing Norway to change its agricultural policy. There is a repetition of Norwegian policy, and I am looking forward to the debate in five years' time.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e1876	The next speaker is Aud Herbjørg Kvalvik. Kvalvik has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e1879	Thank you, President. I'll be quick. To the representative of Nesvik, who wants to talk about fisheries. I would like to do that for a few hours tonight, but we'll do that at the next crossroads. He spoke of predictability for an industry that I would say had had predictability for many, many years, until a gentleman named Ludvigsen turned it around. I really believe that this led to a worsening of the situation. We got a policy that meant that the common good should be for a few quite few. They've been given an eternal testimony, and I'm very grateful that the government has now taken over that problem. I look forward to allowing us to take a broad approach to the structural policy for fisheries in the future in winter.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e1886	Several representatives of the Progress Party, including the Sandberg representative, are concerned with adult education. I have for the most part abandoned the idea of conducting adult training in front of the Progress Party. I just have to explain why I've turned down those thoughts. That is when Per Sandberg tried to reproduce what I said in my short article earlier this evening. What I said in my brief post was the following: there may be elements in the policy of the Progress Party that can have a positive effect on Norwegian society. It may be, but if it is in an area I am sure that the policy of the Progress Party is a disaster and a breakdown of Building Norway, it is in their agricultural policy. Instead, the representative Per Sandberg got this to be that I praised the policy of the Advance Party. It tells you how difficult this training is when you have students like that to deal with. I am very surprised that no further progress has been made in the Progress Party than that this is still being talked about by subsidising Norwegian farmers. One of the most important things in Norwegian society, which all of the Nordics do four to five times per. Day, is to eat food. Should we not have an agricultural policy in which we ensure that we produce a good portion of our own food, we would commit a great neglect in the Stortinget. We have to have an agricultural policy that ensures that we have food security, that we have safe food. We have to do that in the interests of the Norwegian population. In addition, we know that all the parties in the Storting, with the exception of the Advance Party, want living settlements and living districts, and in most of the rural areas, agricultural policy is very important to maintain today's settlement. To call it subsidies when it comes both to food production and to housing in Norway, I had hoped that the Progress Party had left behind. One of the most important things we politicians do in a country with 4.5 million inhabitants is to take care of the entire settlement from Nordkapp to Lindesnes. It's taking care of Norway's soul, which is that we've spread settlements, that we have people living in all the fjords, who live off the coast, and who live in the interior. That is what Norway is, and we must take care of that. This is why agriculture is so important.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e1898	The debate should probably go by night – I understand that. The representative Tybrung Gedde had a very clear conclusion as to who was worthy of the promises of tax relief by the Progress Party. They obviously do not benefit many in this society, as he notes that no one receiving subsidies from Norwegian society has to be able to count on the Advance Party’s tax relief support. It's for farmers. We understand that. We've understood that for a long time. We've always understood that. But obviously this applies to all industrial workers in Norwegian companies that have power contracts. This applies to all journalists in newspapers who have VAT exemptions. This applies to all cultural workers working in establishments supported by the State budget. Which one of us isn't that true? I suddenly understand now how the Progress Party can settle its budget, even though they do not balance very well on the bottom line what they present here in the house.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e1905	I record that the Progress Party had heard rumors that I had left the Storting Building. To that I can say that I am not doing so during such an important debate as the one that has been here today. I have sat in the office and followed what has been said. Based on that, I would like to ask some questions. First to Tybring-Gjedde, who says one should get paid based on what one produces. Can I ask how much he thinks that the representatives of the Progress Party should have had in wages, because they produce nothing at all! They're not in on a single majority in this house. All they produce is words and sour pudding! I feel sorry for Sandberg if he feels very hurt and that someone is saying that the Progress Party is pursuing a policy that goes in the wrong direction. But he really has to stand for it. For this government now finally leads a policy that allows us to use the whole country. This applies in relation to the local economy. We get better schools, we get better care for the elderly. This is true in relation to an active industrial policy, which has been a major shortage for several years. It is not least that we get full child care coverage, so that women can be allowed to go out to work. One gets more opportunities to switch between going out of work and being at home. But the Progress Party wants something else. That lot is based on something else. It is based on the provision of tax havens. It's based on the fact that we're not going to have public intervention. That is the basis of the Progress Party. But they're not talking about that. That's why I have a question at the very end, and it's, what does the Progress Party want with our society? I suspect that what they want is to be in constant opposition, because then they don't have to take responsibility at all. They can jump around and be angry all over the world and feel sorry for themselves. Until now they have at least shown nothing other than that in this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e1916	The President reminds us that it is a business debate we have here tonight.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e1919	I can reassure the representative of Klungland that I feel I have a better knowledge of trusted and elected representatives in the Progress Party than Klungland has, so we are in a very good mood. We are positive about the future, and we are looking forward to both 2007 and 2009. I can assure the representative of Klungland that the Progress Party must focus only on one thing, and that is on opportunities for people. It means, of course, that there will be a challenge for the representative of Klungland and for the government – that means. The representative of Klungland knows that too. I also registered that the representative Klungland earlier today signed up for a debate that had lasted six hours. The representative, Klungland, came in 12 hours with all his questions and sutures and complaints – that's not what he said – about what had happened in the debate, and especially about the Progress Party. Another thing I can assure Klungland about is that we're going to be in opposition. We're going to be in opposition until we get in position! That's what we hope and believe that people expect. My post was actually meant to be used to answer the representative Ryan. Ryan is a very capable politician, for whom I have great respect, and I understand his dialect, as I have been representing the same state for eight years. I remember eight years ago that the representative Ryan in a local in Trøndelag said that it would be a happiness for the Nord-Trøndelag if the policy of the Progress Party would only work in that region. The point is, now we've expanded that area. Now we want to spread the policy of the Progress Party beyond the North Trunde Team – to South Trunde Team, Oppland, Hedmark, Akershus – and that will be the best for everyone. The representative Ryan has a point, but he's missing the glue. Agricultural policy is important, and agriculture is an important industry. The situation we're in now is that there are other industries that take over the role of primary industry, among other things. in Finnmark, Troms, Nordland and Nord-Trøndelag, every now and then. It's the committee that you and I are responsible for, President – if I may say so – that's the transport committee. And SV and Inge Ryan are the biggest enemy in bringing about nutrition development. The agricultural industry also suffers from the failure of the infrastructure sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e1932	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1351]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e1949	No one has asked for the floor. [[Food, see page 1365]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e1966	No one has asked for the floor. [[Food, see page 1365]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e1974	The size must then vote on the case No. 1 to 4.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e1982	During the debate, 41 proposals were put forward. It's: the proposals No 1, 39 and 40, from Jan Sahl on behalf of the Christian People's Party proposals No. 2 and 41, by Mr Borghild Tenden, on behalf of the Left. 3-10, from Per Sandberg on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left Amendment No. 11, from Per Sandberg on behalf of the Advancement Party, Right and Christian People's Party proposals No. 12 and 13, by Per Sandberg on behalf of the Party of Presidents, the Right and the Left. 14 and 15, by Mr Per Sandberg, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, and Mr Right, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the EuropeanLiberal , Democrat and Reform Party( ChristianDemocrats ) and EuropeanDemocrats , on behalf of the EuropeanLiberal , Democrat and Reform Party( ChristianDemocrats) .16 , from Per Sandberg on behalf of the Progress Party and the ChristianPeople 's Party proposals No. 17 and18 , from Trond Helleland on behalf of theRight , ChristianPeople 's Party and the Left Proposals No.19-38 , from Per Sandberg on behalf of the ProgressParty First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. Two, from the left. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e3516	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 41, from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to establish close and committed cooperation with the local authorities of the North-Jären with a view to establishing a combined railway on the North-Jären once the double-track has been completed.’ The Christian People's Party has announced that they will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e3533	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1, 39 and 40, from the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e5167	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 19–38, from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e5300	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 17 and 18, from the right, the Christian party, and the left.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e5324	There is a vote on proposal No. 16, from the Advancement Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to present a case to the Stortinget in the Revised National Budget 2007, promoting a public fissure team with a significant State contribution to the financing of Hurtigrutemuseet in Stokmarknes and a superstructure for Old Finmarken’.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e5339	There is a vote on proposal No. 14, from the Advancement Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The budget asks the Government to ensure that the State funding share of transport projects involving toll financing is granted and paid in line with the project’s financial sharing assumptions’.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e5354	There is a vote on proposal No. 15, from the Advancement Party and the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e5374	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 12 and 13, from the Party of Advancement, right and left.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e5398	There is a vote on proposal No. 11, from the Party of Advancement, from the Right Party, and from the Christian Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Grand Duchy asks the Government of Revised National Budget 2007 to report on the bridge project to Jøa, rv 777 in the municipality of Fosnes in the Nord-Trøndelag.’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e5413	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 3-10, from the Party of Advancement, Right, Christian People's Party and Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e6959	The President assumes that the Advance Party and the Right want to vote against the Committee's position. - It's nodding. The President also assumes that the Christian People's Party and the Left will now support the position subsidiaryly. - It's nodding.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e6978	In the course of the debate, 16 proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1, 15 and 16, by Ingreigt S. Sørfonn on behalf of the Christian People's Party proposals No. 2 and 3, by Øyvind Korsberg on behalf of the Advancement Party, Right, Christian People's Party and Left Amendment No. 4, by Øyvind Korsberg on behalf of the Progress Party and Right-wing Proposal No. 5, by Øyvind Korsberg on behalf of the Progress Party, Right and Left – the President makes it clear that the Left in the vote has fallen out as motion for a resolution No. 6, by Torbjørn Hansen on behalf of the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left Draft No. 7-14, from Øyvind Korsberg on behalf of the Progress Party Proposals Nos. 1–15 is included in the vote, while proposal No. 16 is distributed in the hall. First of all, there is the vote on the motions for resolutions. 1 and 15, from the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e8611	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 7–14, from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e8671	There is a vote on proposal No. 6, from Right, Christian People's Party and Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to present a new assessment of the competition situation in the dairy sector in the Revised National Budget 2007, in particular if there is a need to improve the regulatory framework for private operators in order to ensure a genuine competitive environment. It must be assumed that they are in line with the objectives of agricultural policy and that agricultural cooperation must have a dominant role in the market in order to achieve these objectives.»
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e8686	There is a vote on proposal No. 4, from the Advancement Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to continue the system of foreign processing of Norwegian raw materials in accordance with the regulations applicable from 1 July 2005.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e8703	There is a vote on proposal No. 5, from the Advancement Party, Right and Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to wind up the district quota system.’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e8720	There is a vote on proposal No. 16, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking to evaluate the regional quota system based on the experience gained in 2006 and to return to the Revised National Budget 2007 with proposals for the winding-up or conversion of the scheme.’ The President assumes that the Progress Party, the Right and the Left now want to support the proposal subsidiaryly. - It's nodding.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e8739	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2 and 3 from the Party of Advancement, Right, Christian Party and Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e8763	The vote will then be taken on the proposal for a decision in the framework area 9.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e10501	The Progress Party has announced that it will vote against Framework Area 9.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e10514	The vote will take place at the end of the debate on the motion for a resolution tabled by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, under the chairmanship of the Committee on the Environment,
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e11198	Here, too, the President assumes that the Progress Party will vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e11212	The vote will take place at the end of the debate on the motion for a resolution tabled by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection under the heading 11.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e12445	Here too, the Progress Party wants to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e12448	The Party of Progress wishes to vote in favour of VII.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e12455	I can't.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e12458	It's okay.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e12465	Then we can forget about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e12468	At least I want it included in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e12475	All right. I can't. So this is area 11, and at least the Progress Party will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e12493	The vote will take place on the proposal from Mr Øyvind Korsberg on behalf of the Progress Party, submitted by the meeting of Mr Odelstinget on 5 December 2006: ‘The Government asks the Government to work for an international regulation to prevent the landing of illegal fishing catches.’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e12512	The vote will take place on the proposal from Mr Øyvind Korsberg on behalf of the Progress Party, submitted by the meeting of Mr Odelstinget on 5 December 2006: ‘The Government asks the Government to strengthen control at sea in order to prevent overfishing.’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-12-2.ana.ud1238e12534	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word under Section 37(a) of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
