ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07-2.ana.ud1908e30	and
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07-2.ana.ud1908e45	I have listened with interest to today's debate, which more than next year's budget has been about other matters. Firstly, how are we going to meet the critical supply situation we can get in Middle Norway? Secondly, why do we not get wind investments triggered? In the light of the debate that has taken place at this morning's meeting, I feel that this is a topic that I too would like to address in my article, where I would like to respond to some of what has been raised. With regard to Middle Norway, for a year I have been working intensively with a demanding situation due to a joyful industrial development in Central Norway, combined with a lack of investment in networks and production. This is a challenge to get in place. Let's be clear: this is not and has not been a simple situation. Some of the debaters have been most concerned about a date for an action plan, which, incidentally, has never been intended to be presented to the Stortinget. It was supposed to be the government's work document. But what have we done in the year that has gone on? Firstly, we have carried out a thorough survey of the situation in Central Norway – how demanding it can be, given different river basin conditions and given the different years to the time when we can expect to have permanent production in place. Investments in stress aid to increase transmission capacity have been facilitated. The connection between Norway and Sweden, the Nea-Jerpstream, will be completed in 2009. Statnet's good at it. Planning of the transmission connection between Sogn and Møre is well under way. It will not be completed until early 2011 to 2012, if the investment is carried out in line with what Statenet foresees. It is also now known that Statnett will be purchasing spare power. Besides, it's been working on several gas power projects. Forests that we've had close contact with for a long time, the Celestial Goods and Fränna. It has been designed to give priority to the work on energy efficiency and on renewable energy in this area. We have asked the NVE to give priority to this work in its concessional treatment. NVE will also increase the procedural capacity by about a year in the context of next year’s budget. 10 posts. Already in the winter of 2008, we need measures to provide a safe supply until new transmission connections and new production are in place. When the debate today puts Statnett's investment in reserve against investment in wind power, I have to say that it may indicate a lack of understanding of the challenges to be faced. Reserve power must be deployed next harvest. The size also has through the treatment of St.meld. No 18 for 2003–04 concluded that this is an instrument to be used. There is reason to ask: when Statnett considers this to be necessary on a professional basis, should the State Council then have reviewed a professional assessment by Statnett that this is a necessary measure to ensure the security of energy supply? Is there anyone in the Grand Duchy who intends to make a proposal that this should not be used, as you might get the impression in today's debate? On the contrary, this measure is fully in line with the majority of the comments in the vote that are being debated today. In addition, long-term measures are being taken, including: linked to Forest. Forests have been granted an extended concession to build gas power plants without new demands being made on Industrialkraft Mid-Norway, but the government has said that if the forest is realised, we will contribute to CO2 management in the same way as we do elsewhere. We have also had a thorough work on Statoil and Shell to see if it could be possible to carry out the project on the Tent Goods. It has proved not to be easy. We have also been able to sketch a project at Fränna with CO2 handling. Some words about wind power: NTE made yesterday a decision to invest in excess of NOK 1 billion in wind power. Some today have produced it as if NTE had scraped their wind energy plans. I doubt that NTE will invest over NOK 1 billion if this is a loss project. It was also said from the opposition that you had a better setup, a finished set of green certificates. In the budget position for 2000-2001, the majority asked for an investigation. As a result, the government said in the first place that it was going to be consistent with established goals and strategies, and that it was unfortunate to put what was being done through Enova. Then you put St.meld. No 9 for 2002–03, where a scheme was outlined. One year later, St.meld was presented. No 47 for 2003-2004, and then sent out a draft at the hearing in November 2004. The most important thing remained. Negotiations had not been conducted with Sweden on burden-sharing. It was the most important thing, and it was not done from the previous government, and it was there stranded. Green certificates were not an option. This government has presented a scheme that is a historical commitment to renewable energy.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07-2.ana.ud1908e81	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07-2.ana.ud1908e84	When I hear the Council of State, I think of an old saying, "Don't tell me how much you work, but tell me what you get done." There's certainly a lot to consider here, and we've heard of that for at least one year. But there are very few concrete plans that will be completed. And once they do, they have the opposite effect of what was meant. This is the case when we look at renewable energy – where the enormous effort to be the best of times ends with a four-page big message and a pile of cancelled projects. I get a little worried when more people in this room talk very positively about gas pipes to Grenland. So the government has adopted CO2 cleaning on Kårstø to billions of dollars, without saying how much it costs, without being able to say what the operating costs are, or what the consequences are purely technological. We've been investigating gas pipes to Grenland for seven years, but there's no government going to make a principle decision that it's going to be a state authority. The state has authority over all the main electricity infrastructure, but I record that they refuse to take the same principal responsibility for gas pipelines to Grenland. Can the Council of State provide any positive clarifications here?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07-2.ana.ud1908e96	I thank the representative for this opportunity to tell me what we have actually done, for I did not get it in my post. We have put forward a historical commitment to renewable energy, we are putting heavy emphasis on CO2 management, with a budget of 720 million. kr next year. The government has put in place an important management plan, and we have put in place an important agreement with Statoil on the handling of Mongstad. In a number of areas, important energy and environmental policy measures have been taken. In the case of gas pipes to Grenland, you are now in the final phase. Even before Christmas, Gassco shall present its report, which there is every reason to believe will conclude positively with respect to the commitment of the actors to be part of and use gas, so that this gas tube can be realized. As soon as that report is available, the government will start work to realize this, and we will then decide on the proportion of the state that has to enter the gas pipeline, in line with what is stated in the Soria Moria Declaration. There is no reason to so doubt the will to do this. It is true that the gas pipeline has been under investigation for a long time, but what this government has done is to get ahead of this and make sure that during the year that has now passed, a scheme is in place that will result in a positive result for gas pipelines to Grenland.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07-2.ana.ud1908e106	It's a paradox that one day you say yes to NOK 2 billion for investment in mobile gas power plants and the same day you get an overview that shows that nine out of ten wind turbines are not implemented because the government's investment in renewable energy is too poor. I have a question for the Council of State: when you see that many renewable energy projects are not being implemented – not because we in the opposition say that the scheme is not good enough, but because the various industries say it is not good enough – will the Council of State then go back into the matter and consider strengthening the scheme, so that there is greater certainty that all these projects will also be implemented?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07-2.ana.ud1908e113	It's not a paradox that Statnett is making the investment they're making. It is not possible for the representative Børge Brende to link this to the investments that will deliver on the network in 2009. These are two very different things. It is a pure insurance system Statnett does, in order to provide the people of Central Norway with a safe power supply from winter 2008 until permanent production can be in place. So to the matter of wind power. I sat down and read a little in old budget positions this morning while listening to the debate, and it is interesting to see that it is no more than four to five years since the Right actually proposed to wind up support, they proposed it removed in the budget position for 2000-2001 under the government of Stoltenberg. It is good that the Right also sees the need to stimulate the production of renewable energy. We're going to do that. I thought that the scheme that has been put forward will be sufficient, and the actors that are now believed to have an opportunity to push up the support you are going to receive, by saying that they are not investing, are wrong. It's a basis for investing, it shows the analyses that have been made. Investments should therefore be started as soon as possible. Nord-Trøndelag E-verk decided yesterday to invest over DKK 1 billion. I refuse to believe that it is a loss project.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07-2.ana.ud1908e120	A week and a half ago, we received a four-page growth message on renewable energy. There is nothing there that is new in relation to what was published in the press releases or in the St.prp. No 1 for 2006-2007. We can question whether the whole big message is really unnecessary. Today I've been having a little fun, I've been listening to Almlid, and I've been online and I've heard him many times in an interview he's given with the NRK. There he says about the following: the framework conditions of the state are too bad. We have to renegotiate with the authorities, and it would be a failure statement if we now have to put away all wind power projects. This is the first construction step, it's the easiest way to expand, so we could make that decision. The simplest construction step, but we have to go into further negotiations. My question will then be: Is the Council of State willing to revise to bring more money to this basic fund and also to allow the large-scale groups in this house to increase the level of support in the four-page message we are about to deal with?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07-2.ana.ud1908e129	It is absolutely right that the big message is on four pages. It was presented because the Stortinget asked for it. In fact, I prefer to present a big message on four pages that is targeted, and that says what we are going to do – instead of doing as the previous government, which put St.meld. No 9 for 2002–03, which describes what a green certification system is, then to present a new notification one year later, describing the process to be followed by a law to be passed at the hearing in 2004 and never being able to promote it. That's what the previous government did. There is a comprehensive set of documents that has been presented, but the result can be asked about. We have said that we want to strengthen the commitment to renewable energy, so that we can achieve the 30 TWh target. It is also communicated several times that we will aim for additional appropriations if necessary to avoid queues. And then we're going to have to hope that line occurs. I have already told the representative Børge Burnde that we will not now give any signals that the bets will be increased. So those who sit out waiting for it to happen as a result of the treatment you're now in are waiting in vain. Then it is better to start investing and make sure that we get new capacity on the web.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07-2.ana.ud1908e136	I am surprised that the Council of State is not concerned that two thirds of a wind power project that could provide 40,000 households falls into such a demanding area as this is. It surprises me that it doesn't make any sense by a showing willingness to adjust the framework conditions, so that this project can be realized. Instead, the Council gives the impression that what is now happening is part of an extortion strategy by the builders. It's a rather eye-catching reasoning. I would like to be confirmed – or at any rate cancelled – that that is what I heard. The Council of State indicated in a previous reply that what is now taking place in the North-Tronde Team is not a real decision based on the fact that the government’s support structure is too poor, but that it is a speculative scheme to push the Government to support renewable energy in a more comprehensive way.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07-2.ana.ud1908e145	That's by no means what I'm insinuating. Nord-Trøndelag Elverk has accepted investment decisions for more than NOK 1 billion. I appreciate that. Nord-Trøndelag Elverk must therefore build 20 windmills on the Outer Vikna, and they must complete Hundhammerfjellet windmill park with 11 windmills. What they say in the press release is: ‘On that basis, the Governing Board has chosen to go for a limited extension of the Outer Week in this round.’It is further stated: ‘Although we now choose to limit the expansion, the Governing Board’s decision constitutes an offensive commitment to further wind power expansion in the North Trøndelag.’ It is a positive decision taken on the part of the Nord-Trøndelag. I actually appreciate that. So I would have liked to have seen, like the representative of Kvassheim, that a decision had been made to implement this whole big investment in this round. It has already been divided into different stages of construction from the start. I would have liked to have seen a different decision now, because we need as much power as possible in this area, as quickly as possible, and preferably renewable power. I think that's the representative of Kvassheim and I'm 100 pst. agree. I take note that it has not been done, but I am all the more pleased that NTE is showing the way and adopting an investment of over NOK 1 billion.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07-2.ana.ud1908e162	I think it's a bit funny to hear the government councils and government party representatives present the government's energy policy effort as a historical commitment to renewable energy, when the truth is that we might rather talk about the energy policy of the times. Today we have heard that nine out of ten wind turbines are being scrapped. Then my question becomes to the Council of State: Does the Council not see that much of this lapse is due to the fact that the Government's support schemes for renewable energy production are not good enough, and that a certification system, as the Government shrank, would be a much better solution?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07-2.ana.ud1908e169	In fact, if Andersen’s representative were willing to turn significant costs over to consumers — in the event of a sharp increase in the electricity price — for a certification system, consumers would have to pay this over their electricity bill, without any guarantee that these investments would be made in Norway — then a certification system might have been better. If Torbjørn Andersen were willing to accept the demands that Sweden made – that Norwegian consumers would undertake to pay twice the Swedish bill – it would have been a better solution. But it was not possible to arrive at a balanced arrangement. The Progress Party criticises energy policy. But I have to say, after hearing Ketil Solvik-Olsen in a previous line change today, where he is taking the order to use the 2 billion that Statnet is now going to use on reserve power, to a pilot project on thorium, that it is the jam a bit of a greeting to send to the people in Middle Norway – a project that could have produced results in 20 years' time at the earliest. In fact, it is in 2008 and in the future that we need to secure the electricity supply to the population in Central Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07-2.ana.ud1908e176	That's the line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07-2.ana.ud1908e179	The opposition has expressed in this debate that this is a sad day. There are some of us who don't agree with that. But if there's any comfort to the opposition, we would have about 365 days each year in the last four years. It says well about the attempt to label the proposals of a political alternative. This government has shown the will and ability to reconcile the conflict between growth and protection. It is absolutely necessary to cope with this balance, as Norway faces some specific challenges related to the following: How do we increase our competitiveness in a more globalised society?How do we ensure energy security and make us less vulnerable to energy supply?How do we meet climate change? My argument is that these three challenges are closely linked. Economic competitiveness, energy security and climate change all point to higher investments in energy efficiency, increased research, energy conversion and a well-functioning power market. It requires a smooth balance between growth considerations and protection considerations. In the future, every industry must also be an environmental industry. One of the greatest social and political challenges of our time is climate change. Socially, climate change raises fundamental issues in relation to justice and equality, between generations and between rich and poor. The challenge is to ensure a fair distribution of rights and responsibilities. Politically, the challenge is to ensure the consent of citizens, businesses and other countries around the world for reducing emissions, new technologies and high standards. And that's important. The CO2 concentration in the atmosphere is now higher than at any time in the last 740000 years. This leads to an increase in temperature, which in turn will be partly responsible for extreme weather. All the 10 hottest years since 1850 have been since 1990. The consequences will also reach us. The facts that confront us in this matter are strong. On a rational basis, the debate on climate change is over, and the question now is how we should respond. The costs of seeking to prevent climate change will be lower than meeting the consequences. The challenge is to have enough political will to be in the forefront. So what does the government do? An energy fund has been set up, CO2 management is supported, petrol taxes are revalued and public transport is supported. Natural diversity is a high priority. The Ministry of the Environment's budget is increasing by 89 million. kr. It's particularly gratifying that they've got room for the small thing in general: the government is proposing an increase of 7 million. kr for the development of the green structure and the cultural environment in Groruddalen. At the same time, we in Oslo are concerned about particulate matter from road traffic and wood stoves. Last year there were 51 days when the level of suspended particulate matter in the Oslo air was illegally high. There is no reason to believe that there will be fewer days in the future. This is alarming. I'm especially concerned about the kids who grow up in town. For this reason, it is good that the budgetary note has now provided some information on how to follow the recommendations of State pollution control in the case of clean wood stoves. So we're going to find the best solutions. The state and Statoil agreement to establish the world's largest full-scale CO2 cleaning plant at the planned CHP plant in Mongstad is an excellent example in this way. The cleaning plant shall be clear by the end of 2014. The first stage of CO2 management shall be in place at the same time as the planned start-up of the thermal power plant in 2010. With this project it is written industrial and environmental history. We're going to build the world's largest full-scale CO2 treatment plant. At the same time, we are making an important contribution to increasing the country's power generation. It is a pleasure that the Government is working successfully for the right balance between growth and protection. This budget is the first step on such a road, and it makes this a fine day and a happy day – not a sad day.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07-2.ana.ud1908e225	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07-2.ana.ud1908e228	The energy crisis in Central Norway is well known to everyone. The economy, the individual population, poor and rich, is already hit today by higher electricity prices due to the introduction of its own pricing zone in the region. Is this what the Government means by having a ‘heart for the whole country’? Large amounts of energy from More and Romesdal are used to send gas from Worm Lange to Easington in England, thus contributing to the energy crisis. The same energy helps generate huge revenues back to the state, revenues that benefit the whole country. It is therefore very unfair that businesses and residents in Central Norway should take the bill. It must be allowed to call for the logic of a policy in which Norwegian State Power establishes itself with gas power plants in Europe and produces gas with today's technology, while Mid Norway, which has the gas right outside the door, experiences that Statnet invests in extremely polluting mobile gas power plants at a cost of DKK 2 billion, billion that should have been invested in modern gas power plants and new technology in Central Norway. The right considers that the Government must take responsibility and ensure that the period of highly polluting mobile gas power plants is as short as possible. The gas must be used in its own vicinity as soon as possible, where the need is greatest, and where the power-intensive industry is located. Gas power stations with today's technology and requirements for rapid clean-up will reduce imports of coal power and the use of environmental bombs, such as mobile gas power stations. The result is more and cleaner energy, even in a global context. Industrial power Moore submitted on 1 December its concession request for the construction of gas power plants at Hustadmarmor in Fränna, a gas power plant in which Hustadmarmor can make use of approx. 50 pst. of the CO2 in its own production, in addition to the organisation for CO2 cleaning. The gas power plant can be completed as early as 2010, if the Government will. It would be a belief that they would, after what I have read in the Claims of Time on 17 October. It says that Ola Borten Moe, a landfill politician, believes that the government can no longer say no if there are now applications for more gas power plants. It also states that there is a greater need for power in central Norway than in Mongstad, and that Hydro has a special responsibility to contribute constructively, as it is their plant on Sunndalsøra and Augra that is the direct reason why the region will now suffer a power loss. Right expects the Government to give priority to the application from Industriekraft Møre. It will also serve the global environment in the long term.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07-2.ana.ud1908e249	I just want to briefly remind you that the government has for a long time announced a review of the Energy Act of 1990. What the Government had to propose of changes to the law may seem somewhat unclear, but in any case it is that the Energy Act of 1990 made a very big step forward for Norwegian energy policy. I would like to say that a comprehensive reversal of the Energy Act must be seen today as completely out of date for most people, both inside and outside the Norwegian power industry. The Energy Act has come to stay. Even a red-green government will have to realize that taking the major changes in the energy law is almost impossible today. However, it is a partly serious problem that the Energy Act has not been able to provide sufficient new production capacity in Norway since its entry into force in 1991. The Norwegian and Nordic electricity markets have worked well on the demand side, but the market has not worked as well on the supply side because politicians have interfered and prevented the development of new production capacity. Time and again, we have seen examples of Norwegian politicians either rejecting or reducing good power deployments in Norway. Over the past 10–15 years, the majority of the population and the government have declined the expansion of around 4 TWh new power generation. I can mention examples like Upper Otta, Sauda, Svartisen and now last Weefsna. All are good examples of the fact that the political majority has stopped or limited the development of new demand for power generation in Norway. At the same time, we have seen that strange requirements for CO2 cleaning of gas power plants have also contributed greatly to training the construction of new gas power plants in Norway. Thus, the power market, including in the development of gas power plants, has not been able to function freely because of political intervention. I would also mention that the solution to Norway’s power policy challenges is not to expand even more sea cables or transmission lines abroad in order to import even more electricity into Norway. Norway must make great efforts to expand new production capacity here in Norway and become self-sufficient in electricity as quickly as possible. And building up increased production capacity in Norway should be one of the simplest issues in the world, because there are very few countries that have the same opportunities as Norway to master their energy challenges. Finally, I say, in Norway, we export twenty times more energy than we consume ourselves, and gas is a very good source of energy to solve the challenges we have on the energy side.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07-2.ana.ud1908e265	It was a disappointment that the State Council Odd Roger Enoksen did not mention the gas pipeline to Grenland with one word in his main post. He had to get into the theme first in the row. Border has a great need for natural gas. In one of the largest industrial areas in the country, an entire population now impatiently awaits the gas pipeline to ensure conservation and further development of the industry. A clarification of the Grenland gas pipeline is much of the key to whether projects are to be started. It's about growth in Norway. It was the Bondevik government and the Workers' Party that combined the basis for the realization of gas pipelines to Grenland, and it was in the previous ageing period. Then the state company Gassco was set up to investigate the project to realize the pipeline for the transport of gas. This work has taken time, but happily the company delivered a positive report this autumn. But afterwards, there has become striking silence from the government parties, and there was no information from the government council to the Stortinget. I therefore sent a written question to the Council of State, Enoksen, on 19 October, about when and in what way the Stortinget would be presented with the result of Gassco's work. The answer was disappointing and little concrete: first, the commercial basis must be clarified, and at the next milestone, the Stortinget must be informed in an appropriate way. So far, the Storting has not been properly informed. Nor does the State budget provide clarity. Four button lines about such a big case do not give the impression that the government prioritizes the matter. This stands in grievance of the promises made by the Workers' Party in opposition. The current representative Sylvia Brustad promised NOK 3 billion for the construction of a gas pipeline to Grenland. The employee party representatives from Telemark went up on the track accordingly. In the big election campaign, even Telemark Arbeiderparti promised that the gas pipe would be built, only a government change. The working party has created high expectations, but it now seems that the red-green government has taken a long break. The industry in Grenland has no time to lose, and the Council of State should today confirm that the gas pipeline is coming. It is essential that the industry in Grenland now has long-term and predictable framework conditions. The committee's comments from the government parties are positive, but far from clarifying. Not one government crown is set aside in the budget. The government parties just say that it is important to get a clear picture of the economic foundation of the pipe, and that it is important that the commercial actors show interest. I don't disagree with the views, but what about all the promises? I hope the Council of State can be more precise and clarifying than the government parties in the committee. It's the Council of State Enoch who's holding the cards. The play is his – and not just me, but an entire industrial community in Telemark is waiting for the start shot. This is when the Council of State has to say: Yes, the pipe is coming!
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07-2.ana.ud1908e282	I want to get back to the representative Heidi Sørensen's line to Børge Burnde earlier today. As we know, Stortingsretten Børge Brende has repeatedly stated – as was also said in the reply – that climate emissions are higher under the current Minister of Environmental Protection than they were when he was Minister of Environmental Protection. Where did he get that? We haven't got the figures for 2006 yet. What statistics is Børge Burne referring to? I take it as a matter of course that the Right and the previous government take responsibility for the amount of emissions in 2005. After all, we did not take over the government until a long time in October 2005. The figures we have show that emissions fell from 2001 to 2002. So the emissions increased by a total of 1.5 million. Between 2002 and 2004, when Børge Brende was Minister for the Environment, they fell again when he had joined the role of Minister for the Environment. It's strange, then, that a former state council repeatedly makes a large drop in height for itself, sending out false claims to the nation's population. Fortunately, the people out there understand this. So a little to the left: I don't think I got a response from the Left saying whether they agree or disagree that mobile gas/biopower plants will be put into a potentially difficult supply situation in Middle Norway in a year's time. I understand that it's hard for the Left to answer this, because there are no other alternatives in the short term. At the same time, I understand the problems left have, for the government that left was a member of, got nothing done to meet the problems in Middle Norway, even though they knew well about what we were going to meet. I ask again Left: What does Left think is the alternative to getting more power to Middle Norway already in a year?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07-2.ana.ud1908e293	The Soria Moria Declaration expresses the desire to use more domestic gas for industrial, energy and transport purposes. At the same time, the same document places great emphasis on active industrial policy. What unfortunately seems to be difficult for the Government is when these two things are going to be combined. That's where it's going to fail completely. An active approach to building gas infrastructure is obviously only of interest to the Government if the pipeline goes abroad and not to e.g. Grenland. I noticed that the representative Nordtun in his post spoke warmly about a gas pipe, and that the representative Aasland guaranteed a gas pipe. But as long as the council doesn't want to confirm a gas pipeline to Grenland, a commitment and contribution to the project, it's just words, and words don't build gas pipes. It's okay to wish yourself well, but it's not safe to get it. This has been a frustrating process for the inhabitants and industry in Grenland. There is no doubt that this is a necessary investment for the industry and jobs in the region to have good prospects for the future. It is therefore disappointing that the Workers' Party, when in government, asks for more investigations instead of clarifying the country's involvement in the gas pipeline to Grenland. For while the Government is sitting on the fence, without any direct involvement in the work of a gas pipeline to Grenland, decisions are being taken to participate in the CO2 treatment of gas power plants, which are absolutely unexplored in terms of economic contribution or social value. There's a lot of unknown here. What's scary is that whenever you want, investigations are not so careful, while other projects can obviously be investigated indefinitely. Even more daunting is the fact that, at the opening of this year's natural gas conference, the State Secretary of the Council of State, Anita Useth, expressed his opinion on the Government's involvement in the gas pipeline as follows: ‘At the same time, we are not interested in paying more than we need, so we will await clarification as to how many and which commercial actors commit to the project’. This is where you get a clear picture of the government's commitment. If the government waits too long for more investors, decisions may be made elsewhere, in other countries, in boardrooms around the world, to outsource the businesses in the border region that are users of gas. Then the basis for gas pipes disappears, and state councils, state secretaries and government can beat their breasts to say that now the government contribution is reduced to zero. I want the government to get down from the fence before it's too late, and give clear and binding signals about what the state is going to contribute, and what role it should play in further working on a gas pipeline to Grenland. Let me just end by stressing: now there is a need for political action, political courage and political determination, which the inhabitants of Grenland deserve.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07-2.ana.ud1908e314	Anyone who has followed a little bit in the energy debate here to land over time cannot have avoided noticing the inability to make decisions on energy issues. Constant delays and wings cause the uncertainty both inside and outside the energy industry to grow. It seems clear that this uncertainty causes operators in the industry to wait with or refrain from expanding energy production because the risk becomes too high. Both gas and renewable energy concessions remain unused. We therefore see that market mechanisms and existing instruments do not contribute to the necessary security of supply. What is the reason for this refusal? Some have pointed out that the Government lacks a mandate to use the necessary tools. In order not to be on the law, the Christian People's Party has put forward proposals to amend the Energy Act which will give governments a clearer mandate to ensure the start of new energy production. We believe that we need a law that clearly places the responsibility for the security of supply at the Government of the responsible State Council, and that gives the State of the Government the right and obligation to ensure that new production is achieved in individual cases where the market fails, by not investing in new production in time. Special attention has been paid to the power situation in Central Norway. The Christian People's Party, together with the Left, has proposed that Central Norway be designated as a laboratory for the development of renewable technologies. There is an enormous potential for the use of renewable energy, not least in Central Norway. This must be achieved as quickly as possible so that temporary solutions such as price ranges and highly polluting gas power stations can be phased out. Wind power and small power must be built where, for environmental reasons, they can accept this. The Low Emissions Committee has identified the need for offshore wind technology development as a very important alternative. Offshore liquid windmills will be able to move wind power generation to areas where adverse effects are minimal and the energy supply is almost unlimited. However, a pilot plant must be established as soon as possible. Does the government promise that a pilot plant for offshore wind power on deep water will be put in place, or is the Council's billions reserved for fossil energy production? And there are also different technologies on the user side that need to be more widely used. Pure-burning stoves were translated into the Government's rapid support scheme for households, despite the fact that, after electricity, they are the main energy carriers for households. Let's get a regional aid scheme for wood stoves in central Norway and support schemes in the big cities. It could also provide a counterweight to the disadvantages imposed on the part of the country through, among other things. a dedicated price range. Finally, we need a long-term energy plan for Middle Norway as soon as possible, but also for the country as a whole, where it is important that the Government now shows its power of action and its ability to think in the long term.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07-2.ana.ud1908e328	In my article I want to focus on Document No. 8:111 for 2005-2006. In the summer that passed, we have experienced the worst herrings from predators in the North Throne Team. It's been worse than ever, and it also shows the numbers that were presented on September 20. It gave little reason for optimism and cheers, the damage figures in the Nord-Trøndelag have gone right to the weather. More than every four ovine animals detected or assumed to be taken by predators in Norway are taken in the North Trøndelag. It is shameful and sad to record that every four gaupe-killed sheep and four out of ten bears-killed sheep are in the North Throne Layer. What's also changed a little bit in relation to before, and that makes the situation much more dramatic, is that bear, among other things. draws more and more densely constructed strips. We've seen bears that haven't been far from house nova to people, and not far from where the children travel when they're going to school. Yes, in the fall we were actually witnessing that a car on Snåsa, on a side road, collided with a bear. Then we have a situation that we can no longer accept. It is also interesting to note the statements made to the Nations on 9 October this year by the head of the State Department of Natural Resources, SNO, Kjartan Knudsen: ‘This must not be seen as the overall damage image. Only a small part of what is lost is recovered.’ This means that the situation is much worse than what you've actually registered. It is also sad to note that today's debate and voting are a complete turnaround from the Centre Party. I record that the Senterpartiet has chosen government over its predatory policy – it has thrown its predatory policy overboard. I'm registering that when we treated St.meld. No In the spring of 2004, the Centre Party and the Progress Party agreed on several proposals. There were a number of proposals, including on the emergency court. I register today that the Centre Party is voting against the proposal of the Advance Party, which is a witness to the turnaround in this matter that the Centre Party has done. I note that the policy pursued today is a slow but safe closure of the rural economy in the districts. It may be a desired policy from the Government, and if so, they are unfortunately well in progress. I recommend that the minister take a walk and talk to the affected, talk to those who have experienced the loss of their animals, so perhaps the minister and the government too would get a completely different view of the damage picture and the situation that prevails in the North Trøndelag at the moment, and perhaps they had changed their predatory policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07-2.ana.ud1908e348	I'll try to turn the debate even a little bit more over from gas to predators, which is important to many. In the districts, there is little to create such a debate as for or against predators. Roughly and simply told, the people who live in the city, too, and those who live in the countryside, are against. And that might be natural. Even stronger, of course, are those who live by buffalo, those who have been hunting as income or as recreation and hobby, as well as those who want to use nature for experiences without fear of encountering predators, and then perhaps especially the wolf. Extra evil is it in the counties bordering on Sweden. Here, the number of predators is considerably larger than elsewhere in Norway, and so we get a large number of predators that cross the border according to their needs. The problem is that these wolves, which to a large extent are on the Norwegian side, are not taken into account, otherwise we would have a number of predators clear over the stock target Norway has set itself. Of the states that are particularly heavily affected, Hedmark is. So strongly affected is the district that the Food Authority announced a grazing ban for some of those who were operating with sheep in the fall. The father that they were taken by predators was so large that they had to be kept at home. This, of course, created problems in several ways. The most difficult was that the buffalo had to have food, and they had to graze on the soils that would produce high for the winter season. This, of course, also created a lot of extra expenses as well as a lot of extra work for the individual user. To the very matter of predators. It is strange that no more parties and individual representatives follow the proposals of the Progress Party. Many of us remember, among other things. The representatives of the centre party, who traveled the country and the beach around and defended the farmers' use of the field and said that you should feel safe when you travel out in nature. We were happy to hear this, as it was in line with the vision of the Progress Party. But what happens when we have opportunities to do something? Then the Center Party withdraws, and the government party's district representatives are absent. Could it have anything to do with the proposal coming from the Progress Party, or was it not the whole and full truth that emerged during the election campaign? In my time as a bigotry politician, many concerned people have contacted me about predators. They've been afraid of their nutritional basis, they've been afraid of their animals, their children or their own safety. They have been so committed that they have said that I could use their name from this pulpit and say that they are proud of the Central Party in this matter. If the Center Party failed, they would never vote on that party. For those parties and representatives, inter alia: from the District Working Party, today must be one of the worst. Today they had the opportunity to realize their promises. One thing that is certain is that the more predators, the larger and more conflicts. Finally, I must say that a good and sensible predatory policy is a good and sensible district policy. If the territories are to survive, man must rule, not the predators.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07-2.ana.ud1908e367	In order to succeed in environmental policy, we depend entirely on bringing with us the broad population. I don't think it's such that everything can be controlled from this room, and that with our good ideas we can change so many attitudes. There are many good solutions available locally and through local involvement. We politicians can help show the way. Storing and government can help show the way. But I believe that if a dry and willing to give responsibility to the regional level, to the local level, many good solutions can be found on climate issues, on protection issues and on a wide range of environmental issues. I believe it is important that, through our protection policy and our predatory policy, we do not create such a large local mobilization against environmental policy that we lose many we could have on the team. We cannot have a policy where we have protection for the sake of protection, where we count percentages rather than species, where principles become more important than reality, and where we see that the consequences of, for example, predatory policies make important grazing landscapes with important red-listed species disappear. I have grown up in an administration tradition and have faith in managing, not in unilateral protection. When we see the challenge in relation to red-listed species in Norway, we see that a very large proportion, up to 35 pst. of the endangered red-listed species are in cultural landscapes, in grazing landscapes that are growing again. I think it is important to discuss environmental policy and the future management of environmental issues, to have a management that is as local and as regional as possible, so that you can find good local and regional solutions and find practical solutions. A good example of how well this can work is from Akershus, where the county opened up for expansion in the beach zone, while the county community said no. The county and local politicians have been more restrictive than the state representative. If you dare to give responsibility to the local and regional level, I think you can find many good solutions. Finally, in the case of predators, it has been important to raise the debate so that more actors can participate in it. That is why I am pleased that the Government has now decided to grant 1 million. kr to the People's Action new predatory policy, which enables us to produce more strong and powerful voices in the predatory debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07-2.ana.ud1908e380	This has been a very debate marked by energy policy issues, which are crucial for the environment debate, but we have talked relatively little about the Ministry of the Environment's budget and the functioning of the Ministry of Environment. Over the past few years, and especially in the time when Børge Brende was Minister for the Environment, there has been an increasing conflict about environmental protection policies in Norway. It has come as a result of a very offensive and, in part, aggressive protection policy in which only a small part of the crime was committed to hearing the local population before decisions were passed in the government. The first protection process in Trillemarka was such a classic example. The then state council did not even take the time to visit the local environment, get involved and talk to those who lived there. I believe that today's government, today's Council of State, has been involved in turning around. There have been visits to Trillemarka, the arguments put forward by local representatives have been heard, and we are now in a process of resolving this matter, as well as many other safeguards. It is – and should be – important for us to try to bridge this growing conflict, so that environmental policy in the future does not become a conflict between city and country, does not become a conflict between classical nature protection and the administration tradition, and does not become a conflict between national government and bureaucracy. It is our responsibility for politicians to be involved and contribute to it. It's the Central Party's intention to make a positive contribution. Then an attempt is made to draw up a new predatory debate on the part of the Progress Party and the Right. I experience that the Right Party, and partly the Christian People's Party, is using every opportunity to distance themselves from the predatory settlement they agreed to enter into a year and a half ago. I think that is a good thing. But it is a fact that these parties must take responsibility for the predatory policy we are pursuing today, because it is the report of predators and the broad agreement of predators that underpins the government's policy. We have been able to change the rules on compensation, and this summer we have already notified by a letter from the Minister for the Environment and the Minister for Agriculture that the emergency protection will be reviewed as soon as possible. It's a work that's going on, and it's a work that we obviously have ambitions. Of course, the fact that we are not jumping on a proposal from the Progress Party and the Right today that we should file a case for a change in the emergency court before 1 May is not an indication that we disagree with that. It's just an expression that we define our own agenda and our own approach to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07-2.ana.ud1908e395	There is a lot of one could say about the Right Action in this debate. Although we are going to sweep our own door in environmental matters first and foremost, I want to give the representative Ivar Kristiansen a boost for two issues he raised related to environmental issues. One was the interaction with Russia on environmental issues. On my many visits to Russia as head of the Nordic Council Environment and Energy Committee, I have absolutely confirmed the need for enhanced cooperation. The northern dimension of the EU, including Norway, and the Nordic Council’s cooperation programme with North-West Russia are just opening up to dialogue and further enhanced action within the programmes already in place. This is very important. I also agree with Ivar Kristiansen in his assessment of the Nairobi Conference that it meant a step forward for environmental work in the world. I have attended several of the UN's major climate conferences, and there is now clearly a greater understanding that the global challenges require inter-national interaction. Several nations have responded to the issue of action and more dialogue and may subsequently participate in the processes leading to an agreement on action. I listened with interest to a representative of the NGOs in Africa who raised a thought-provoking question. He said something like that: you from the rich countries can't just come and visit Africa and talk, go out to nature reserves and look at our animals, and then go home with polluting planes and live like before. – This is an unpleasant and pressing challenge. So a short visit to where I started. It sounds like the representatives from, among others. The right, the front and left are of the opinion that a spare power should be released if only a set of wind is put in place. So if you were not to bet on the reserve power – if it was necessary to put it into use – then you could not have the stable wind power you need in mid-Norway. That's why I think this is a strange argument that's not related.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07-2.ana.ud1908e409	I have to say I am disappointed that the Council of State in its main post chose not to say anything about the gas pipeline to Grenland. As for his line, I really only remember one word: it was a report, a report, a report. It has been frustrating to wait for a government commitment when both the Labour Party and the Progress Party were willing to grant money to a gas pipeline to Grenland as early as 2003. Sylvia Brustad said in 2003 in a comment in Dagbladet: It is now time for political action and foresight, not more investigations. Nevertheless, in retrospect, they have been hiding behind Gassco and waiting for new investigations. Needless time has been lost. In fact, if the State had taken a clear responsibility for the construction and operation of a gas pipeline in 2003, investors had already been in place, and gas consumers had had gas supply contracts from Grenland. Instead, you've been on a desertless trek where no one knows what the state wants. The Government shall not boast an active industrial policy in this matter. It has been wonderful for the people of Grenland and politicians to observe how loose the money has been in other matters, such as: CO2 treatment plants. The requirements for investigations into these projects have not been similar to those required for gas pipelines to Grenland. At the same time, it is important that the Government puts all its weight in identifying the opportunities that one can see lying in a branch pipe to Sweden, Denmark, and perhaps even to Poland. Governments and their agencies should also see if it is not possible to speed up the progress plan under which Gassco operates. Governments now also have on their pult an application from Skagerak Energia for the construction of gas power plants on Hereya, and soon receive a new application for a gas power plant on the Slagentang in Westfold, which I hope he will clarify in the near future, as these investments will mean a great deal for the development of the gas pipeline project to Grenland. Unlike the Government, which seems to have been very sceptical about depositing money in terms of gas pipes to Grenland, I'm sure this is a good investment. In fact, there are some actors who do not want to commit at this stage, as they would have preferred to see the State as an active actor in the pipeline to Grenland. At the same time, it has been surprising to note that a government which, up to the degrees, is concerned that the State should have a hand on the steering wheel in the case of large Norwegian companies and central infrastructure, in this case has acted exceptionally passively and will leave the ownership of the gas tube to commercial companies. However, if the investigation requirement is to be at the level set for the gas pipeline to Grenland, in order for the State to be involved in other infrastructure investments, I am afraid this government will not reach much before it has to go off, hopefully in 2009. I had hoped and expected that the Council of State had today said a clear and tumultuous yes to gas pipes to Grenland.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07-2.ana.ud1908e435	One of the things the red-greens were most concerned about in the election campaign was the so-called industrial power regime. We see that many process companies around Norway are struggling. In the spring it became known that Elkem's plant Bjälvfossen was to be laid down and moved to Iceland. Then Minister of Oil and Energy Odd Roger Enoksen went out and decided that they should wait until this fall, because then they would get answers from the Government on how to design a future industrial power regime. Unfortunately, Elkem made the decision that it would be closed, regardless of what the Council of State said. It was stupid, sin. But if they had waited for answers from the Council of State, it would have begun to hurry. I would like to ask the State Council, Odd Roger Enoksen, now, at the bottom of this debate, to briefly explain to the European Parliament about progress. Would the Bjälvfossen have received an answer before Christmas, or is it enough a delay? That opposition is frustrated, is that it must remind the Government – at least when it is a majority government – of it, whether it promises something and it doesn't hold it. That's what I think is our job in a government: to fill our role as opposition. Of course, you can dislike it, but that's what matters. There's been a lot of broken promises. At least as well this new renewable fund would be, said the Norwegian Council of State on 15 March. It did not happen when you look at the support schemes in our neighbouring countries, and now the renewable project is not being implemented. It was not going to be a separate price range for Middle Norway, said the Council of State. On 20 November it became a separate price range. There was to be an action plan to combat the power crisis in Central Norway early this fall. The action plan has not arrived. The Minister for the Environment said that there would be no polluting mobile gas power plants. Then it was supposed to be that those who came, if any, were to be fired with bioenergy. In the course of the day it boiled down to the fact that now maybe two are going to partially go on bioenergy, and one cannot go on bioenergy. Then there was gas pipeline to Grenland, which was another important matter. There you show a syrup stance from the Government. The opposition now only points to the lifting break and to the inertia that is. I hope that I stimulate the Government to speed up and deliver what they have promised.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07-2.ana.ud1908e452	In Political Quarter this morning I heard the Minister of Oil and Energy talking about a short-term and a long-term plan for Middle Norway. As far as the long-term is concerned, it is difficult because the players, i.e. the industry, have to make the decisions. Here Christian People's Party has delivered a Document No. Eight proposals to clarify the responsibility for security of supply and to give the state a right and an obligation to start new power generation if the market is not functioning – to give a helping hand in a situation that we are now facing. With regard to the short-term plan, which was also discussed on the radio, NTB today refers to the Prime Minister. Four out of five points were launched by the Bondevik government. We set up the Energy Fund, 650 million. kr., Enova was strengthened – and a strategy in relation to waterborne heat and transmission lines to Klebu and from the Worm Lange – just to mention something. Governments waved some papers here instead. That's all right. But I think the Council of State will realize that that fanning is not so good when it comes to comparing the thin four-page staging message with what he waved with. A crash message does not give any powers to the Government. But the government needed powers, which it got through the treatment of the state council fanned with. I have listened to this debate and many from the government parties have said that they have delivered. It seems that it has been delivered, as it has probably been a lot of internal work. But the challenge is that the industry does not experience it that way. It has even been said by government representatives that it is regrettable that it will not be fully developed by Vikna. We are sincerely hoping that there will be an expansion of Vikna, since it has been said by government representatives in line changes. In the case of gas pipes to Grenland, Eastfold and West Sweden, there is a great deal of agreement on this, too, it has been claimed. That's good, because it's important for the case. But if there were no fundamental differences in the two comments that exist, I have to ask why the majority did not go into the comments that were already in the committee position. Finally, Ola Borten Moe is talking about building a bridge. Voluntary protection is bridge construction. I miss the centre party in the comments on voluntary protection processes in the vote on today's budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07-2.ana.ud1908e469	A week ago tomorrow, the government presented its Northern Territory Strategy in Tromsø with great words and views for the northern regions, and with a foreign minister who proclaimed that now the government had taken the Northern Territory Strategy ashore. It stunned many people and wondered what that was really supposed to mean. It's going to be a little bit more than a big word to keep people in the northern regions and in northern Norway working. It is no secret that there are particularly high expectations of what the ring effects of the petroleum industry could mean for the northern part of the country. If these expectations are to be met, the activity in the north must be up, not down. The largest government party, the Workers' Party, has been particularly concerned with presenting itself as the guarantor for continuing large – and larger – oil operations in the north. But the government has a problem when there are two government councils in this room with some conflicting interests. The Minister of Oil and Energy has promised more activity in the north, while the Minister of Environment will protect more in the north. The question then arises as to whether there is a kind of balancing point which should nevertheless provide viable conditions for new off-shore industrial activities in North Norway. At least that balance point has not been found in the Bøkfjord in Kirkenes. It is now a reality that the SFT has said no to continued oil reloading in Bøkfjorden. These activities have meant valuable deliveries of different types of goods and services from the Church community. Oil reloading has taken place in very controlled and ordered forms, protected from storms and factors that may affect that type of activity, and it has been done in an environmentally sound manner. There has been no accident in relation to the activity that has been there. I now allow myself to challenge the Minister of Environmental Protection whether this is the last word that has been said in this matter, whether the Government has actually intended to turn the thumb down for further activity in the Church. Locally, it is now noted that the consequences of SFT’s refusal will be that the expected oil activity in South Varanger may have been cancelled before it has started. The SFT's refusal is interpreted as excluding, for all time, the location of oil activity from the Kirkenes and Süd-Varanger, despite the high expectations that one should be able to do so in that part of the Barents Sea. Locally, you're left with the impression that the environmental movement has got a full count, and that it's the population and the people who're going to have something to live on up there, who's left in the taperbua. I also remember, as a representative has done here before today, that it is a government that has submitted a big message that one should have the “heart of the whole country”, but obviously one does not have the “heart” of the churches.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07-2.ana.ud1908e486	First, I'm going to take a very small visit to the representative Yrvin, who is busy with suspended particulate matter in Oslo. I believe that on that occasion it is timely to warn against the increase in suspended particulate matter, NOx and sulphur emissions that will result from the government's new car charges. I also look forward to our joint correction as soon as possible and would like to be revised. Then I think that when we first argue as much as we do – and have done today – in this room, I think it is also good to point out that the two posts held by the representatives Battle Violence Vedum and Borten Moe from the Center Party, I am very much behind. I have no idea that the government is in charge of the policy that they are talking about, but I agree with many of the conclusions that they drew. As far as predatory policy is concerned, I think it is important to point to a material thing, and that is that the stock targets that this hall has adopted against the votes of the Central Party and the Advance Party are very close. We have a cloud-high level of conflict in very many states, but the stock targets have not been reached. This applies both to wolves and, in particular, to bears. So when you attack us for a rematch – the Progress Party was not on the compromise, but it was on the right – I think there is reason to point out that there are many more wolves in Sweden today than it was when the predatory compromise was reached. There are many more border wolves, and there are actually so many wolves in the border population that there are larger numbers than the national population. This I don't think the majority of people could predict when we made the deal, and I would like to point out that there is a very good reason to take a new debate on these things today. In trøndelag you have to have four breeding bears. You don't have one today. Four breeding bears in Trøndelag – in a few municipalities in the Nord-Trøndelag – will mean that there will have to be a place between 40 and 60 adult bears in the Trøndelag counties. This is not to be combined with the maintenance of the off-road industries in Hedmark, Akershus, Eastfold, Trøndelag and Nordland. I think that's a confession we have to take over. So you could say it's okay, it doesn't take the whole thing so much. But the consequence of maintaining today's predatory policies is that there will be no off-road industries to any extent left in these regions. Then we might get a beautiful day a new predator policy, when the predators – the bear and the yerven – have spread well down the West Coast to More and Romesdal, to Sogn and Fjordane, to Hordaland and perhaps also to Rogaland, though it may be a little bit to take in. For then, predator policy – or the lack of a sensible predatory policy – affects many more voters and many more magnification representatives, and then I trust that we will have a change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07-2.ana.ud1908e503	I will first correct the Danish State Council when he claims that the Advance Party will rather grant money to thorium power stations than to mobile gas power plants. That's wrong. When I mentioned NOK 2 billion for the mobile gas power plants, it was of course to illustrate the sums. For the price of three mobile gas power plants, half of the largest industrial project in the world can be financed, but when we talk about mobile gas power plants, it shows that it costs to pursue a wrong energy policy. Action paralysis has a price. It's not like if we just leave anything to do, the problem goes over. The price in this round is 2 billion kroner. How much is it going to be next time? I dare not think about it. If we had got a big power project at an early stage instead, we would have avoided the need to have mobile gas plants, that's the point of the opposition. I hope that Asmund Kristoffersen gets with him. When Asmund Kristoffersen in his posts owes to former governments and former magnificence, he has to ask the Labour Party the question: Where was it the party when the Worm Lange decision was made? The working party had no comments on the power situation in More and Romesdal – none! The fact that the Bondevik II government is the only one who owes it will be quite debatable. After all, it was the Workers' Party that in its time, through the New Year's Eve to Jens Stoltenberg, stopped the hydroelectric power plant in Norway. You have to take responsibility for that. Then I register lots of boasts about Kårstø and how much money is granted. However, good environmental policies have nothing to do with the amounts allocated, but with the measures implemented. No one here mentions the total cost, and no one here mentions the environmental impact. And, for information to the Minister for the Environment: there is no planned technology development in relation to Kårstø – at least not if you ask the Minister for Oil and Energy. So to say that in the post is going to be pretty cowardly. We also have to ask the question, for the 720 million. kr as the Stortinge grant now, without having any idea of how this will finally be – what other environmental effects could be obtained for the same sum? No one in government has thought about it. I think it is a matter of concern to grant so much money without the Stortinget getting a real case about it at all. One can set it up against the Tjeldbergodden and Mongstad – there is not a single crown granted, despite the fact that everyone boasts that it is what is the «monthly landing project». You're not coming to the moon without money, unfortunately. Nor are there any fundamental clarifications from the Government regarding the gas power project in general. It makes most things lie in the initial pit without moving on. Many people say we have to wait for the "Tjeldbergodden" – the actors have to finish their projects. Yeah, well, on Kårstø and Mongstad the government had ambitions. Where are the ambitions of the tabernacle god? They're gone. And then finally boasted about gas power and CO2 cleaning: yes, many people ask how Norway does it, but that's because the same countries run their own CO2 clean-up projects. The difference is that in the United States, England, Denmark and the EU, they try to clean coal plants. That's where the gain is environmental. It's not the gas power plant the world will start to clean if they get the chance. It is not surprising that they are asking about Norway, because it is completely meaningless politics that we are pursuing.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07-2.ana.ud1908e524	I think it will be noticed that the Council of State takes the decision on the third extension of the Outer Vicna wind farm to income for the support scheme provided by the Government. It says in what has been sent from the board that the decision is taken despite the fact that one has a support scheme that makes this not profitable and justifies it with an exposure to a plant that produces wind turbines. I think it's very important that someone take over the results that one now sees of this support scheme. The council says that he has worked hard to facilitate new power generation in Central Norway. The result of the last month's work is that two thirds of this project, which could provide 40,000 households, is being scrapped, and nine out of ten other wind power projects are being put on hold. This means that the effort you make gives negative and not positive results in relation to this specific area and in relation to the country as a whole. Today we record that the Prime Minister has been in Kristiansund and promised support for gas power plants in Forest. It would have been natural that the Council of State had used the opportunity to clarify what kind of support it is the Government is thinking of. When does one want to contribute to the realisation of this installation? And it might be interesting to hear the Minister for the Environment's assessment of whether the gas power plant in Forest can be realized without demands for cleaning from day one, as the concept is based on. At all, it would be useful for the Storting to get an overall presentation from the Government of how one wants to respond to the different gas power projects that are now going on: Which of these is it a seem to be the most interesting? Which is it a desire to support? And when does one want to do that? Torny Pedersen asked what was the Left's strategy to solve the challenges in Middle Norway. We have described this well in a number of other debates on the same theme in Stortinget. We support a number of the measures outlined by the Council of State. But we do not support mobile gas power plants. We want to bet on mobile biopower plants, and I show you, among other things. letters from Zero to the members of the Committee today, indicating that such equipment is available. One of the reasons why the Left is very sceptical about purchasing mobile gas power plants and combining them with weak support for renewable energy sources is that this is not just an emergency solution, but that it is a support wheel to be used as part of the government's holding energy policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07-2.ana.ud1908e539	First of all, if, at a time when we have permanent production in place in Central Norway, which is absolutely necessary to get in place, Statnett comes to the conclusion that the mobile gas power plants will no longer be needed, they will be completely negotiable. Even the costs of renting during this period may be higher than the cost of selling them afterwards. There's a little bit left to see, there's a little bit ahead of you. But of course that possibility is present. I'm going to try to answer some of the things that have been raised, starting with the question from Børge Burnde in relation to the industrial power regime and the work going on there. There is no reason to hide that there is a demanding job. I've also given expression to many times. The EEA Agreement limits what kind of space of action we have in relation to that work. The competitive situation of the industry is not a curious problem. This is why the EU has also launched a work to be completed in the spring of 2007. I have had many conversations with industry and with the workers around this relationship, and most, including the undersigned, are of the opinion that it makes sense to wait for the work that the EU is now doing, to see how far it is possible to co-operate with the Norwegian system that we are working with, the one that the EU is coming to. I have also had close contact with both the European Commissioner for Energy and several of my colleagues on this subject. Then it is also the case that the contracts entered into under St.prp. No 52 for 1998-99, has a clause which implies that some of these are problematic. We now go to ESA to talk to ESA about whether it can be possible to change those contracts, so that they will be adequate in relation to the needs of the industry. In the case of Elkem Bjälvfossen, we have been in close dialogue with them. And Elkem Bjélvfossen did what I asked. We had close contact over the winter and discussed the framework conditions for the Bjälvfossen, but it was not possible to arrive at a system that would be satisfactory for that company overall. What we have done, on the other hand, is that we have entered into close cooperation with the Ministry of Economic Affairs, Trade and Industry, the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs and the Ministry of Oil and Energy, in order to get to the conversion project that Elkem is working on, which is a good conversion project in this area, and which also has full integration from the workforce. The time doesn't allow me to get answers to so many questions. But in any case, to answer Ketil Solvik-Olsen's question about Mongstad: The government will come back to the Stortinget with a review of the Mongstad project in spring 2007, including the budgetary effects. However, it must not be forgotten that the Mongstad project is a project that will progress far in time and will be implemented in several phases. It also implies that the Stortinget will be presented in several stages.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07-2.ana.ud1908e552	Only a few words to conclude in the debate, and first of all to the gas pipeline to Grenland, which has been mentioned a few times now. I want to underline one thing, and that is that we are in a phase now where Gassco, the company that this hall among others. have asked for further consideration of the issue, putting the last hand on the work with regard to the closure phase in order to move towards a pre-projection. So there are now negotiations on ownership and gas volumes in the further work. Gassco, after what I have heard, has an ambition to conclude on this work on December 15. So the government has now decided to deal with the process that Gassco outlines. And I want to stress that it comes after a recommendation from Gassco, which may be the best professional community not only in Norway, but in Europe on that particular topic. I think it's quite valuable to focus on that process. So the Council of State really says that he's clear just these clarifications have taken place. It makes me pretty safe, as well as being a total mass that really wants the same thing. So the Christian People's Party representative played a little game that there was a difference in the comments here. When I read it, maybe for the third and fourth times, I don't find any difference in principle. We want the same thing in this room, and we actually have the same use of words in the notes. We might have spent time unifying ourselves in front of this debate, but we haven't, and it's a majority and a minority. I am quite certain that the majority is clear and clear about what it wants, among other things. by following up the Soria Moria Declaration, which clearly underlines that the State is going into the financing side. It's reassuring. So to something that the representative Torbjørn Andersen took up, and that concerns the Energy Act, which the government parties have clearly announced that one should have a review of. One really doesn't want so many changes until one has been evaluated and got the picture complete. But the representative Andersen points out something of the essence. He says it has become a serious problem that the law has not contributed to investment. Nevertheless, they will not evaluate the law, nor will they recognize that it is perhaps the market that is the reason why it is not being invested. Similarly, he says that the CO2 interference to which this government is now adding up is helping to stop the gas power projects. Then I want to underline one thing, and that is that Andersen's opinion must be based on errors, because it has never been promoted as many interesting projects on gas power plants with CO2 management as in the last few months.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07-2.ana.ud1908e569	It was with wonder that I heard this evening the second article by the representative Børge Brende, and that he actually gave so much attention to entering the industrial power regime. The representative, Mr. Børge Brende, could consider the case in relation to the Right's past. I know it very well. It was in the last period, and the Right had the Minister of Energy. Time and again, questions were raised about industrial power contracts in Norway, their importance and their development. What was the Right answer at that time? We don't do anything about this, it just has to go its own way. That was the answer from the Right – no doubt about it. Then we had the goal of taking on this work as soon as we got into the government position. So let's do that. The work isn't over, we see what difficulties we have, but we try, because we see the importance of getting it in place. But then Børge Burnde comes up and says, incredulously almost, yes, the industrial power regime, we have to do that, and we have not done that before, but it was remarkable that we should not have it now! The right answer was before: we don't take that at all; it gets to sail its own sea. So Børge Brende is calling for an action plan – and we are going to bring it – for the power situation in central Norway. Where was the Right in the four years of the Action Plan? We have started the Kårstø facilities, we have completed a negotiation with Mongstad, we are in the process of the Tjeldbergodden and Skogn. Nothing happens, says the representative Børge Burnde from the Right, nothing happens, where is the gas pipe? Does Børge Burnde think that we should start rolling it out the day after the election last harvest? Nothing's happening! After all, we have one investigation after another in order to have the best possible basis for decision-making, and we have the political basis for decision-making. [[Laughter]] I must almost go down and sit down! I ask, what world is Børge Brende operating in?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07-2.ana.ud1908e581	The right did not go into the last election campaign and promised Norwegian industry, as today's Prime Minister did, lower power prices to the industry. The right did not indicate before the 2005 elections that there is a large legal space that can be fully exploited to establish a new industrial power regime. The right did not show in its comments before the elections last year that ‘although a scheme might contain illegal aid elements, there is a possibility’. Now I quote from the notes to today's three government parties. In fact, the right, as requested by the representative Nordtun, responded exactly in the same way as today’s oil and energy ministers, in today’s debate, where the Council of State, Mr Enoxen, asserts that there is ‘no reason to hide that there is a demanding work’. I think I quote the State Council of Enoxen correctly: ‘The EEA Agreement sets limits.’ What the representative Burnde did was, I suppose, to ask: where is the matter? It's a rather important question, because we got a government shift quite simply for the good reason that the 40-50 communities in the country that are based on one-sided industrial operations and on the operations around the process industry, saying that this was so easy to put in place that a new government would immediately grasp this. Blank guarantees were issued – a red-green government was put in place, and we will fix this in the afternoon. Then it must be allowed to ask questions, when we are in government year 2, where does the matter become that it would take some afternoon hours to get in place? In addition, the representative Ola Borten Moe showed that, in the previous period, in particular when Børge Brende was Minister for the Environment, there was a rather aggressive and conflicty approach to the concept of nature protection, national parks, etc., with reference to Trillemarka. It seemed very interesting to me to register as a playoff from Borten Moe. What the previous government put in place was a protection proposal, which was adopted on the initiative of Børge Brende, which now consists of 43 km2. You are now fighting to go up to, as landowners and municipalities suggest, 100 km2, and we know that the directorate is now proposing 147 km2. Can we interpret the representative Borten Moe so that there will be no conflict if you go back to 43 km2, or should you go up to 147 km2 without any conflict?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07-2.ana.ud1908e605	I think it's a little strange when I listen to the representative from the Christian People's Party, Holten Hämdal, and the representative from the Right, Kristiansen, and when I read in the various local media and in the nations how Gunnar Gunnersen stands and grumbles about the fantastic protection policy and predatory policy that the two current parties stand for. Then it's a little bit important to look at the story. Who was the father of predatory politics? It was Børge Brende. Who was it that pulled the case through in Stortinget? Well, it was the Christian People's Party with the case rapporteur who went through the matter in the Storting, without respect for local democracy, without respect for the local processes. And who was the one who hit his chest the last time that he was so powerful in terms of protection? Well, it was Børge Brende, who took advantage of someone driving a protective case after a protective case. And the Christian People's Party backed up on that. Who deprived owners of rights without providing tax relief for good compensation? Yes, it was the previous government. And this government is correcting it, by not taxing voluntary protection. We provide voluntary protection, we facilitate good processes between landowners and states, and we reverse the tax austerity that the previous government did to create better and more locally anchored processes that don't create so much local resistance. At least I think in the name of honesty it's strange that a representative from the previous government parties beat their chests to create good protection processes locally, when they made it economically less favourable to be on the team, while this government has made it more beneficial to be on the team in relation to protection processes and get good, local protection processes without having to resort to bad solutions down on people's heads.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07-2.ana.ud1908e614	At the end of this budget debate, let me thank the Committee for a good cooperation, especially with regard to the position on the budget of the Ministry of the Interior. The Ministry of the Environment's budget has not received much attention in this Chamber today. I think it's because it's really quite eye-catching in the sense that we have a lot of things that a collective committee is behind. I just want to mention some of them. There is an overall committee that underlines the value of voluntary environmental work. It is also – believe it or not – an overall committee that writes that climate change is probably the biggest challenge facing the world. There is also an overall committee that agrees with the ambitious goal of ending species eradication by 2010. Furthermore, there is an overall committee that underlines the importance of the work done by the Art Database, which we have been shown in the last two days through the presentation of the Red List. There is also an overall committee that is pleased with the work being done by the Directorate for Nature Management to follow up this work on the endangered species. We have put in place concrete action plans relating to individual species, for example, which we have already put in place, action plan to take care of estuary, damfrog, red forest and mountain reefs. We continue to work with, among others. Dwarf goose and large salamander. There is also an overall committee that calls for a power cap for more care and better management of our protection areas. It's an important job, and it's important to do it much better than you've done in previous years. It's also an overall committee that's concerned that we're going to take care of our world heritage areas better than we've been able to do at this point. An overall committee further writes that the need to increase efforts to combat Gyrodactylus salaris — this salmon-infecting parasite — is important. It is an important environmental battle, but it can be won, even if the needs are great. An overall committee is also concerned about saving the mountain reefs and wants an increased effort for it. An overall committee also agrees on liming, and there is an overall committee that is behind the effort we are making to help save wild rain and manage this amazing species of animal we have in Norwegian nature, in a good way. There is also a broad consensus on much of what goes on in waste, and there is a broad consensus that it is important that we get clean-up measures for contaminated land. I haven't brought everything yet. There are several areas, but I'm not reaching anymore. Let me just say that the position that this committee has taken in the field of the environment is a good tool for the Minister for the Environment in the work she is going to continue with us in order to return to Norway as an environmental policy country.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07-2.ana.ud1908e633	I registered with great concern that the State Council, Odd Roger Enoksen, did not come up with a single word about this with gas pipes for Grenland. It was only on questions from Torbjørn Andersen that the theme was mentioned. Then the council said there was no reason to doubt the gas pipe. I have to say that we actually didn't sow doubt, but point out the actual conditions. And the fact is, the Workers' Party in the opposition has promised NOK 3 billion to the gas pipe. 100 000 people in Grenland don't forget that. And the government has so far not delivered anything concrete. The facts are also that the Workers' Party has promised that the gas pipeline will come, but the Council of State has not yet stood up and guaranteed it. He didn't say yes, the gas pipe is coming. So far the answer is plans and processes. When the representative of Terje Aasland is standing here on the platform and comes up with a lot of diplomatic ideas in relation to the fact that we all believe the same thing, I am becoming a top-notch listener, because it is quite different from the Terje Aasland who in the election campaign seemed to be in a rather different way. He actually did that in his first post here today, when he characterized one of his co-workers. I'm not going to repeat the characteristics, just tell the representative Aasland that one should be careful to throw stones when sitting in glasshouses. Then I remember again all the promises from the Workers' Party in opposition, about NOK 3 billion on the table – an election campaign where it was said that the gas pipeline would come, only we would get a new government. The height of the drop is high and the expectations are high. Now the government has to deliver that gas pipe to Grenland, because so far the Workers' Party and the Government actually have a credibility problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07-2.ana.ud1908e646	I expect the evening and the end of this year's cape struggle in «environmental resistance». But anyway – it is tempting to sign up here. The first one I'm going to draw attention to is the representative Ola Borten Moe. I registered that in February he had a good suggestion of increased wreckage on older vehicles to get them out of the system, because they were environmentally polluting. The next thing that happened then, of course, was that this seemed the Workers' Party and SV was a good suggestion, and they supported it. So it was in February. There is no such proposal today. Policy may have changed. Several months have passed from February to now, and, as I said, policies are changing rapidly and efficiently. It is also a fact that what the representative Borten Moe was for in February promoted the Progress Party in the financial position, without any special support from the Centre Party and those who were positive about it in February. Another thing that is being discussed is the conversion of car charges. It is quite a pleasure to note that we are now bringing up the diesel car in Norway. They're doing the trick now, and they should be everybody's. We're raising one diesel car after another, while we're seeing that maybe the part of the world that's most concerned with the environment, California, prohibits the cars that we run up and say we have to have a lot of them here. Of course, it may be that in our wisdom we have understood things they have not understood on the other side of the ocean, but it is also true that California, in particular, has been a global forum for taking environmental and environmental responsibility seriously. So what's illegal there is the best thing in our class. There might be a logic here, but it's not that good to see. So to another important topic: industrial power regime. I registered that the council said a few words about it. I also record that the old government parties defend their – what to say – well-being from the previous period in this way, but there is no doubt that they have been under strong pressure from the then opposition in relation to addressing this. I guess that's also how the power of action is a key. Then I expect the Danish State Council to have this high on the block, to take it up and to be active towards the EU in finding a regime that we can live with and that can take care of the powerful industry in the country as well. It is then a little worrying to note, as one of the major newspapers showed, that there are three major meetings in the EU where our oil and energy minister has not found it timely to be present. But there's probably a good reason for that, too, in line with the lack of support for wreckage.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07-2.ana.ud1908e658	The representative Andersen has spoken twice before and gets the word to a short comment, limited to one minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07-2.ana.ud1908e661	The representative of Terje Aasland, the Workers' Party, gave me a visit on my post where I came into the Energy Act and the changes and evaluations that the Government has told it to come into that area. Let it be clear that as we see it in the Progress Party, the Energy Act was right. It has had many good effects. Today, the Nordic electricity market is the only international, functioning electricity market in the world. This shows that the intentions of the Energy Act are good. And, as I tried to say, the law has worked on the offer page. When the law has had the negative side effect that it's not built out enough capacity, it's not primarily the cause of the Energy Act. The blame must be on politicians from among others. The Labour Party, from which Terje Aasland comes, take for themselves, because they have, as I have pointed out, repeatedly entered and voted down or halved a good force project. In the last year, 4 TWh has been voted down by these parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07-2.ana.ud1908e668	This time I will start with Kari Lise Holmberg's question, so we are absolutely sure that it will be answered. As an experienced government party, the Right is of course fully aware that such large and complex projects as this must be through a significant process before the Government takes its position on them. Gassco is at the end of the work they are doing with the commercial operators who are going to use this pipe, and will present the result of that work before Christmas. Immediately afterwards, the government will take this matter under consideration. In the Soria Moria Declaration, we have established – and it is a broad majority behind – that this pipe should also be realized with state participation. As soon as the outcome of Gassco's work on the relevant actors is available, we will finalise this matter in the Government. This is a project that will take considerable time during the implementation phase. We're going to try to make it as short as possible, but it's also a big project implementing when we think about the investments to be made. To Ivar Kristiansen I would say: let it be clear that there is a room for action for industrial power. We have put in a considerable effort to clarify that space of action. The government's ambition is to establish such an industrial power regime. However, both the industry and the actors working there feel that it would certainly be appropriate for us to put this as closely up to the work that the EU is now doing. So that's one of the reasons why we're different from what's going on in the European Union, not that we've iced this up in some way. Let me conclude by saying that there have been periods of high temperature in this debate, and we like to focus a little bit on both sides. We are talking about demanding things like power balance, renewable energy investment, the situation in central Norway, development and infrastructure for gas – which I have now been faced with – and not least the climate challenge of CO2 management. These are major challenges. I have been asked earlier today whether there was a willingness in the government parties to cooperate on these issues. Yes, it is, although it may have not exactly worked that way in my previous posts. But let's be clear: we're set to listen to good recordings that come, also from the opposition, and my door is open, also for the opposition, in relation to accepting recordings and ideas that have to come, also in this room, of course. It was just supposed to be missing. Fire has used the term Enoxen’s breakup several times. Yes, I will admit that I have taken one lesson. I have had big, complex issues for treatment in my department, many of them at the same time, and it has been difficult to have a clear view of how long it would take to get into the goal of some of these demanding issues. It's a lesson that I'm going to take from the work that's been done. But that definitely doesn't mean we're talking about a breach of promises. It means that things have taken longer than I expected.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07-2.ana.ud1908e682	The representative Børge Burnde has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07-2.ana.ud1908e685	I think the representative Tore Nordtun had a good summary of the debate on behalf of the red-greens: 'We're in the process. [[...]] We have one investigation after another in progress." Now the industrial power regime was investigated. Now gas pipes to Grenland were investigated. Now we're looking at how to get a gas power plant in Forest in place. An action programme against the power crisis in Central Norway was now also investigated. When I raised the question of the state of the industrial power regime, it was to get an update of where it says that. When we were in government, we were told clearly that it was just starting. There was no sense in figuring this out. Now it turns out that this is more complex, and I fully understand that, because we've been saying that all along.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07-2.ana.ud1908e692	I realized that the Council of State said in its last speech that gas pipes to Grenland should be realized. It's about time. I think it took a long time for the Council of State to be clear, but at least I realized that the Council of State now gave a clear message that gas pipes are coming to Grenland. Nevertheless, I find it interesting to note that there is a great difference between being in opposition and being in position for the Workers' Party in terms of gas pipes to Grenland. In this connection, I have to return to Sylvia Brustad, who, on behalf of the Workers' Party in 2003, made a proposal to grant NOK 3 billion. more for gas pipelines and infrastructure to Grenland. When the representative Terje Aasland from this pulpit says that there is no great difference between the comments of the Workers' Party and the opposition in the Stortinget, he is partly right in it. However, it should be said that in the context of the financial debate, a similar proposal was put forward by the representative of Brustad on behalf of the Workers' Party in 2003 but which the Workers' Party has now chosen to vote down. There's a big difference between what the representatives are saying in the pulpit here and what they're doing in their homelands and promising the voters. The representatives promised that the Union would not be shut down if there was a red-green government after the 2005 elections. The same batches in Telemark have also promised that gas pipelines will be realised by 2009. Now there are investigations of the consequences and whether you might want to think about establishing something from 2009, so it seems like it's far from what you say in the home state to what you do in this room. We think that's very sad. In the end, I also want to quote from a prominent business manager, Eivind Reiten. He says that it is always nice to have happiness on the road, but these only get important when the money comes. That's also the case with gas pipes to Grenland.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07-2.ana.ud1908e708	The representative Ola Borten Moe has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07-2.ana.ud1908e711	Gunnar Kvassheim has used this debate to argue over the Government's renewable energy effort. He has stopped using mobile gas power plants in Trøndelag. On the direct challenge of what is left's option in Trøndelag if there is an energy shortage, Gunnar Kvassheim answers that you should have bio-fired mobile power plants. That's exactly what Statnet ordered. You spend almost $2 billion. in biofired power plants, and Gunnar Kvassheim uses a lot of this debate to overwhelm it. I find reason to ask Gunnar Kvassheim to explain the Left's point of view here. I would like to ask, is that how you support this decision, or are you not doing it? If you put this back-up power in place, and it turns out you can't get hold of bioenergy, what does the Left think you should do? Are you going to go on a chord with the Left promised in ours, that you have to have the same security of energy supply in Middle Norway as in the rest of the country, or do you accept to run this power generation?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07-2.ana.ud1908e718	The representative of Terje Aasland has also spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07-2.ana.ud1908e721	I just want to clarify an obvious misunderstanding with regard to the proposals for appropriations made by the Workers' Party in the past. With regard to the DKK 3 billion that was referred to should have been proposed for gas pipes to Grenland of Sylvia Brustad, it was before the agreement with the previous government. It reconciled one, strangling another course, another process, other than government budget appropriations. And that's what we're dealing with now, and that's about to end. That's the reality of it. I believe that I have been clear and underlined what is in the majority's position, clear comment and recommendation on the further process, and the Council of State has done so to those degrees today. Now the Progress Party itself has understood that one wants to be clear on that. With regard to Hoksrud's statements on the election break, I can assure you that we have already fulfilled eight out of ten specific cases for Telemark. And that must be a good starting point.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07-2.ana.ud1908e733	Ketil Solvik-Olsen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07-2.ana.ud1908e736	It was Nordtun's representative who engaged me a little. When he talks about the government conducting an investigation, and takes it as a proof of action, I am a little specified. Sylvia Brustad, who was an energy policy spokeswoman for the Workers' Party in the previous period, criticized the Stortingen to ask for an investigation and could not cut through. That's why I ask, where are the principal clarifications from the Government that show that it's actually dealing with politics and not just with administration? That's what we're now seeing examples of. We have not been given any clarification on the industrial power regime, we have not been given any clarification on the progress of energy laws, two-price systems, the involvement of the Celestial Goods and money to Mongstad. There has been no clarification of the state responsibility in relation to Grenland, we have not been given any explanation of the costs of building Mongstad, nothing on the mapping of the north areas, nothing on petroleum research, framework conditions for gas power plants and nothing on the study of thorium – all of this we demanded in the introduction. On the other hand, we have been told that the government has not planned to send any action plan for Middle Norway to Stortinget. You can ignore answering these problems, but they don't disappear for that reason.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07-2.ana.ud1908e743	Gunnar Kvassheim is the next speaker. It is probably too much to be told about the environment policy to the left in 1 minute, but it is speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07-2.ana.ud1908e746	Our policy is very clear and clear, so if anyone was going to make it, it was us. I can invite Borten Moe to a round of clarifications at my office over the weekend, if he is sincerely interested in getting answers to his question. We did not argue about the government’s policy – we described it. We described the policy as well as the experience of central centre party people in Trøndelag – as insufficient to release renewable energy. With regard to the attitude towards mobile gas power plants, we are of the same opinion as the Environment Minister was when she made her statement at MaiJazz this summer, and also in this case we intend to stand on that line when we are being tested in practice. But we've said that we can be open to using biofuels as part of a strategy to solve the problems within the region. Our main concern is that as the Government is now moving forward in energy policy, by weakening the renewable solutions, we will have to use the gas power plants to a very different extent than would have been the result of the Left's policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07-2.ana.ud1908e755	Kari Lise Holmberg has had the word twice before and gets the word to a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07-2.ana.ud1908e758	Now it seems that Terje Aasland is only a pale shadow of itself. Suddenly, an investigation on gas pipes is completely fine. What Telemark had expected was that Aasland would be on the line for the gas pipeline, not for an elusive oil and energy minister. When the three billion are mentioned, it must be perfectly legitimate for a magnificent to remember that this is what the Labour Party has stood here on the Parliament's pulpit and promised the voters. There is every reason to recall that political promises should be kept – not avoided when dealing with realities.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07-2.ana.ud1908e763	The President would point out that it is not so positive to describe his fellow colleagues. Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 6 and 7. [[See pages 1120 and 1138]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07-2.ana.ud1908e773	Then Stortinget would be ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07-2.ana.ud1908e781	Ten proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 – 5, by Jan Arild Ellingsen on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right-wing Proposals No. 6 and 7, by Jan Arild Ellingsen, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities. 8, by Elisabeth Aspaker, on behalf Proposals Nos. 1 – 8 is included in the setting, while the proposals from the Left are distributed in the hall. First of all, there is the vote on the motions for resolutions. Nine and ten from the left.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07-2.ana.ud1908e823	President! The Progress Party, the Right Party and the Christian People’s Party have earlier today indicated that they should support the proposal. Has there been a change?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07-2.ana.ud1908e830	Is that the case? – Then we actually take the vote again. The proposals from the Left would then receive broad support.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07-2.ana.ud1908e844	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 8 from the right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to open up for several private actors to analyse DNA, in a situation where the analytical capacity is detonated and cannot be estimated to be reduced without assistance in a transitional phase.’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07-2.ana.ud1908e859	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 7 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to come back with an investigation in relation to the need for and alternative location of a modern and forward-looking training centre for police-operative disciplines.’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07-2.ana.ud1908e874	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 6 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking for the introduction of a system of central financing of forensic services and DNA analyses.’ The right, Christian People's Party and the left have announced that they want to support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07-2.ana.ud1908e891	The proposals are then put to the vote. 1–5, from the Advance Party and the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07-2.ana.ud1908e2750	The Progress Party has announced its intention to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07-2.ana.ud1908e2767	A vote shall be taken on the proposal by Mr Solvency Horne, on behalf of the Party for Progress and the Right, submitted by the meeting of Mr Odelstinget on 23 November 2006: ‘The Government asks the Government to set up a Commission on Company and Commercial Law in accordance with the model of the Banking Law Commission.’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07-2.ana.ud1908e2773	President! Earlier in the course of the debate, it has been noted that the Left wishes to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07-2.ana.ud1908e2780	The left wants to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07-2.ana.ud1908e2796	The vote will take place on behalf of the Progress Party on the proposal of Mr Solvency Horne from the meeting of Mr Odelstinget on 23 November 2006. [[(see section 4.4). Deep. O. No 12):]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07-2.ana.ud1908e2815	The vote will take place on behalf of the Right from the meeting of 23 November 2006 of Mr André Oktay Dahl, representative of the Parliament of Great Britain. [[(see section 4.4). Deep. O. No 12):]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07-2.ana.ud1908e2834	The vote will take place on behalf of the Right from the meeting of 23 November 2006 of Mr André Oktay Dahl, representative of the Parliament of Great Britain. [[(see section 4.4). Deep. O. No 12):]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07-2.ana.ud1908e2853	During the debate, 26 proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1 and 24, from Line Henriette Holten Hemdal on behalf of the Christian People's Party proposals No. 2, 21 and 26, by Børge Brende on behalf of the Right-wing Proposal No. 3-9, by Ketil Solvik-Olsen on behalf of the Progressive Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left proposal No. 10–13, from Ketil Solvik-Olsen on behalf of the Party of Advancement and the Right-wing Proposals No. 14 and 15, from Børge Burnde on behalf of the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left Proposals No. 16-20, by Mr Solvik-Olsen on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 22 and 23, from Line Henriette Holten Hemdal on behalf of the Christian People's Party and Left Amendment No. 25, from Gunnar Kvassheim on behalf of the Left Proposals Nos. 1–25 is included in the vote, while proposal No. 26 is distributed in the hall. First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. Twenty-five, from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests the establishment of a feed-in scheme for support for the production of new renewable electricity based on the principles of the Green Certificate Scheme, at the latest in the context of the 2007 Revised National Budget.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07-2.ana.ud1908e2897	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 24, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The budget asks the Government of the Revised National Budget 2007 to consider the establishment of a green fund for sustainable development.’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07-2.ana.ud1908e2912	The proposals are then put to the vote. 22 and 23, from the Christian People's Party and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07-2.ana.ud1908e2936	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 21, from the right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to set aside 4 million. crowns for the refurbishment of Røro's church within the amount allocated on the cap. 1429 entry 72 Protection and preservation of peace and security of cultural and cultural monuments.’» The Progress Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07-2.ana.ud1908e2953	The proposals are then put to the vote. 16–20, from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07-2.ana.ud1908e2998	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 14 and 15, from the right, the Christian party, and the left.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07-2.ana.ud1908e3022	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 10–13, from the Party of Advancement and the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07-2.ana.ud1908e3058	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 3-9 from the Party of Advancement, Right, Christian People's Party and Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07-2.ana.ud1908e3112	There is a vote on proposal No. 26, from the right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to provide the Stortinget with an explanation of the main features of the Action Plan to prevent the power crisis in Central Norway, which was promised early in the autumn.’ The Progress Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07-2.ana.ud1908e3129	We are then going to vote on proposal No. 1, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07-2.ana.ud1908e4515	There will then be a vote on proposal No. 2, from the right. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07-2.ana.ud1908e8018	President! I think I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07-2.ana.ud1908e8025	President! I'm not sure what to vote for.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07-2.ana.ud1908e8032	Then we take the vote again.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07-2.ana.ud1908e10077	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Ketil Solvik-Olsen on behalf of the Progress Party, Right and Christian People's Party proposal No. 2 by Mr Solvik-Olsen, on behalf of the Group of the European Progressive Democrats and the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, and in particular Mr Solvik-Olsen, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, and of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests the presentation by the Government of the announced legislative proposal on the NOU of the Biodiversity Committee on the Conservation of Natural Diversity to make the necessary changes to strengthen the participation of local democracy in the management of predators.’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07-2.ana.ud1908e10104	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 2 from the Progress Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to file a case for the amendment of Section 11 of the Viltslagen, Emergency Army Paragraph, in time for the law to come into force before or coincide with 1 May 2007.’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07-2.ana.ud1908e10119	There will be so much talk about proposal No. 1, from the Party of Advancement, from the Right Party, and from the Christian Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to make appropriate proposals for action if the stock of wolves with Sweden exceeds the stock or if the burden is more concentrated than at the time of the settlement of predators in the Storting.’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-07-2.ana.ud1908e10154	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word under Section 37(a) of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
