ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-26.ana.ud1963e24	The representative Anders Anundsen will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-26.ana.ud1963e27	It's a pleasure to make suggestions from Bård Hoksrud, Per Ove Width, Kåre Fostervold, Per Sandberg, Arne Sortevik and myself on the full standard four-field E18 from Larvik to Telemark's border.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-26.ana.ud1963e32	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-26.ana.ud1963e56	On Monday, the Stortinget received a message from the Prime Minister's office that Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg will meet for oral Question Time. The Prime Minister is present and we can start the oral questioning procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, would like to ask questions of substance. – We then start with the first main question, from the representative Dagfinn Høybräten.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-26.ana.ud1963e65	The Minister of Foreign Affairs issued a statement on Norway’s line in support of the Palestinian territories and the new Hamas government. Gahr Støre's statement was fully in line with what the Government had previously informed the Storting, and it was fully in line with the fundamental demands of the international community, the United Nations, the EU, the United States, Russia and important Arab countries: the Hamas Government must refrain from violence, they must recognise Israel's right to exist, and they must accept agreements concluded. Assistance is important to ensure development in the Palestinian territories, and Norway must continue to provide assistance through other channels to those who need it. But we cannot channel aid through a government that does not take a clear distance from violence and terror, and that aims to eradicate the State of Israel. But then we're witnessing something peculiar. There will be a dispute in SV about the foreign minister's statement, and another government council in his department will provide a clarification on the ministry's own website in ten footnotes to the Foreign Minister's statement to explain what Gahr Støre really meant. The Prime Minister's attempt to clean up only leads to increased confusion. A signature campaign against the Minister of Foreign Affairs is under way, with a number of central representatives of the government parties signing. The Prime Minister is moving out again, without it helping. The Minister of Foreign Affairs is summoned to the carpet, above the NRK, by one of the Workers' Party's depositors. The whole thing culminates in the fact that the two Councils are going out with a joint press release on what they really meant and meant. It's probably not over yet, we're going to believe today's newscasts. There are group meetings today. The government-friendly newspaper summarized it as follows yesterday: ‘During the last weeks, chaos and political conflict have prevailed between the government parties around Norway’s support for the Palestinians.’ Unfortunately, this is a striking description, but it is bad. Worse still, it is in the field of foreign policy, where it is important that we appear with a clear line. The worst thing is that it's not the first time SV puts the government in embarrassment in this area. We remember Afghanistan. We remember the boycott of Israel, and now it's happened again. My question to the Prime Minister is: How will the Prime Minister exercise his leadership in the future to fulfill the election promise that games, speculation, rematches and all that hesitation will end, as he said in a NRK debate on 16 August last year? How will he implement this in the field of foreign policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-26.ana.ud1963e83	I thank you for the question. I understand that the representative Dagfinn Højbräten is trying to make a political game out of something that is actually very clear and clear. It is set out in ten points, and it is a balanced approach to the whole Middle East conflict, which we believe is absolutely necessary. Firstly, we are still working for a peaceful solution in the Middle East. We're trailers of a two-state solution, i.e. that we should have a viable Palestinian State, and we should have an Israeli State within internationally recognised borders. Then we shall continue to support the Palestinian people. We're going to do it at least the same level as we did in previous years. We're going to do it through the UN and through non-governmental organisations. I have invited the President of the Palestinians, President Abbas, to Norway and meet him later today, just to discuss other ways of channelling aid, including. to the health service, through the authorities and bodies under the control of the President. In the case of direct budgetary support, which forms a minor part, at the lower edge of 20 pst. of the total Norwegian assistance to the Palestinian people, we have said that we will await new payments. There was a March payout of $10 million. dollar, almost $70 million. kr. We will await the question of new payments until we see what kind of policy the new Hamas government is actually implementing. We support the demands of the entire international community, that Hamas should refrain from violence, recognise the State of Israel and respect international agreements, just as we demand Israel to respect UN resolutions and to withdraw from the occupied country.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-26.ana.ud1963e92	These are clear clarifications from the Prime Minister regarding the content of the case. But I have to say it's one to naughty boundless boldness the prime minister now shows by claiming that it's the opposition that has started this game around this case. Was it the opposition that issued ten footnotes to the Foreign Minister's statement on the Foreign Ministry's websites? No, it was the State Council of Solheim in the Prime Minister's own government. Was it the opposition that launched a signature campaign that was endorsed by leading representatives of all government parties? No, it was the government coalition's own people. Was it the opposition that found it necessary to call in to the Storting? No, it wasn't, for the government had been in the Storting and explained its views and gained agreement in the Storing. So this has with respect to notify the red-green alliance ready to take care of itself. What is serious is that the Prime Minister does not recognize it. And it's even more serious that it's not the first time it happens. I repeat the question: what will the Prime Minister do to ensure that there is predictability and clarity in the field of foreign policy and that leadership is exercised?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-26.ana.ud1963e105	To continue to lead a government with clear positions, for example: in the Middle East conflict. The points put forward by the Minister for Development are not contrary to what the Minister for Foreign Affairs has put forward. These are common points. They complement each other, and that's exactly the same political message. So the fact that different governments are formulating the government's policy, as long as it's the same policy that's formulated, I can't see that's a problem at all. When it comes to meeting in Stortinget, it's quite right that the government has explained these things in Stortinget. That is, of course, in line with what we have explained in the Storting, what the Government says, what I say, and what the Foreign Minister says. But of course, we are prepared at any time to elaborate, justify and argue for those positions. That's why it's not about getting into the carpet, but it's about an ordinary political process that we're constantly explaining our positions and opinions, and I think that's part of a political process. So it's not a problem that you have a review of, for example, Middle East policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-26.ana.ud1963e112	There will be follow-up questions – first Morten Højlund.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-26.ana.ud1963e115	The Prime Minister says the government has been clear and clear. Representatives of the government parties in this Chamber have clearly not perceived that clarity and clarity. We've seen that from the opposition. We had an early perception of what the Government meant, and we have basically agreed with the Government. But then there's an attempt at a rematch after a rematch. The representative Højbråtten has referred to part of this. Is the Prime Minister comfortable with the situation as it has evolved? Is he comfortable with the fact that Norwegian foreign policy is the subject of a discussion in this way? The Labour Party has much of the credit for a broad consensus – at least in relation to the outside world – on important parts of Norwegian foreign policy. Is this about to slide?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-26.ana.ud1963e122	The answer to that question is no. Fortunately, it is a broad consensus, and it is also clearly anchored. It is anchored in the Stortingen on several occasions in what this government believes about the Middle East policy, and we have received broad support from the Stortingen for it, at the latest in the context of the foreign policy statement and in other consultations with the Stortingen. There the representative, Mr Höglund, is absolutely right, there is agreement and agreement on the policy that the Government has taken in the Grand Duchy. Paragraph 2: That policy is described and argued for and presented in ten points, a joint press release from the Minister for Development and Foreign Affairs, and that is in line with what we have explained in the Stortinget. Paragraph 3: Fortunately, we in Norway have a debate on foreign policy. I believe that there is indeed a strength in Norwegian foreign policy that it is also subject to discussion. I think we just have to see it as something positive that there are discussions, different assessments, different views both in the general public and in different parties, including the government parties. But as long as the government has a clear position and clear positions that are anchored in the Stortinget, there is no doubt about what is the views of the Government and Norway, and we shall say that, among other things. in meeting with President Abbas today.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-26.ana.ud1963e132	Erna Solberg – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-26.ana.ud1963e137	I'm really glad that our country has gained considerable peace-making skills. At the moment, it seems to be needed domestically, and that it is needed in the Government. I want to say that there are many who have spoken out clearly in the discussion that has taken place between the three government parties. Some of those who have expressed themselves most clearly and clearly have presented some of the most historyless, some of the most disrespectful of the victims of Nazism, whom I have seen under pressure for a long time. I refer to a part of the prime minister's political basis in this Chamber, that is, the SV's representative, Hallgeir Langeland, and his statements that Israel's policy is about the same thing that Nazism was doing, that is to get into the habitat. Is the Prime Minister proud to lead a government where part of the foundation has the kind of attitudes that are bordering on antisemitism, or is going to do something about it, for example. to the head of the Swedish Government?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-26.ana.ud1963e146	I am proud to lead a government that pursues an active peace policy in the Middle East, and has a clear policy of recognising the State of Israel, but at the same time we are demanding the State of Israel to withdraw from occupied territories, stop illegal settlements and respect the central UN resolutions. I am proud to lead a government that is committed to supporting the Palestinian people, but at the same time demands the Hamas authorities to refrain from violence, recognise the State of Israel and respect international agreements. So it's nothing new that there are members of the government parties who have a different view, but that doesn't change the government's view. The government's vision is clear. And I disagree with those in the government parties who disagree with the government – and it's the government's view that counts.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-26.ana.ud1963e151	Jon Lilletun – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-26.ana.ud1963e154	It is in the Norwegian debate, among others. from the opposition within the government party and from some other environment, talk a lot about the fact that stopping in support will cause major social problems in the Palestinian territories. None of us want there to be greater social problems in the Palestinian territories, and we are quite a few with the Government in that it is necessary to avoid it, and that we have to find other channels to help individuals. No one can go in so that the individual can come out worse. It's said that the international community and the Norwegian government are in favour of it, but there's someone who's making a lot more of a contribution to it, and it's Hamas itself. It must be a responsibility for Hamas that they will not change a policy that has the consequence that large parts of their people will suffer. Therefore, I think it is necessary to state clearly in the public debate – I hope the Prime Minister can be involved – that Hamas has a significant responsibility for the suffering that may result from their lack of recognition and willingness to comply with the international requirements, which are general international law.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-26.ana.ud1963e159	I fully agree with Mr Lilletun that Hamas has a great responsibility. That is why we are also making demands on them. It's completely contrary to what we stand for, that you can't distance yourself from suicide operations, acts of terror, but it's called self-defense. And it is absolutely necessary to continue the Oslo process by recognising the need for two states in the region, a Palestinian state and an Israeli state. That is why we must also demand Hamas to recognise the Israeli state. Clearly, the type of attitudes that Hamas has expressed, including: after the suicide operation in Tel Aviv, financial support is difficult to obtain. Not only from Norway, but from all over the international community — the EU and the rest of the international community — it will be difficult to obtain that kind of support when Hamas has that attitude. But my main message today is that we should manage to maintain at least the same support as before, through other channels, and that is already given a significant amount to the Palestinian self-government authorities before Hamas took over. So Norway should not give less support, Norway should provide at least as much, perhaps more, support than before.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-26.ana.ud1963e166	Lars Sponheim – to the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-26.ana.ud1963e169	I think this spontaneous question hour so far has given some clarification. The Prime Minister has stated that he disagrees with those who disagree with him, both in the Government and in the government parties. Although, of course, a government should have only one position, especially in foreign policy, I still think it's okay and clarifying that the Prime Minister says so, because he really has a much smaller problem than what he says. He has a wise foreign minister, who has expressed his foreign policy, and he has given support to him. The fact that there is some backyard noise in his own government from SV in foreign policy, I don't think really surprise the Prime Minister. In this way I think the Prime Minister is doing something reasonable by saying that that is the case, but we can live with it as long as the policy is firm and it has anchored in the Stortinget. I am concerned about this difficult situation that we find the wise combination of being firm in relation to the new Hamas government and being inviting to find good solutions. We must not get there that we push the Hamas government and the Palestinians into the hands of parts of the world that do not stand for the same international legal order as what we do. Will the Prime Minister take care of, inter alia: in today's meeting with the Palestinian President, to convey firmness in relation to the Hamas administration and to invite to the good solutions?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-26.ana.ud1963e176	I have to agree with all that the questioner has now said and expressed. Norway’s policy is firm, and it has a broad and solid anchor in the Stortinget. At the same time, I agree that it is important to find the right combination of firmness, both towards Hamas and towards Israel, and the basis for dialogue and the basis for continuing to provide financial assistance to the Palestinian people. There are methods for this, for how Norway should be involved in that cooperation, for how we should provide assistance in the best possible way. These are the instruments and techniques we are going to discuss today with President Abbas, precisely to ensure that Norway continues to play a role both in the peace process and in helping the Palestinian people.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-26.ana.ud1963e183	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-26.ana.ud1963e186	Last week, the government had a half-hour party. They were going to present a list of all the government's plans to do in the last six months. Now it's probably part of us who observed it, who thought it was more flashing like a tomb than a party. I think on that occasion it might be interesting to ask the Prime Minister a little bit about some of the most important promises made by the Government, and as they spent a lot of time in the government budget to create an idea of would solve a lot of the challenges we have. An example is the so-called huge transfers to the municipalities. The Progress Party also suggested transferring the same amount, but we didn't take the chance, as the Government did, to almost create the impression that now all the empty pools would be filled, now there would be a lot of new teachers in school, there would be a lot of new nurses in the care of the elderly, and many municipalities would increase social assistance rates. There were no limits to what those billions would solve of problems around the municipality of Norway. Then we can read in Dagbladet today about price shock in SV-steered Nesodden, where the price of the school leisure system goes up from NOK 7 000 to NOK 30000. So this money can't have been spent on it. Then I think it might be interesting to hear the Prime Minister's assessment of the stand in Kommune-Norge now, after six months with the Stoltenberg government, after a government budget where the government was silent about how to solve the problems in the municipal economy through these transfers.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-26.ana.ud1963e196	This government has implemented more of its policies in a shorter time than very many other governments have done in half a year. We've come very far in fulfilling the election promises, and we've done what we said we should do, right away. For example, we said that we should abolish the tax relief and instead spend the big money on the big tasks, the care of the elderly, education and well-being, and we do. Extra 5.7 billion kroner for municipalities means that municipalities now have more money for school. This means that many planned cuts, e.g. here in the Municipality of Oslo, where the Progress Party is in charge, has been cancelled, and there have been additions, among others. for elderly care and schooling in many municipalities that otherwise could not afford it. There is no doubt that when the municipalities get more money, it becomes more of the municipality's business, and almost 80 pst. of local government expenditure is for school, health and care. We've put down the nursery rate, and we've done a lot to create a more human working life. We've done a lot to contribute to a fairer distribution, by those who have little, for example. those who were cut off from unemployment by means of the Progress Party and those who, through the Progress Party, had poorer disability benefits in the previous period through what was called temporary disability benefits, have now received better arrangements, increases in daily allowances, increases in disability benefits, as a result of the new government. And we've increased the housing stock. And then we've made sure that those with the highest incomes pay more taxes, while with the provisions of the Progress Party they would pay less taxes with the highest incomes, because they had been heavily cut in capital and wealth taxes. So we're going on: more community than tax havens. And we're building out. But we never promised that everything would be in place in the first six months. What we promised was that the course would be different. It's different, and it's exactly in the direction we said: the money for well-being, for school, for care, for kindergartens, instead of for those who have enough from before. Moreover, it is alarming that the Progress Party uses the SFO as an example, because the Progress Party is to abolish all public support for the SFO and all public support for kindergartens, so that the kindergarten price would be approximately NOK 10000 and all SFO schemes significantly more expensive than today.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-26.ana.ud1963e209	The speech that the Prime Minister has been training for a long time, I hear. But that's not what I asked. I asked how many more years had gone by in school, how many more nurses there had been in the care of the elderly, and how many more basins had now been filled with the 5.7 billion. That did not answer the Prime Minister, despite the fact that I asked for it. Then there was another important area in the 2006 state budget. It was the health service. The government unhindered its commitment to health, so that we could treat more patients. So we can read in the Evening Post today that we now have 227 Corridor Asians every day at the country's hospital, despite the requirement that no patients should lie in corridors, and that in a situation where most other countries it's natural for us to compare with, do not have corridors. How does the Prime Minister explain that Norway, one of the richest countries in the world, is unable to solve the most basic welfare tasks, despite a government budget with which the Prime Minister seems to be very pleased?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-26.ana.ud1963e216	The Progress Party has voted in favour of three state budgets and negotiated three state budgets, and in the last three years the Progress Party has been involved in financing large tax reliefs and in granting too little money for basic welfare tasks. So the progress party has a problem deciding what they actually choose. When we see that they have to choose, they choose tax relief rather than welfare in cooperation with the other bourgeois parties. As for how many are going to be employed in health care or in the care of the elderly or in schools, it is that a driver now employs people, so we do not know in April 2006 how many are going to be employed in Norwegian municipalities in 2006. We know that when the year is over. But what we know is that e.g. Tønsberg, where the Progress Party is in charge, or Oslo, where the Progress Party is in charge, had announced that fewer employees would be employed in important welfare tasks, had notified de-employment in the care of the elderly, for example. in Oslo. And when they got the money, they said, now we can drop it, now we can keep the employees. So there are at least considerably more employees in the care of the elderly with the Workers' Party's arrangements than with the arrangements proposed by the civil government.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-26.ana.ud1963e223	I record that the Prime Minister will not answer questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-26.ana.ud1963e228	The President will ask the representative to stick to the order of business, that there be follow-up questions after the last question by the representative, Siv Jensen, to say something diplomatic. And the first follow-up question comes from Harald T. Nesvik.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-26.ana.ud1963e231	I'm going to give the Prime Minister the opportunity to answer the very question related to what's going on with the Corridor Asian problem and with the lack of funding for the health service. What is obvious is that in health care at least there will be no more annual work. Here we are moving towards the liquidation of several types of hospital services, as well as seeing that the municipalities do not accept pre-treated patients in hospitals. This is the most expensive part of the healthcare system, i.e. patients in hospitals, versus getting them transferred to the hospital services and other things in the municipalities. This is largely due to the lack of health care facilities, and of course also to organisational problems. My question to the Prime Minister is: Will he now address the lack of interaction between the specialist health service and the municipal health service? For this, not only can one department, the Ministry of Health, be taken in cooperation with the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs. Will the Prime Minister take an initiative now, so that we can get an arrangement for the corridor patients, so that pre-treated patients are printed out to the municipality in which they belong?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-26.ana.ud1963e240	Yes, we will deal with the interaction that is necessary between hospitals and municipalities, between hospital services and hospital services. We've been sitting for six months, and we've done one very important thing: we've made sure that a lot of municipalities, including the progressive party-driven municipalities, have got more money, so they don't cut in the care of the elderly and in the nursing home development. Then it's easier to receive people from hospitals who should actually be in a hospital instead of in a hospital. So we have already taken a significant step in relation to the municipalities, which are responsible for nursing homes. The second thing we've done is we've been notified that we're making a big announcement about the care of the elderly. This is very, very much about the elderly who do not get the care and care they should have, who often have problems getting hospital treatment, as they should, and/or stay in hospital for too long because the hospital offer is too poor. It's a main theme of the big message we'll be submitting in a few weeks. So we're quick both to act in terms of money, and to put forward new plans.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-26.ana.ud1963e247	Jan Tore Sanner – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-26.ana.ud1963e250	Fortunately, much goes well in Norway, and so did last year, when the Right sat in government. In fact, there were 2,000 more annual shifts in the care of the elderly in 2005 with the Right in government. But there is no doubt that we still have challenges. There are needs within our welfare community. There is a need to invest more in road and infrastructure. There is a need to focus more on knowledge and innovation. But it will be equally wrong when the Progress Party will solve all the problems with even more oil money that when the Workers Party will always solve the challenges by increasing taxes. One of the most important things we can do is stimulate the growth of the economy, so that there is more money to distribute. We've actually made that clear, because last year's growth in the economy was 7 pst. That means that very many of the billions now distributed by Stoltenberg came because they stimulated the growth of the economy. And my question is, what will the Prime Minister and the Government do to bake the cake bigger, so that we actually get more to distribute?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-26.ana.ud1963e257	It is quite right that a lot is going well in Norway, and Norway has been doing well for many years, regardless of governments. I think that is a point, and I actually underlined it in the election campaign in TV debates too, that it is not black and white, that it is not a social-democratic paradise against a civil plight, but that is the choice it is about – it is about which direction, which direction, which values the policy should be based on. What we are now seeing is that the policy now being pursued is based on other values. The direction is different, although of course there are unresolved tasks. The main difference of value is that we're involved in the community, that we're engaged in the fissure layer that's called the welfare community, that we want to spend the money on it instead of tax havens, and there's an honest disagreement between us and the Right. We simply believe that good care and good schooling are more important than new billions at lower taxes. So it's like investing in the community, whether it's in education or it's in the way, that this government spends more money on than the Right, it contributes both to well-being and also to value-making. Norway, Sweden and Denmark are countries with relatively high levels of taxation, but also high levels of employment, high levels of value creation.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-26.ana.ud1963e264	Hans Olav Syversen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-26.ana.ud1963e268	In the debates I took part in the election campaign, there was a rarity to hear that it was not a haphazard with the efforts of the previous government. I'm glad the Prime Minister thinks it was pretty good anyway. It is perhaps the expectations of the new government with which Stoltenberg and his government have great problems. This would include, inter alia: the care of the elderly before giving a single penny in tax bills. Right after that, the government presented a tax bill that the Landsorganisation said was totally unsocial and unacceptable. In addition, cutting educational institutions to ensure that we have enough nurses and teachers, as this government says it is concerned about. Does the Prime Minister understand those who believe that the red-greens actually engaged in the election campaign in their eagerness to make a government change?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-26.ana.ud1963e275	When I was running a campaign, I became more and more aware that there was an absolute chance that we could win the election. That's why I became more and more concerned with taking some clear, I would say, reservation, in the sense that I was very clear in several debates – I remember especially once in Tabloid where I underlined all that we weren't going to be able to do in one year, two years and at least not in half a year, actually not over a whole growing-up period. So I didn't guarantee, and I actually underlined that there were going to be problems in many important areas of society also in 2009, even if we won. But what I promised was that we would get a different course, and that we would spend the money on other things than what the previous government did. So the most important thing was that we wanted to cancel the tax breaks and spend that money on school and care for the elderly. We've kept that promise. It's a completely different course, it's a completely different direction, and it's a lot of Christian People's Party rapporteurs who are very happy that the Workers' Party is in government with the Center Party and SV, instead of the Christian People's Party sitting there with the Right and continuing to spend money on lower taxes instead of giving more money to school and care for the elderly in the municipalities. [[President clubs]] So we kept the promise we gave, that is to change the course. It's changed, but we're not in the goal.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-26.ana.ud1963e282	The President would say that it's okay with reservations, only it doesn't go too far beyond speaking time. Lars Sponheim – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-26.ana.ud1963e287	But I can confirm that the Prime Minister took some reservations at the end of the election campaign within the speaking time. However, it was at a time when the campaign machine he led out into hooks and hooks, he still created expectations that he probably could not bring down with it. It was opportunistic for him to be able to point to it now, but it is enough that the government he is running and its parties, created expectations that they cannot now meet. I think that's the background for a little bit of the significant turbulence we now have in Norwegian policy, and electoral displacements and frustrations. It's an expectation crisis, and it's illustrated by the fact that politics is very rhetorical and maybe less different. Thus, with regard to the large difference – ‘Community’ or ‘taxilet’, which are the most widely used words of the Prime Minister, the level of taxation in 2004 and the level of taxation in 2005 are the differences in relation to the so-called tax burden. So in this room, the big community has to be created, and I think that's hard to get the broad understanding of. Does the Prime Minister see that he has contributed to creating expectations that reality now makes it difficult for him to meet?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-26.ana.ud1963e292	I am responsible for what I have said, and what I have said is exactly what I am now saying in this questionnaire – I have said it after the election and before the election – and that is that we make different choices, we make different priorities than the previous government. But we have never promised, and I will never promise, that all problems will be solved – I have too much experience in how complicated the contentious reality really is. But that doesn't mean that it's immaterial who controls. Because if two ships leave the same port, and the course is different, the distance may not be so great the first days and the first time, but when they sail over time all over the sea, the place they end up becomes very different. That's what this election was about, what direction social development is going to take. Now it has a different direction – justice, community – than the direction it had under the previous government. Over time, the differences become very large. For the unemployed, who have had more unemployment benefits, for those municipalities that have been able to hire more people in the care of the elderly, for those schools that have been able to cut off special education, the differences are significant.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-26.ana.ud1963e297	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-26.ana.ud1963e300	I think the previous answer to the Prime Minister was interesting. Justice and community are two important values. I want to begin by congratulating the Prime Minister. Congratulations on new car! It is always nice to get a new car – in difficult times it is often nice to shop too. It'll help things out a little bit. A modern Mini Cooper is a great car. I believe that there is no doubt that it is within the regulatory framework that applies, and I have no problem that the Prime Minister has done so initially. But it is quite important that it illustrates a point about the perception of justice, namely that it has become too expensive for people in Norway to obtain a Mini Cooper, or a Volvo SUV, that the Minister of Oil and Energy has obtained. Both Stoltenberg and many others in our society are able to solve it by saving money by having a company car. However, very many others pay the taxes and charges, such as: contribute to the financing of our wages and salaries, etc. – they come, among others. from the car charges paid. If Norwegian car charges had been lower, Norwegian cars would be cheaper, and more people could get safer, new and, in fact, more environmentally friendly cars. My question to the Prime Minister is: Based on the debate that has been over the past few weeks, on the understanding that there is a need, among other things. in District Norway, having safe, safe, quadruple-powered cars – as the Minister for Oil and Energy believes he needs – wouldn't it have been a point to lower car charges?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-26.ana.ud1963e309	What we have said about the car charges is that we want to convert the car charges in a more environmentally friendly direction. This means, among other things: that cars that use less fuel, more environmentally friendly cars, we are concerned about getting out more reasonably, and we are looking at ways to get to it now. Otherwise, Erna Solberg has been in government for four years. The right has had the Minister of Finance, and it's probably not that people feel that there are very reasonable cars that are the result of the four years. On the contrary, a very high level of car charges was retained, and nothing was done about the petrol charges during the period right in the government offices. We promise a more environmentally friendly arrangement of the car charges, but we will not promise a general reduction in the general level. It's simply because we think it's more appropriate to spend money in school, care for the elderly and the development of roads, where we spend more than the right, than to spend money on that kind of comprehensive tax relief. I noticed that the Right has not been a driver when they are in position, but as soon as the Right comes in opposition, the Right becomes a driver for e.g. lower petrol prices, something they didn't do with when they were in government.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-26.ana.ud1963e318	I am basically quite happy to have the president in his back today, because in 2002, as the Labour Party leader, he said that an important matter for the Workers' Party should be to lower the car charges. I fully understand that we did not do that in the four years we were in government. From his last government period, Stoltenberg had given us a too long list of taxes and taxes that had to be lowered first to restore the dynamism of the Norwegian economy. But it is true that if we are to introduce a tax and tax system for cars, the danger of conversion is only in the environmental direction that the safe cars are becoming more expensive. Folksam, the Swedish insurance company, has made calculations that show how many lives can be saved. Moving to Norwegian conditions is that if our entire car park had been from after 2000, we could have saved 100 lives in traffic in Norway because of safer cars. The danger of doing a conversion, which Right also agrees with, but we also want to lower the car charges, is that you do not get safer cars in Norway, and you get more killed. Is that a concern of the Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-26.ana.ud1963e323	I'm very concerned about road safety, and based on the knowledge that all the professionals have acquired this government, and that the previous government was certainly familiar with, it's much more important to invest in roads. That is why we have provided for increased road investment, increased transport investment, compared to what the previous government both adopted and added. In fact, I am proud that there had to be a government with SV, the Central Party and the Workers' Party to increase our efforts in the transport sector. It's good for business. This is good for accessibility, but it is also very important in terms of road safety. That's why I think there's a lot of other things, both within well-being and within, for example. transportation, which comes up higher on the list when I will choose, than a general reduction in car charges, although of course it would have been nice. But I promise a few billion there, there's fewer billions in another area, and there's other things I think come first.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-26.ana.ud1963e328	There will be follow-up questions – first Jan Tore Sanner.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-26.ana.ud1963e332	I notice that the Prime Minister is more concerned with attacking the Right than with answering questions. The reality is that in the last period, we were giving priority to cutting taxes on business in order to speed up the economy. We let people keep a little bit more of their own income, and we removed the entire house tax. We have been open that we believe it is during this period that priority must be given to setting charges on the car. The simple question the Prime Minister got is: What cars are going to be more expensive? When the Prime Minister says that he wants a conversion within a so-called Provenance-neutral framework, which sounds very secretive, that means that there are some cars that are going to be cheaper, and there are environmentally friendly cars. Right-wing agreement. But when the Prime Minister is not willing to lower the general level of car charges, that means that many cars are going to be more expensive. The question to the Prime Minister is, which one is it? These are the cars that people see as safe, safe family cars, which include: used as company cars for state councils and others? What cars, Prime Minister, are going to be more expensive?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-26.ana.ud1963e339	Once we have notified a review of the car charges, it is precisely because we believe that we need a review, and we have not concluded until we submit the proposals we have. Then Jan Tore Sanner will get answers to all his questions. We want to take things in the right order – first consider, look at arguments for and against, and then present a proposal to the Stortinget. The right may then be in favour of or against that proposal when they see a concrete proposal. But we therefore believe, contrary to the Right – and it is a perfectly honest matter that the Right and the Workers' Party disagree – that there are other things in society that are more important than lowering taxes and taxes in general. We want a fairer tax system. We want a fairer charging system, but we think it's more important to have money in common, whether it's for retirement, for the unemployed, for school or for the unemployed. That's why we've had more for the disabled, more for the unemployed, more for the elderly, more for school because we've had the strength, strength, or the ability to say no to some things Right says yes to. Now the right is repeating its tax promises, which I think are fundamentally crazy, and I think it's an expression that the right is struggling with the polls, when they start with that kind of tax rhetoric.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-26.ana.ud1963e346	Gjermund Hagesetter – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-26.ana.ud1963e349	All figures show that a newer and better car park causes fewer traffic accidents. This is also clearly established by researchers from SINTEF. Renewal of the car park is achieved by making new cars far more spacious than they are today. The entry fee must be reduced, and one should also increase the wreckage, as the Progress Party proposed in its alternative state budget. Measures will save a lot of lives and, in addition to saving many for personal suffering, such developments will also bring economic benefits to the state. My question to the Prime Minister is: does the Prime Minister see the relationship between high car charges, high average age at the car park and many killed, and does the Prime Minister see the context that if we reduce car charges, we will also get less damage and kill in traffic?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-26.ana.ud1963e356	I have said, and I would like to repeat it to the representative, that we are reviewing the car charges, and then we will present our conclusions to the Stortinget. What I'm not into is promising billions for all kinds of purposes. I think it is very important that politicians are able to choose and say what is most important. And even though it would have been very nice to promise many billions at lower car charges, I don't, because I think other things are more important, like, for example. care for the elderly, pensions and schools. There is a need to see the context of policy. There are too many politicians who promise money for all good purposes, and then it goes wrong, because you can't live up to the promises. Therefore, the Progress Party does not make me promise many billions in lower car taxes, but in return, the Advance Party makes me say that I would rather spend that money on the elderly care, school, well-being and work for everyone. Then we're going to create a fairer and better charging system for the cars. We're working on that, and then the proposal comes.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-26.ana.ud1963e365	Lars Sponheim – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-26.ana.ud1963e368	First, let me say that the Prime Minister has observed correctly when he says that the previous government did not give priority to reducing car charges or petrol taxes. We, on the other hand, prioritised relief for business, for home and for individuals. In addition, our priorities included: collective action, which was very important for the Left, and we had a record high collective effort in the last period. The Prime Minister has not mentioned it as one of his priority fields in what he has now mentioned as alternatives to reduced car charges, but I hope he will seize this occasion when he answers me. I believe it is essential that we – of course in combination with a good car policy, environmentally friendly cars, in order to save lives in traffic, safer cars and safer roads – succeed in doing so so that the car is less used in our cities. It's not really made to line up in the cities. It's designed to transport people across distances outside the cities. In cities one should essentially travel collectively. Will the Prime Minister take on such a priority, that is, collective action and would like to see the bicycle routes he has promised so many in the cities, combined with environmentally friendly and safe cars and safe roads outside the cities?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-26.ana.ud1963e377	Some of what I think is most pleasant today is noticing that I agree more with the representative Sponheim than I tend to be. I have agreed with both of his articles. I think they've been good, reflected, nuanced expressions of the center of Norwegian politics, and it's good to see that it's alive. So I agree with what the representative says, that we must also bet on public transport. When I say transportation, I should perhaps be better at clarifying that I am thinking both of roads and of public transport. We got extra appropriations for public transport, for rail, in the new revised budget we provided, and it's very nice that the Left supports it and is for increased efforts on public transport. It's environmentally friendly, but it's also good for the drivers, because there are fewer cars on the roads when more people who have the opportunity can take trains or other public transport. We're going to work on cycle paths. Multiple cycle paths are very good. There are too few bicycle routes available in Norway today, and I am in dialogue with relevant government councils to see what we can do to strengthen the cycle routes in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-26.ana.ud1963e389	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-26.ana.ud1963e392	Today it is 20 years since the dramatic and tragic nuclear accident in Chernobyl. It hit hard. Many thousands were killed in the vicinity. We don't know how long-term the effects are yet. The accident also showed that borders are not protected. High-radioactive radiation was spread across Europe. We were many who hoped and thought that this tragic accident would put an end to nuclear power generation. Unfortunately, it didn't work out that way. Now the nuclear industry is on the offensive. An increasing number of countries are planning to build new nuclear power plants. In Norway, too, this solution has its speakers. In Finland, the world’s largest nuclear reactor is now being built. In the United Kingdom, Tony Blair says that the construction of nuclear power can be part of the solution for achieving the Kyoto targets. The left is skeptical and deeply concerned about the developments we are now seeing. It is true that the new plants are more secure than the old ones, but the waste problem related to the nuclear industry is just as unresolved today as it was when it was narrowed in Chernobyl 20 years ago. Does the Prime Minister of the Left share the concern about the progress of the nuclear industry today? And has the Prime Minister communicated this unrest to his colleagues, for example. in Finland and the United Kingdom — a concern based on the fact that the more facilities one receives, the more problems there are in handling and storing waste?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-26.ana.ud1963e403	I totally share the concern about the environmental problems associated with nuclear power plants, especially for the storage of waste from nuclear power plants. There is also a reason why it is totally inappropriate for this government at any time to support the construction of nuclear power plants in Norway, that there should be some contribution to the Norwegian power balance. It is clear that we too are concerned about environmental problems related to nuclear power plants in our neighbouring countries. There are nuclear power plants in several of the countries in our neighbourhoods: in England, Sweden, Finland and in many other European countries. What's one of our challenges is that we make ourselves dependent on increasingly imported power, and it's also some imported nuclear power. Some of the problem in Norway is that while we used to produce more power than we used in normal years, where it was normal with rainfall and normal temperatures, when it rains normally, when it's usually hot, Norway depends on buying more and more power from our neighboring countries. And it is a problem that we are importing coal power, nuclear power and environmentally damaging power from an increasing number of countries. That is why this government is committed to strengthening the power balance in Norway. That is why we are now building gas power plants and starting work to get CO2 management in place at Kårstø, and that we will step up efforts to develop other new alternative energy sources, to make us less dependent on importing power, and therefore also less dependent on importing e.g. Finnish nuclear power.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-26.ana.ud1963e418	I will give the Prime Minister a new opportunity to answer my question. Is this a problem he has raised with his colleagues in the United Kingdom, for example.? Last Prime Minister Stoltenberg ruled, he promised Left that he would address the Sellafield issue in conversations with Tony Blair. He didn't. It was taken up in letters, but the engagement was not good enough. The Bondevik II government stepped this up, and it gave results. The technetium emissions from Sellafield stopped. This installation remains an environmental and safety risk. This risk will increase with more nuclear power stations in the United Kingdom and more waste to be managed. Can the Prime Minister at this time promise that he will discuss this with Tony Blair, so that we can have expressed concern about nuclear investment, which also means more waste and thus a risk that goes beyond the national border?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-26.ana.ud1963e429	First to Sellafield. I've brought it up on several occasions. First of all, it is correct that we have sent letters. And I know that my colleagues can read and read letters, and get the message there. The second is that I also brought this up in meeting with Tony Blair. I did that not so many years ago, where Sellafield was a main theme in the conversations. We will, if necessary, re-examine this. But it's true that it's now at least been important steps in the right direction. We will follow closely the development of the Sellafield plant and other nuclear installations and review it if necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-26.ana.ud1963e438	There will be follow-up questions – first Odd Einar Dørum.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-26.ana.ud1963e441	I think it's good what the Prime Minister now said about keeping the sea clean and avoiding nuclear pollution. The Prime Minister and his government have rightly followed the line that was also set out by the previous government, namely to see the importance of the northern regions, everything there – geopolitical, environmental and our resources. In this context, there is one thing that has been worrying me as a Norwegian politician and a Norwegian citizen for a long time, and that is that we have a neighbour – the former Soviet Union, the Russian Federation – who, very early through the current political leadership, abolished its Ministry of Environmental Protection, and who has a lot of unresolved environmental problems. But my point in this regard to the Prime Minister, who, together with his government, has spent a great deal of time conducting important dialogues with Russia, is whether he is also pressing here to scrap the Russian plans that have been made to have a comprehensive nuclear transport along the Norwegian coast, along the sea areas on which we are totally dependent, up to the Russian North. Can we get the Prime Minister's guarantee of intensity and commitment so that President Putin can clearly say that this is undesirable from the Norwegian side, just as our Minister for Fisheries has clearly stated in the case of Russian exploitation of fisheries resources in the same areas?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-26.ana.ud1963e448	This government is very concerned with the northern regions in general and also with environmental problems and nuclear safety in particular. Both this and former governments of changing colors have therefore granted money for this work, and we have had close cooperation with the Russian authorities both in the scrapping of old nuclear submarines, nuclear submarines, and in the safety of e.g. the nuclear power plant on the Kola Peninsula. We will continue that cooperation. We will continue to provide this assistance to help reduce the risk of nuclear pollution, for example. in the Barents Sea. Just in the case of transport and which routes are the right and most environmentally friendly, and which are not, I need to spend some more time evaluating it and finding out what must be the best advice and the best recommendations to the Russian authorities. But our whole cooperation programme with the Russians, in which several other countries also participate, is about reducing the risk of nuclear pollution and, therefore, choosing routes that reduce the risk as much as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-26.ana.ud1963e455	Ketil Solvik-Olsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-26.ana.ud1963e458	Energy consumption in the world is increasing, and it will increase dramatically over the next few years. This is why several countries are playing a major role, among other things. nuclear power plants to cover their energy consumption. In the world today, there are 443 nuclear power stations. 27 new ones are under construction, but many more are under construction. Only in China and India will 60 new nuclear power plants be launched in the coming years. Also in our neighbouring country, they have nuclear power stations. In Finland, they are now building the largest, on which Gunnar Kvassheim was in. But in Sweden, where they've given the impression that they're going to invest less in nuclear power plants, they're still getting more production in the remaining nuclear power plants. And not least in our neighbouring countries in the east they have a lot of nuclear power stations that give great cause for environmental concern. Now there are some researchers who look at the possibility of using other things than uranium in nuclear power generation, and there's a lot of research on it, but common to all is that they say there's no money in this. The government is willing to use billions of dollars to realize a CO2 cleaning plant on Kårstø. If the same means had been used on nuclear power and nuclear power, we could get rid of the waste problem and secure the energy supply in the future. Will the government then look at the possibility of contributing to nuclear research in order to get uranium out as a fuel?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-26.ana.ud1963e468	I am a little uncertain about what the Progress Party really thinks, whether it is such that the Progress Party believes that we should also bet on nuclear power plants in Norway. In that case, I disagree. If the Progress Party believes that it is wrong to invest in CO2 management and to spend public money on it, so that we can get gas power plants without emissions of the greenhouse gas CO2, I also disagree with the Progress Party, because I believe it is absolutely necessary that the public use funds to develop profitable technology that enables us to get gas power plants without emissions of the greenhouse gas CO2. I believe that Norway should use the main emphasis of its research efforts in energy in those areas where we think we have a special advantage. There is no doubt that we have a special advantage, a special basis for becoming world leaders and especially good at gas power, because we are a big gas nation, and because we can then develop an energy carrier, strengthen the power supply and develop an environmental technology that the world demands, both because it needs power, and because it needs ways to deal with the greenhouse gas CO2. So I perceived the question almost as a criticism that the government is spending money on CO2 cleaning. I think that is wrong. And we have limited research on nuclear power. We have something at the Halden reactor, and we're going to keep doing that, but we don't have any plans to escalate that business significantly.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-26.ana.ud1963e492	There has been a touching consensus in Norwegian policy for many years that we should not use nuclear power. We're going to be fine in other ways. We have largely done so far by importing more, among other things. nuclear power. Whether that energy policy impresses the world can certainly be discussed. The sister parties they have tried to contact are obviously not impressed, because it is not that the sister party of a liberal or a social democratic party in Norway – in Germany, Finland or Sweden – necessarily follows Norwegian views because we falsify them. It's part of the world of reality. This, combined with the fact that there is increasing attention to CO2 emissions, and that there is limited capacity for reinjection, even if good technology is to be found, also leads to increasing attention to nuclear power. I think we have to recognise that nuclear power will come as one of several energy carriers in the years to come. Then is my question to the Prime Minister, since he concluded by saying that the Halden and Kjeller environments would not be destroyed: is it not important at least to assure these environments that they can continue, because they are researching and developing nuclear safety and are internationally sought? It'll be our small national contribution to nuclear safety in a day like this.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-26.ana.ud1963e502	I agree, to the extent, with both the messages contained in the question from the representative Foss. One is that I don't think the world is particularly impressed with Norway, which is opposed to a wide range of energy carriers like coal power, nuclear power, etc., but which import more and more of it. The answer to that is that we should try to make ourselves less dependent on imports, because it's a little weird to be against nuclear power, but using nuclear power, being against coal power, but importing coal power. That's the one. The second is that I agree that the Kjeller and Halden environments have very valuable competences and contribute to increased safety related to the use of radioactive substances by nuclear power. We want to go on with that. What I was a little uncertain about was whether the previous questioner thought we should not bet on CO2 management. So I strongly support the fact that we are paying for CO2 management, because there is Norway in a very special situation. In the case of nuclear power plants, many other countries have far more competence and have come further, but we need to maintain and develop the competences we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-26.ana.ud1963e517	Line Henriette Holten Heimdal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-26.ana.ud1963e521	The Christian People's Party is against nuclear power. We think the developments we see in the country, and the discussion that goes on in other countries, are unfortunate. But nuclear power is on the rise, and when it's on the rise, the safety of our nuclear power stations is very important. The work of the Institute of Energy Engineering in Halden and Kjeller, to which the Prime Minister has referred, is crucial in relation to the competences they give to leading actors in this market. I recently had a conversation with representatives of IFE. They are concerned because in Russia there are 13 reactors with the same type of technology as the Chernobyl reactor had. We have to be able to ask questions about whether we've come a few steps further in the last 20 years, or whether we have as large environmental bombs in front of us as we had at the time. We've heard about it on the radio today. We're not going to relax for a minute. We're not going to leave this to the next generation. My question will then be: have we taken neighbouring responsibility for spending money, but are we able to understand whether the money is being spent properly, so that the security of these power plants is being upgraded, as is the intention of cooperation between Russia and Norway in this area?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-26.ana.ud1963e530	I fully agree that the environments we have at Kjeller and Halden, which operate with nuclear physics and with the safety of nuclear reactors, are very important environments. I have also been responsible for them in their time, and know that they are doing an impressive job and a work we need even if we don't have nuclear power plants ourselves. That's the one. The second is that we are concerned that the money we spend to contribute to nuclear safety and reduce the risk of nuclear accidents in our neighbouring areas, especially in North-West Russia, is being used as best possible. Of course, part of our bet in the north is that we are constantly going through and assessing whether the money can be used better, whether we can cooperate in other ways to ensure that we get as much back for the efforts we are making for nuclear safety in Russia.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-26.ana.ud1963e537	So today's oral Question Time is over, and we're going to the ordinary Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-26.ana.ud1963e543	There will be a wide range of changes in the list of questions set out, and in this context the President will refer to the overview presented in the seats of the representatives. The President will propose, despite the fact that he will express his dissatisfaction that so many changes are necessary, that the changes are accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Questions 1, 3 and 4 from the representatives of Bård Hoksrud, Line Henriette Holten Hemdal and Jan Tore Sanner respectively to the Minister for Finance are postponed to the next Question Time when the Council of State has left. Question 2, from the representative of Gunnar Gundersen to the Minister for Finance, has been transferred to the Minister for the Protection of the Environment who is directing him. Question 5, from the representative Kari Lise Holmberg to the local and regional minister, will be raised by the representative Torbjørn Hansen. Question 8, from the representative Jon Lilletun to the Minister for Development, will be moved and answered at the request of the Council of State to answer question 25, i.e. at the end of the Questionnaire. Question 10, from the representative Peter Skovholt Gitmark to the Minister for Food and Trade, has been transferred to the Minister for Labour and Inclusion, who is responsible for the matter. Question 11, from the representative Petter Løvik to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade, has been transferred to the Minister for Oil and Energy, who is directing him. Questions 15, 16, 17, 18, 20 and 22, from the representatives of Ine Marie Eriksen, Odd Einar Dørum, Borghild Tenden, Trine Skei Grande, Vera Lysklätt and May Helen Molvær Grimstad respectively, are postponed to the next Question Time when the Council of State has left. Question 19, from the representative Anne Margrethe Larsen to the Minister of Knowledge, has been transferred to the Minister of Labour and Inclusion, who is directly responsible. However, the question falls because the questioner is not present. Question 21, from the representative Anders Anundsen to the Minister of Knowledge, will be answered by the Minister of Labour and Inclusion on behalf of the Minister of Knowledge, who has been away.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-26.ana.ud1963e580	The question has been postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-26.ana.ud1963e587	This question, from the representative of Gunnar Gundersen to the Minister for Finance, has been transferred to the Minister for the Protection of the Environment who is directing him.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-26.ana.ud1963e590	I allow myself to ask the Minister for the Environment the following questions: ‘One of the main arguments against impregnated wood is that ecotoxicants are used to achieve the necessary protection. Alternative methods have now been developed that produce the same effect on degradation without negative environmental consequences. However, at cost, the alternative methods cannot compete with the current impregnation method and it is therefore difficult to motivate someone to make the necessary investments. Will the Council consider using instruments to stimulate new methods of impregnation?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-26.ana.ud1963e604	Copper is currently mostly used for wood impregnation, bottoms on boats and impregnation of nuts in the farming industry. These three uses add up to a total annual emissions of 685 tonnes, corresponding to around 80 pst. of all copper emissions in Norway. It is a national target that copper emissions should be significantly reduced by 2010. I aim to reduce the use of copper for wood impregnation, bottoms for boats and notary impregnation. In the Soria Moria Declaration, the Government says that it will ban copper from impregnation of wood and work actively to make environmentally friendly alternatives profitable. State pollution control has assessed the means of banning, charging and leaching requirements for the three main uses and considers that more than one instrument is possible. I will now ask the SFT to draw up a concrete proposal for a ban on copper in wood impregnation and to clarify the consequences of this. I would also like to assess the need and possibilities to impose a charge on the use of copper in relation to several uses.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-26.ana.ud1963e613	I thank you for a thorough review of the problem. It's copper. It is good that the Council of States is following up and focusing on this area. This opens up many ways for new opportunities in Norwegian forestry, because it is both about replacing rainforest material, which is currently used, and about promoting Norwegian eco-innovation. However, I am sceptical about a ban. These are materials that are quite important in a market, and there are also many producers using them today. I would rather recommend to the Minister for the Environment the use of the fee instrument. It will create a completely different, justifiable, transition into a new system. I believe there is full agreement that this innovation that has now emerged should be phased into the market as quickly as possible, just to avoid unfortunate environmental impacts. I hope the Council of State will take it into consideration in the further assessments.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-26.ana.ud1963e620	I want to express great pleasure at the fact that we have a common concern about reducing the use of copper, because it's such a dangerous environmental poison. The SFT has assessed both prohibitions, fees and leaching requirements. I believe that we will end up with a combination of bans and charges, bans in the areas where use is most extensive, and charges in the other areas. I am pleased with the recording and promise the representative that I will take it further.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-26.ana.ud1963e627	It is good to hear that in this context the SFT will investigate this, because they already have a good understanding of the problem through a work they did in 2005. I therefore feel reasonably confident that it will be assessed so that we do not stop the market and burden today's producers too much without ensuring that there is a proper transition. There are also quite a number of jobs around the country. With this, I think we can find sensible solutions to this problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-26.ana.ud1963e634	I would like to stress that part of what we do when we look at prohibition is to assess the consequences and any necessary exceptions. I believe that this process should be well-managed, and that we should achieve the objective that is important, namely to phase out environmental expenditure.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-26.ana.ud1963e661	These questions have been postponed until the next question time.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-26.ana.ud1963e668	This question, from the representative Kari Lise Holmberg to the local and regional minister, will be raised by the representative Torbjørn Hansen.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-26.ana.ud1963e671	I will ask the following questions to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs: ‘Right-wing representatives have tried several times to ask the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs about the Government’s attitude to municipal autonomy, on the basis of concrete examples of state overarching. These have been consistently answered by the sectoral Council of State. How will the State Council take over the overall responsibility of the Government to protect municipal autonomy from sectoral interests?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-26.ana.ud1963e680	A living local democracy is the foundation of popular rule and a prerequisite for trust and legitimacy in the National People's Government. Local authorities have overall responsibility for the provision of welfare to their citizens, and this should be ensured by providing the municipalities with sufficient resources and freedom of action to perform their tasks. Municipalities are mainly to receive their income through framework funding, and the Government emphasises a greater interaction between state and local authorities through dialogue and consultation. All of this is the basis of the Government's policy for the governance of municipalities and shows that the basis of the Government's policy in relation to the municipal sector is an overall perspective. The representative of Holmberg, who originally asked the question, indicates that previous enquiries addressed to me have been answered by the sectoral government council. The current system is structured around the principle of sectoral responsibility, which means that when a State Council is responsible for an area, it also applies at municipal level. This means that the sectoral councils will respond to enquiries in their field of competence. That's the way it has been, and that's how it's going to have to be. As a municipal minister, I have a special responsibility for coordinating the state governance of the municipal sector, so that the overall perspective and the local maritime administration are ensured in the best possible way. Coordination is ongoing in the ministerial system and, in all matters relating to the municipal sector, the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs is to be involved. The Ministry is also in the process of completing a municipal reform guide to facilitate State authorities to take into account the overall governance principles that apply to the local government sector when implementing reforms. The best example of coordination between ministries is the annual municipal proposal presented in May. The Proposition addresses the main issues for municipalities, and it forms part of an interaction between the Ministry of Coordination and the Department of Local and Regional Affairs. Another example is work on the further development of the consultation mechanism between the State and the Municipalities’ Central Association, which is to ensure dialogue and care for the interests of the municipal sector. In several areas of importance for municipalities, I aim to present issues to the Storting in the future, coordination issues that are therefore presented by me. I would like, among other things: present an out-of-office proposal on State supervision aimed at the local government sector. There will also be a review of earmarked grant schemes, in which the Storting will be involved. All of these matters will provide ample opportunity to put the issue of the municipal maritime administration on the agenda, which I look forward to.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-26.ana.ud1963e699	I would like to thank you for your answer. The programme formulations put forward by the Council of State now and in other contexts on the importance of local self-government are of little value when practice is different. If the local government has a self-esteem and a right to equal distribution throughout the country, the government must be able to accept that decisions are taken in the municipalities in which the government disagrees. Only then do you have real autonomy. Now 42 coastal rapporteurs – with SV at the head – have brought a blow to the Government about over-testing of the municipal autonomy of the coastal zone. In central party-driven Forsand they are not allowed to build new cabins, as a result of government policy in this area. What concrete action does the Council of State intend to take to shift power from the Councils of State and the State down to the municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-26.ana.ud1963e710	The representative and I fully agree that the local maritime administration has self-esteem, and that we should hang out on the local maritime administration. We have that as a starting point, and that's what we live for in our daily business. So it will always be that there are some sectors that we rely on to have national plans for. It is a continuous reflection of how we should be able to respond to the national needs of national plans and national holistic approaches, and to give local authorities freedom of action. Our starting point is that we're going to find the right balance point. And when we seek to make these decisions, the consideration of the local maritime administration is absolutely crucial.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-26.ana.ud1963e719	I also thank you for this answer. I still believe that the real effort on self-government will result from the concrete decisions made by the government, and I note that several concrete decisions made by the government have gone beyond local self-government. In yesterday's Political Quarter, the Central Party's municipal political spokesman, Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum, played out that the Government would deprive the statesmen of political power. We're assuming that this is also true in land and soil protection matters. The right-hand side supports this. But we're not just concerned with depriving the statesmen of power. We're also concerned about how that power is being moved into the system. If the power of the municipalities is transferred, the Centre Party shall receive full support from the Right. But if it just moves up to a new regional level, it just gets worse for local self-government. So here I would recommend to the Council of State to listen to the previous centre party leader, who today's Evening Post warns against the new regions. The question is, where should power be moved when the power is to be decentralised?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-26.ana.ud1963e730	There is a big and comprehensive discussion on how to develop the regions in Norway, and we had an interpellant debate on this in the Storting yesterday. In this field, there are different views between the parties, and it is very well known that the Right wants a two-level model. The government has said it wants a three-level model. The Christian People's Party and the Left made it clear in the debate yesterday that they want to be constructive fellow players in developing this intermediate level. The administrative reform/regional reform must be a popular governance reform and a decentralisation reform. Power must be moved from central bodies to closer people. What we are talking about mainly in the context of the administrative reform is strengthening the regional level, but it does not exclude that new tasks can also be transferred to the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-26.ana.ud1963e743	I have the following questions for the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs: ‘The Council of State has stated several times: ‘It is therefore not difficult to obtain a net operating surplus of more than 3 pst. This can be achieved simply by cutting municipal services. The total share of municipalities in care services and primary schools has been reduced in 2005 to improve the overall operating performance of the municipal sector, and what is the main explanation of the increase in net operating performance of municipalities in 2005?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-26.ana.ud1963e752	Preliminary figures for 2005 show that primary school and care services increased service output around the time of the increase in the number of students and the number of elderly. In primary schools, the number of hours of education per person increased. students due to the extension of hours, while the percentage of hours spent in special education was slightly reduced. In the care sector, preliminary figures show an increase of between 500 and 2100 years of age; the increase is probably closer to 500 than 2100. There are considerable variations between municipalities. Not all municipalities have managed to maintain the service offer as well. There are several factors that have contributed to improving net operating surplus in 2005. Municipalities that lost their share of the new VAT compensation scheme in 2004 were compensated for this by a one-off allocation in the autumn of 2005. Tax revenue was higher than estimated in the 2005 budget. The new provision for the management of pension costs has given municipalities a saving in 2005 compared to what the expenditure would have been with the old regulation. Furthermore, there is broad agreement that municipalities spend too little money on maintenance. This also contributes to a higher net operating surplus. Many municipalities have used parts of the significant income growth in 2005 to strengthen the financial situation. All 80 pst. of the municipalities with a negative result in 2004, came out with a positive result in 2005. This suggests that, with weak results, most municipalities in 2004 have focused on strengthening their financial balance sheet. This shows that the municipalities act responsibly in relation to the financial framework, but that does not mean that the service offer according to Regereninga's assessment is good enough. Strengthening the local economy is needed to enable municipalities to provide more and better services to their inhabitants. I am constantly getting feedback from the people who experience that their nearest person is not getting the offer they are entitled to. The improved financial situation in the municipal sector is a good foundation for better municipal services in the future. In 2006, the Government has significantly increased the income of the local government sector and the ambition is that the free revenues should be significantly strengthened during the flooding period.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-26.ana.ud1963e761	The response shows, as the Technical Calculation Committee has come to the conclusion in respect of developments in 2005, that the main reason for the surplus, or operating surplus, is the growth of income. Will the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs now take advantage of the opportunity to withdraw the claim she made in an oral Question Time before Easter that the main reason was cut off from the municipal services?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-26.ana.ud1963e766	As I said in my answer, there are different reasons why you came out with a good net operating result in 2005. I mentioned the VAT compensation scheme, which came at the end of the year. I mentioned the tax revenue, which was slightly higher than estimated, and I mentioned new rules for pension management. This is partly grip like the sitting government did last year's harvest to improve the situation. A net operating surplus of 3 pst. is important to have, because then you have a stable economic foundation in the municipalities. But this does not say anything about the services you have around the municipalities. Thus, having a net operating surplus at a certain level is not an objective in itself, but it is important to be able to have a stable economic situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-26.ana.ud1963e773	The description of the cause of the operating result is quite correct, but it is quite different from the following description: ‘But it is not difficult to get a net operating result of more than 3 pst. This can be achieved simply by cutting into municipal services.’ I again asked the Council of State to take advantage of the opportunity to withdraw the incorrect claim.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-26.ana.ud1963e783	I can't withdraw that claim, because it's a completely correct description of the situation. There is no problem for a municipality to get a net operating result of 3 pst., at 5 pst., at 10 pst. It depends entirely on what you do with the expenditure side, and on what you do with the service sector. I could have undertaken to get a net operating result of well over 3 pst. in any municipality, regardless of the economic situation of the municipality, but there would have been some consequences for the service provision. There is a deep disagreement between this Government and the Right. We strongly disagree on the services to be provided in the municipalities. We believe that the service offer today is not good enough. We believe that it should be strengthened within school, health, care and culture. We are concerned that municipalities should also have the opportunity to develop the role that has been played too badly in recent years, namely the role of social development.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-26.ana.ud1963e799	I have a question for the Minister of Oil and Energy: ‘I have raised Statoil’s request for a new thermal energy plant at Mongstad in the past, and am surprised that the Council of State only outlines the procedure and does not provide a political signal or attitude to the project in a wider perspective. Of course, I am aware that the matter is being dealt with by the NVE. Has not the Council of State and the government to which it belongs, a policy which can indicate how to assess a matter which is therefore crucial to the power situation, the environment and the development of industry and industry?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-26.ana.ud1963e808	Statoil's planned gas power project at Mongstad is an exciting project. The CHP plant shall supply the Mongstad refinery with electricity and heat as well as the Troll A platform and gas treatment plant in Kollsnes with electricity. In addition, a new gas pipeline is planned from Kolsnes to Mongstad as well as necessary connections to and conversions in the refinery. I think it is positive that we now see more current energy projects in the West. The evolution of the force balance in recent years has shown that new generation capacity is needed, especially in relation to the variations we can experience in hydropower generation from year to year. I have noticed that the planned CHP plant is expected to achieve a very high efficiency – 70 pst. With the link to the energy needs of industry at the Mongstad refinery and at Troll, Mongstad appears to be a project where we achieve very good use of gas resources. As the representative of Halleraker correctly points out, the application for a concession under the Energy Act and for a concession for the gas pipeline Kollsnes-Mongstad is now dealt with in the NVE, with possible subsequent appeal proceedings in the Oil and Energy Ministry. The application for an emission permit is now pending in the SFT. The SFT will make a recommendation to the Ministry of the Environment, which will then examine the application. It is therefore not right for me to comment on the application now, but I have tried to express my view of the project. I hope that can be satisfactory for the representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-26.ana.ud1963e819	I thank you for the answer, which I see as a lot more positive than what I got in writing. I hope that the treatment will lead to Statoil getting a response before the end of the summer, which they have wanted. Mongstad is one of the largest refineries in northern Europe. Upgrading the heating and energy system and transition to gas-based power will bring significant environmental benefits, but will also significantly strengthen the power balance in an area that is increasingly under pressure. A controversial transmission line through Hardanger is notified by Statnet as absolutely necessary if the energy situation is not improved in this area. I therefore have a follow-up question: does the Council of State see the win-win situation for industrial development, for the power situation and for the environmental situation to which Mongstad development contributes positively?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-26.ana.ud1963e828	It does so, especially if at the top of this, the many preliminary results – as we already see – of the government's efforts to establish a CO2 chain are added. This has led industry to become offensive on the ground and to look at the possibilities of using CO2 to increase oil extraction. Looking at a good energy project in the context of the opportunities to manage CO2 in a value chain – it should make it attractive in this area too – this could be a very exciting project. So I have great expectations of what Statoil and Shell are now planning on at Mongstad. The government has come a long way with the work on Kårstø. Internationally, the management of CO2 also arouses both visibility and increased interest. This means that in many ways we're going over in a new era when it comes to using gas for power generation, which could also have implications for Mongstad. It's an exciting project.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-26.ana.ud1963e847	I thank you again for the answer, which I see as constructive and positive. The Mongstad expansion will result in the installation of a gas pipeline from Kolsnes in Eyegarden to Mongstad. This provides pleasant opportunities for other exciting industrial developments in the area and therefore represents an important part of the overall picture in assessing this issue. Both in Slövåg in Gulen municipality and Luteland in Fjaler municipality there are great plans for exciting industrial development. One depends on the supply of gas, and primarily on the extension of the new pipeline to Mongstad. I expect the Council of State to know these plans, and I therefore ask whether this possible, exciting industrial development will be given priority when the Government is going to make its decisions on Mongstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-26.ana.ud1963e856	I have attended a large meeting in this area on the industrial plans available, and I also see it as very exciting. Of course, we will look carefully at how it is possible to contribute to the realization of these plans when we consider this application. It is now the case that this application is to be dealt with in those bodies. Of course, the opportunities for industrial development and the things we are now discussing will be followed up, and the decisions relating to concession will be crucial for how to follow up the things that are here. The industrial projects located in this area are very exciting and offer opportunities for industrial use of gas.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-26.ana.ud1963e863	Question no. 8 will be answered at the end of the question hour.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-26.ana.ud1963e870	I have a question for the Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade: ‘SIVA Fornebu AS refuses to participate in the planned capital increase of IT Fornebu Incubator AS. With this policy, the state runs away from its previous promises and slows down the positive development that has taken place at IT Fornebu. What will the Council of State do to make the remaining 22 million. kr of the investment framework for the State’s Fornebu exposure is granted, and what will be done to ensure active State involvement in the development of IT Fornebu, in line with the intentions?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-26.ana.ud1963e879	The state has invested at the base of 403 million. kr in the IT Fornebu companies. In addition, the State contributes, inter alia, to: with funds for the operation of the Research Centre Simula and with funds for the establishment of a forward-looking transport solution at Fornebu. In other words, state intervention is significant and is a good example of public-private cooperation. The initial allocation was reduced by 22 million. kr as a result of the fact that this amount was not used when the possibility of further suspension of use expired. In other words, the funds were withdrawn as a result of their non-disposal within the given time period, in line with the allocation regulations laid down by the Stortinget. When IT Fornebu several years later promoted a request for a payment of 22 million. Therefore, there will be a question of a new allocation. And no matter how good the purpose is, it has to be assessed for other good purposes. The government has come to the conclusion that we do not want to make proposals for re-allocation. However, the state does not withdraw from the Fornebu IT cooperation – on the contrary. We have considerable resources in place, and we will help to ensure that IT Fornebu continues to succeed in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-26.ana.ud1963e890	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It is true that these 22 million could not be granted automatically, but the Council of State and the Government could make a proposal to the Stortingen about this. You don't have the intention to do that, and I think that's gross. The current Prime Minister, Jens Stoltenberg, stated in the election campaign that he saw it as natural and correct that the state has an active relationship with how IT Fornebu will develop. Despite the commitment that is still there, it is well known that in order to get the well-functioning public-private cooperation that you want, and the development that the whole area needs, it must follow up. This follow-up now seems to be missing. The Council of State feels comfortable failing to meet the electoral commitments, among other things. The current Prime Minister gave, with what is now the result?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-26.ana.ud1963e899	It is quite obvious that this government is following up all the election commitments we have given relating to IT fornebu. It also proves the considerable effort made by the state. We've granted 400 million. SEK to IT Fornebu, while we have a basic government funding for the Simula Centre of 50 million. kr. This should in itself mean that we do not conduct a passive policy in relation to IT fornebu. In addition, the market situation for this industry has changed significantly in a positive direction from the time it entered and contributed to the establishment of IT Fornebu. So much lies at ease if the board takes the responsibility of the board, and helps to use the market to increase activity, and stimulates further investment in IT fornebu.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-26.ana.ud1963e906	Once again, I thank the Council of State for the answer. Now, the Council of State almost seems to be representing the previous government, who wanted the state to play a minimal role in this type of project. To get this project in place, the Progress Party and the Workers' Party took a joint initiative. The government itself has said that it wants to be more ongoing and active in business policy. The board of IT Fornebu says that they now need time to adjust their ambitions and build a more modest strategy for IT Fornebu. Does that council not worry – on such a central project as the Workers' Party has a significant responsibility to get in place? Should not the Council of State in a dialogue with the Governing Board now take time to find out how best to get the progress that was suggested when this project was launched?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-26.ana.ud1963e915	I would like to repeat that this government has an extremely active commitment to IT fornebu. I've visited the Fornebu Center myself. I've had a meeting in the department with representatives from the board. We have contributed more than 400 million investments from the state. kr, and we have a basic funding for the Simula Centre in the order of 50 million. kr annually. This means that we have an active relationship with the development of IT fornebu. It is, as I said, the responsibility of the board to ensure the development of the centre. I think that the Governing Board's ambitions are very modest if you are unable to see the significant opportunities that are in the market today, which are almost at the top. If you do not then see the possibilities lying there, and take advantage of them, I will deeply regret it. But that is the responsibility of the board, in addition to the considerable sums that the government has allocated to the centre.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-26.ana.ud1963e926	This question, from the representative Peter Skovholt Gitmark to the Minister for Food and Trade, will be answered by the Minister for Labour and Inclusion as appropriate.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-26.ana.ud1963e931	I now have the following questions for the Minister of Labour and Inclusion: ‘A number of Norwegian enterprises find it difficult to find and employ highly skilled labour from the EEA territory. At the same time, Norwegian industry is increasing its presence outside Europe and thus the proportion of non-EEA citizens among its employees. What will the Council of State do to facilitate access to foreign highly skilled labour by Norwegian enterprises and will the Council of State work to make it possible for multiple visas to be used for employees of Norwegian companies from countries such as Norway. India, Singapore and China?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-26.ana.ud1963e940	The Government is concerned that access to the necessary skilled labour should not be a barrier to the development of Norwegian enterprises. Among other things, the cross-border labour mobility legislation shall contribute to this. Citizens of EEA countries are free to take up work in Norway, however, so that citizens from eight of the new EU countries must be authorised by the UDI or the police in line with the requirements of the Norwegian transitional regime before they can start work. Over the past few years, we have seen strong growth in labour supply from EEA countries, particularly from Poland and Lithuania. It has helped fill jobs where there has been a shortage of Norwegian labour. In recent years, the foreign authorities have had a quota of 5000 work permits for skilled persons from outside the EEA without requiring an assessment of the need for labour migration. The purpose of this allowance has been to ensure predictability for Norwegian employers and to enable them to access rapidly the necessary skills. This allowance has not been a restriction on employers’ ability to hire labour from non-EEA countries. In 2005, 1 200 authorisations were granted under this scheme. In the first two months of this year, 254 permits were granted. This was about 100 more than in the same period last year. From the three countries represented by Gitmark, India, Singapore and China, about 50 people were authorised in the first two months of this year. These figures suggest that the quota of 5000 work permits currently does not hinder Norwegian employers’ desire to employ skilled labour from outside the EEA. Persons from non-EEA countries may also be granted a work permit under the scheme specifically aimed at multinational companies wishing to collect highly skilled labour into Norway from a foreign branch or a subsidiary. In such cases, the foreign national must comply with the general terms of the work permit under foreign law. I have been signaled that in some cases with today's legislative practice, it may be a problem to get a work permit issued in cases where the company cannot be considered a multinational company. I'll take a closer look at this. There is currently good growth in the Norwegian economy, and we are experiencing high employment and falling unemployment. In such a situation, some types of skilled labour may be lacking. The globalisation of parts of business can reinforce such a need. As part of the work on the 2007 budget, the government will therefore review the need for new measures by the authorities to ensure that enterprises have access to the necessary labour from abroad.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-26.ana.ud1963e951	I thank you for your answer. I want to draw the attention of the Council of State to a local enterprise, Aker Kværner MH in Kristiansand, which is located in the middle of a strong offshore cluster that builds and assembles the world's most advanced drilling parks. They have a strong need for more high-tech labour. There is also a shortage of goods throughout the EEA territory. The equipment they build is tested in Norway, but it is compiled in Azerbaijan, Singapore, Korea and China, and the personnel they hire from abroad from these countries here, regardless of their highly competent background, need to be trained in Norway. The problem is that engineers only receive a three-month visa to Norway before they have to leave for three new months and then return to Norway. Does the Council of State see this as a major problem for some companies that do not fall within the scope of what the Council of State says about multinational companies? What does the Council of State want to do to solve this problem as quickly as possible?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-26.ana.ud1963e962	Of course, I see the situation that the questioner describes, and I fully agree with the questioner that it is important to find solutions to that kind of challenge. And as I said in my answer, we are now reviewing the whole area with a view to coming up with proposals. Among the identified problems that we share – the government and the questioner – is the company that is obviously in an international situation but is not defined as a multinational company. As I said in my answer, let's especially look at it. However, what I'm in doubt about is whether the solution to this challenge is multiple visas. Visas are not normally an instrument linked to labour immigration. It is a work permit and a residence permit that is the starting point. The visa issue is more for business travellers who need to come to Norway often. The tool I'm a little in doubt about, but that we have to do something about the problem, I agree with the questioner.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-26.ana.ud1963e971	I thank the Council of State for wanting to grab hold of it and come up with solutions to it. The reason why multiple visas have emerged is that there has been the only possibility for these companies to attract labour for a shorter period of training to Norway. The problem has been that engineers had to be sent out of Norway after three months in the country. It is not appropriate, and it does not serve Norwegian industry at all. When the time perspective here is the 2007 budget, I am satisfied with it. At the same time, one sees that, among other things, Norwegian labour immigration policy needs to be adapted more and more to be employed by Norwegian companies, but in their foreign counterparts, and they need training in Norway before they want to return to the country from which they come and have received their education. Norwegian labour migration also needs to adapt. Do the councils agree?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-26.ana.ud1963e978	I agree that there are challenges that it is important that we find good solutions, but I still doubt the instrument proposed by the representative Gitmark. As far as I remember, even if you get a multiple visa – it is a Schengen visa, and then it applies to the Schengen acquis – it is so that you can enter and leave Norway several times in a year. However, in the course of a six-month period, no more than three months can be spent in Norway. Even if we had issued a multiple visa to the people who are involved in the representative Gitmark, we would have been equally far. We probably need to have a more offensive attitude to this issue than the questioner has as a starting point.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-26.ana.ud1963e987	This question, from the representative Petter Løvik to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade, will be answered by the Minister for Oil and Energy, as appropriate.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-26.ana.ud1963e990	I allow myself to ask the following questions: ‘Safe availability of reasonable electricity is important for the business community in Central Norway. The Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade rejected earlier this year, through NTB on 27 March, the fact that the price of electricity in this area could be strongly increased to reduce consumption. The Minister for Oil and Energy has later stated that such an increase may still be relevant. It's unfortunate when the government's signal is so cracking. Does the Council still reject a strong price increase in order to reduce consumption?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-26.ana.ud1963e999	Let me just begin by pointing out that this question, which was addressed to the Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade about the power situation in Central Norway, should be answered by me as the person responsible for this subject. It's clear that a strong price increase in electricity in central Norway is no way to solve the challenges we're facing in this area. I have also confirmed that in all my answers. However, what I have been asked about in several contexts is whether it is not appropriate to create a separate price range in central Norway. There is something else, and I will also try to answer that question. For the Government, the aim is not to make power prices in Norway unacceptable. Large price differences between parts of the country should therefore not occur, especially over longer periods. Measures to achieve this were reviewed in my response of 7 April to questions relating to a written answer – No. 688. There are a number of measures to be used to achieve the highest possible level of social rational power supply. But there are basically no instruments that can be completely excluded, either in central Norway or in other parts of the country. Agents must be put into service according to the needs of the situation in question. The creation of price ranges is an important instrument in the power market. Statnet is required by the NVE to determine price ranges in order to manage large and long-term bottlenecks in the regional and central networks. In addition, Statnet shall normally determine separate price ranges in the event of expected energy shortages in a demarcated geographical area. The possible creation of new price ranges has been focused on the management of the power situation in Central Norway. This is one of the possible tools Statnett has today, and I cannot rule out that it will be valid again in central Norway with such a price range. The introduction of new price ranges will include, inter alia: contribute to increasing the power supply in the area and will give signals to producers and consumers so that they can relate effectively to the power situation in the area. Without the use of price ranges, Statnett’s ability to deal with strenuous power situations will be significantly limited, and since 2000, Statnett has introduced price ranges as a result of the power situation in the Møre region three times. So three times after the year 2000, in the area we're talking about here. In St.meld. No 18 for 2003–04 on security of supply for electricity, etc., as presented by the Bondevik II Government, tools were discussed to deal with very strenuous power situations. In line with the notification, the possibility for Statnet to establish price ranges is a prerequisite for the effective functioning of those instruments in order to avoid rationalisation. I would also like to remind you that price ranges are also used to handle bottlenecks in the transmission system in the Nordic power market, and also between North and South Norway. Therefore, the use of price ranges is one of the possible instruments behind which the Government is of course behind. The situation in Central Norway is demanding, and I can assure you that a general government is working to get a permanent and robust solution to the power situation in this area, while we are now also working to have the best possible temporary solutions until permanent production can be in place. It is, as mentioned at the outset, an objective that large price differences should be avoided, and I do not see price mechanisms as a one-sided way to solve the challenges we face in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-26.ana.ud1963e1016	I thank the Council of State for a full answer. When I originally sent the question to the Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade, it was in the light of the fact that this is a matter that I have faced the Minister of Oil and Energy several times before, and the Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade has come to indicate that it will be relatively little topical to increase these prices. It would be of serious importance to the business community in much of Central Norway if we were to get a strong price increase or even disconnects, as it has been feared. What has caused me to be relatively calm for a few months in this matter is what the oil and energy minister replied to in the interpellation debate on 16 February 2006. It wasn't about introducing, it was about using an own price range in mid-Norway. That's when the Council of State says: «It would not be acceptable to use it as an instrument in such an area.» Has the Council of State changed its point of view in this area?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-26.ana.ud1963e1026	No, the Council of State has not changed its mind on that question. As I have also underlined in my first answer now: using a sky-high price, as someone has said, to solve the situation in Middle Norway is no solution. The previous government did not start the necessary work to get permanent production in place quickly enough. That means we get an intermediate period. No matter what solutions we have for permanent production, we can get an interim period of one and a half years where we want a demanding situation that there will be a need to deal with temporary solutions. The previous government, of which the Right was part, has in St.meld. No 18 for 2003-2004 outlined a run for how it should be handled. There the government said that it should be handled primarily with price ranges and the use of price mechanisms to reduce consumption, and then contracts should be concluded with industry to buy electricity from industry and thus also contribute to the lay-offs in industry. Temporary production, for example: be used to avoid rationalisation. There's a way to deal with this -- if you look at the sum of these factors -- that this government doesn't want to assume. It will have too many consequences in this area if we take into account the previous government's management of these kinds of situations. We'll have to do it another way.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-26.ana.ud1963e1037	I still have some problems seeing the consistency between what the Council of State said on 16 February: ‘It would not be acceptable to use it as an instrument’, i.e. its own price range as an instrument in this area, and what he says today, which is something quite different. But leave it alone. Here's a question that's the most important thing up there: it could be a difficult intermediate period, but it's a little long-term that means the most in this case. If we are to be able to keep prices down, provide secure supply, nutrition and safe light and heat supply to the household, we are to have a new production that needs to be put in place, and then we have to get gas power plants. We know that there are sketches here for a gas power plant on the Tent Goods with full CO2 handling from one day. There is only one sketch for this long time, and it is not a good idea to build it. If this proves not to be realistic, would the Council of State be able to accept and assess a solution without CO2 handling from one day to the next, in order to secure the power situation in Central Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-26.ana.ud1963e1050	Firstly, there is no reason to leave the question of temporary price ranges, because I say nothing else today than what I have always said. It is not enough, and it will in no way be relevant to use only temporary price ranges to ensure the temporary situation that we have in this area until permanent production can be in place. Let me make it clear. If we are to follow the arrangements of the previous government, the temporary price will be the instrument to be used to resolve the situation outlined in St.meld. No 18 for 2003-2004. But it won't be relevant to do it for this government. That is why we are looking at a set of instruments that must be used in combination to ensure the situation in Central Norway. So this government has given a longer concession to Forest. We are in close dialogue with the applicants to look at the possibilities for the implementation of the Forest project as soon as possible. We've done that without setting new cleaning requirements. But this government, unlike the previous one, has said that we want to help deal with CO2. This means that we will help to manage CO2 in the forest. Hopefully, there is a basis for making investment decisions both in the forest and in the forest that will enable us to ensure permanent and long-term production in this area. That work should have been started by the previous government. It wasn't done. That's why we're running out of time. As a result, temporary solutions may be available.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-26.ana.ud1963e1071	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade the following questions: ‘The 2005 Action Plan for Travel presented by the Swedish Cooperative Government highlighted green tourism as a national field of activity. The travel life of Nord-Trom has developed, under the direction of several municipalities, an exciting project on the development of green tourism. Based on special nature qualities and extensive protection areas in the North-Troms, will the Council of State take the initiative in a pilot project for the organisation of green tourism infrastructure in the region, following the pattern of the North-Finland initiative?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-26.ana.ud1963e1080	In the Soria Moria Declaration, we have said that we will develop a national travel strategy based on closeness to nature and Norwegian culture, which ensures the commitment to green travel and the tourism industry as a district industry. I want to focus on contributing to this goal being met. In the trade community, the term geotourism is used to refer to the same thing. In the action plan to which the representative Aspaker refers, the principles behind Geo-tourism are used as a basis for the development of Norway as a travel destination. Norway, at Innovation Norway, is one of the very few countries in the world that have signed the National Geographics Charter for Geotourism. As a follow-up to the Travel Life Action Plan, 1 million was granted. SEK to Innovation Norway earmarked for geotourism. Following this allocation, Innovation Norway has worked to implement the principles of geotourism in its travel life initiative. Among other things, the concept of geotourism is closely respected in Innovation Norway’s recently launched branding strategy. This strategy will be used for branding Norway as a destination abroad, but also in Norway. Work is also under way on a national travel strategy based on the Soria Moria Declaration. We have strengthened the budgets of Innovation Norway's tourism work by 72.5 million. kr. in the budget of the year. It's an increase from last year by 72.5 pst. I held a consultation with key industry actors at the beginning of this month and got important input into the work to be done further. We want to launch an inter-ministerial effort to develop a national travel strategy. Work will take place in close cooperation with the representatives of the tourism industry. The initiative on travel life is a priority task for Innovation Norway. This includes innovation and product development, knowledge and competence, marketing and profiling. Innovation Norway has developed several competence tools for developing destinations in line with geotourism principles. This work will be intensified in the future with more competence measures. With regard to the specific project that the representative Aspaker addresses in his question, I see it as natural that such a project should primarily be dealt with by the local office of Innovation Norway. Innovation Norway, after I have been informed, has not yet received an application for support for the project, but will deal with it quickly when it is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-26.ana.ud1963e1097	I want to thank you for the answer, but I had hoped that the Council of State would express itself far more obligating than what he actually does. But we agree on one thing, that we have a lot of great nature to live in in Norway. In the region we are now talking about, we actually have a total of 3,000 km2 of protected and wilderness areas, if we see the Norwegian and Finnish areas in the context. But then back to what I'm asking about – it's right as it's said here; we don't disagree that we should develop green travel life according to the patterns of the charters that Norway has signed: does the Council of State see that Nord-Troms is a region where it would be very well suited for this, with large national parks, with landscape protection areas – not least because of the fact that Finland, on its side, has gone ahead and shown its way? Does he see that there is a high potential related to nature-based and activity-based travel in green areas?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-26.ana.ud1963e1107	I fully understand that the representative wants an obligatory response, but I would like to stress that there is no application for support for the project yet, and then it is difficult to deal with the question here and now. But I also want to pay tribute in this context to the actors in the project in Troms for the work they have started. Cooperation has been established for the development of infrastructure in the national park, and it is through cooperation that we can achieve the best results. It is also natural to look at Finland, as the actors do, which has a much longer history than Norway in terms of work in this field. We also know that travel is one of the fastest growing industries in the world, and this government has an ambition that Norway will get its share of this growth. This growth should preferably benefit businesses and industries through increased profitability.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-26.ana.ud1963e1114	The region we're talking about now is actually a economically quite weak region. It labors with great freedom, and it should in itself be able to pave the way for the government to see that projects should be channelled there. Cooperation with Finland has been established with a view to developing an Interreg project in this area. However, some infrastructure remains to be put in place in these protection areas, such as the ‘Finnish State Forest’ has helped finance on the Finnish side. So my last question to the Council of State will be: Will he take the initiative in a dialogue with both Innovation Norway and State Forest to look at how to participate and facilitate nature-based travel in this area? Although there is no application, it will be important what kind of signals the Council of State is actually willing to give.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-26.ana.ud1963e1121	There is no government until this one who has said so clearly that it will contribute to the bet in the northern regions. This government has identified the northern regions as its main strategic focus. It also applies to business activities such as travel. We also know that one of our foremost advantages in selling Norway in the context of travel life is nature, cultural landscapes – and that North Norway represents in this context. I have a continuous meeting with Innovation Norway to make sure that they support through the disposals and the work they do during the government's investment in the northern regions. I am very sure that once we get this project on the table, Innovation Norway will help to realize the project as far as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-26.ana.ud1963e1132	The question is as follows: ‘There is a wide debate on the lack of government appropriations for road purposes in Norway. A small part of the national road network maintains the national requirements of Norway itself on its own road network. Appropriations for road construction are treated in our public budgets as expenditure and limited by it, rather than as investment that lasts for many years. What is the plan of the Council of State to bring about a change in the budgetary and planning framework, so that money for road development is treated as long-term investment and not as short-term annual expenditure?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-26.ana.ud1963e1141	The problem raised by the representative of Sortevik is important. Unlike the previous government, with which Arne Sortevik and his party had close cooperation, this government has in its government base, the Soria Moria Declaration, Chapter 3, on economic policy, said among others.\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘The State Budget Committee’s report on increasing the long-termity of government budgeting is used as a basis for a review of a possible distinction between operation and long-term investment in the country’s budgetary policy.’.» The government is currently working on the matter, so I have to come back to the question at a later date.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-26.ana.ud1963e1153	Thank you for a short and, to the most extent, little clarifying answer. The questioner is well aware of what is stated in the Soria Moria statement on project financing. It is actually an answer that falls on the side of the issue, because the treatment of investment as a long-term use of money versus a project finance that can go over a few years is two very different things. A road lasts 50 years. We treat it in budgetary and accounting terms as if we were spending the money the year the road is built. The income for society comes in the next 49 years. We treat this as if the money was eaten and spent. Do we thus facilitate increased appropriations for road construction?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-26.ana.ud1963e1160	I must respectfully say that I do not believe the representative Sortevik has yet read well enough in the Soria Moria statement. What I referred to was not project finance, but that we are basing our State Budget Committee report to look at a possible distinction between operation and long-term investment in the state's budgetary policy. It's probably just that I want to go on with that, which is the question from Sortevik. And I say it wants the government. We're doing a job here. There is no work that can be done overnight, it interferes with the entire government budget. The government, as the representative knows, has a different system than one in the municipalities, where there is an actual distinction between operation and investment. I must ask for respect for the fact that a job must be done here before you can report it back to Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-26.ana.ud1963e1167	Thank you again for your answer. Governments are probably in agreement with what the Progress Party and many others say, namely that investment in assets, by roads, is not consumption, is not several kronor of subsidies, is not social welfare and is not money for operation, but is investment to improve productivity for everyone in society – both for business, for us as individuals, for the public sector and as such for society as a whole. In this way, we can make better use of resources if we get better roads, and if we increase investment on the roads. Can we then hope that a new national transport plan will have a modified framework, so that when measuring investment in infrastructure, it is based on road construction being investment rather than an annual cost?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-26.ana.ud1963e1176	Long before the Progress Party was founded, the Center Party fought to build this country, not least by means of long-term thinking and infrastructure construction. We still do, and so does this government, of which the Center Party is a part, where the parties are agreed to rule on the basis of Soria Moria, with high ambitions for the very area of traffic. Unlike the government that we abolished, with which the Progress Party had a close cooperation and seven to hold on to power for four years, we're going to do a completely different act. When it comes to the next national transport plan, we are just in the process of rolling it. In the answer I gave in the introduction, it is that I cannot answer confirmatory or confirmatory to this question either. It will depend on the work that the Government is now doing to look at a possible distinction between operating and investing in the state's budgetary policy. Once again, I have to get back to that question.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-26.ana.ud1963e1187	I will ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘In Buskerud, some school buses are so crowded that many schoolchildren have to stand in the middle. This makes it the very smallest, the six-year-olds, who are often referred to standing space. This is poorly correlated with zero vision and efforts to improve road safety. What will the Council of State do to prevent young children from being daily exposed to traffic danger?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-26.ana.ud1963e1196	Of course, I share the attention of the representative of Greece to ensure that small children are safe and that the transport of schoolchildren is as safe as possible. The transport of school elephants by bus is currently regulated by three different sets of rules. In conjunction with road traffic legislation, the Transport Act and the Training Act state that, according to certain criteria, school pupils are entitled to shower with a means of transport complying with the applicable safety requirements, carried out by a carrier who satisfies the requirements for the carriage of passengers for consideration. It is the county that is responsible for the school transport, and it is currently covered by the free income of the county municipalities, including transfers from the state through the income system. This means, in practice, that the individual county has great freedom to design the supply. This freedom to adapt supply to local conditions also makes an active use of county municipalities, so that transport is currently carried out as own school guides, but also often as an integral part of the ordinary collective service. Occurrence statistics and some analyses show that schoolchildren are very minorly injured in situations where they are bus passengers, and the damage that occurs is little serious. The serious damage to this group of road users occurs in situations where children are either entering or leaving the bus, or in cases where they go or cycle to and from the school. I am therefore of the clear opinion that in order to approach the zero vision, which is about avoiding the irreparable damage such as death or life-long damage, we must continue to give priority to the improvement of road-hazardous school grounds and the organisation of safe off- and on-board bus services in the vicinity of the schools. This will provide much more security for your money than to use it to make sure that those who already have a safe shuttle service on buses. As the representative of Greece is probably aware, a case concerning the use of standing places in connection with school bus transport was also handled by the Stortinget on 3 June 2004. The majority of those present in the Committee on Transport, all of whom are non-conceived members of the Progress Party, then showed that the very low accident rates for children and young people using school pillows show that today's bus services are mainly carried out in safe forms. Furthermore, the majority emphasises that the transport of school pupils is and will be a municipal responsibility where the state does not regulate in detail unnecessarily, but where local elected persons may have the freedom to determine how the services are designed. The majority did not want to take this freedom from the local government, but considered it undesirable that the county councils provide safe school transport and enough seats even in cases where there are no schools of their own. Based on what I have presented here, and the fact that I can't see that there have been any significant changes since the Stortinget's decision of 3 June 2004, I don't want any further demands that restrict the freedom of the local government to choose the solutions that best fit around our country. After hearing the question from the representative of Helleland’s party trap Holmberg to the municipal and regional minister earlier today, I may have believed that even the Right – or in the case of some people in the Right – saw the value of such a local freedom of action.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-26.ana.ud1963e1211	I'm upset to hear the Minister of Transport talk so badly about municipal freedom – when it comes to the road safety of six-year-olds! I didn't think I should hear it from this Minister of Transport. I agree that the most important thing is to secure the school roads, but now there have been a number of reports in the Buskerud newspapers and NRK Buskerud about small kids being thrown into bolts in the school bus. A bus driver who owns a separate bus company says that there are six-year-olds who do not even reach the handle in the aisle. And who actually has to stand? Well, of course, it's the smallest, the biggest ones make room. I had not thought I would hear this from the Minister for Transport. I have read the answer given in 2004, and I agree with what it says, that this is the county authority's responsibility. I want county and municipal freedom, but we have something called road safety in this country, and it's actually the responsibility of the state. I had therefore hoped for a more offensive response from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-26.ana.ud1963e1218	The representative would like to talk to the big heights, but this situation has not occurred in half a year. The size has treated this, as I pointed out. The Storting gave a very clear signal if someone thought they should be responsible for this. The kind of lookup that one has now had in Buskerud, we have also had in my home country and in other counties for several years. But Stortinget was well aware of the problems when Stortinget said what Stortinget said in connection with a proposal from the Progress Party. I have read carefully what Stortinget then said. I don't see anything that has changed with the situation we now have. On the contrary, the municipalities have now gained greater freedom of action, for this government has allowed SEK 5.7 billion to the county councils. So there's greater freedom of action now to offer a better deal. It's the county councils' responsibility that they have to take. I'd like to clarify it to the county councils together with the municipal and regional ministers, but I'm not going to go into any regulation beyond that at the time.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-26.ana.ud1963e1223	I am at least pleased with the last thing that was said, that the minister would send a request to the county councils to take this seriously. I know that some states have done so, and they've managed to find that where there are separate school routes, it's going on in safe forms. But what is the challenge here is that we, as big-scale politicians and the Minister as ministers, adopt a number of road safety rules. I know that, for example. has not been one fatal accident involving young children in the car in recent years due to child seats/car safety. In the case of coaches, we know that this is where seat belts are now required. When the local government in Sigdal, otherwise a central party-driven municipality, has now decided to ask for more support for road safety for the six-year-olds on the highways, and when the children in Upper Eiker are thrown into the bolts at the stop, I find it strange that the minister does not see it more seriously. We agree on municipal autonomy, but the safety of children should go ahead.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-26.ana.ud1963e1230	For those of us who don't have just one more hold, but who actually believe in municipal self-government, we're sure that when this matter has come on the agenda the way it has, one will take it at the level that is responsible. That's exactly what's in local self-government. Storing and government should not jump for the first media lookups that come up with different issues, but have confidence that those who are responsible will take care of it and clean it up. When it comes to bus securing, I am now working on a matter where we will also look at how we can ensure the smaller children not only on buses, but actually also on regular buses, in a better way. I'm going to come up with something about it pretty soon. It's not that we're not busy with this. This government has traffic safety, as it were, essentially. There are all other issues in the field of transport — but we will work with them in cooperation and not in over-control of the level, which in this case is the county council, which is responsible for ensuring the school students. And I'm sure that will happen.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-26.ana.ud1963e1279	These questions have been postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-26.ana.ud1963e1294	This question falls because the queryer is not present.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-26.ana.ud1963e1308	This question goes out, as the Council of State has gone away.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-26.ana.ud1963e1315	This question, from the representative Anders Anundsen of the Minister of Knowledge, will be answered by the Minister of Labour and Inclusion on behalf of the Minister of Knowledge.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-26.ana.ud1963e1318	I am delighted to present the following questions to the Council of State: ‘In a study conducted by the NRK, three out of four principals have replied that they have not received more money for the operation of the school, despite the government’s claim that they have invested in the school through their increase in the funds allocated to the municipalities of 5.7 billion. kr in year. The Progress Party proposed equal appropriations for municipalities in 2006 but earmarked funds for the main welfare tasks, including school. Does the Council of State see that the government's alleged investment is flawed and will the Council of State consider designation for school in 2007?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-26.ana.ud1963e1327	The government has increased the free revenues of the municipal sector by DKK 5.7 billion in 2006. If the actual distribution of expenditure in 2005 is taken into account, about 3/4 of the growth in free income in 2006 will be applied to basic welfare services such as school, kindergartens, health and care for the elderly. I have to make sure that I do not know in detail the NRK study that has been done in relation to the principals. The way questions are asked could be decisive for the answers you have received. Previous studies show that the municipality will spend more money in school. The 2006 National Budget Survey of the Municipalities shows that nine out of ten municipalities will maintain or strengthen school provision. NRK's survey earlier this year, that is, in front of the one that the questioner is now referring to, shows that half of the municipalities will be adding to the school budget. Expenditure needs vary between municipalities; in some places there is a need to strengthen care for the elderly, while in others it is the school that needs to be strengthened. It is the local people elected, the local government, that knows best the needs of its municipality, and that on that basis can make reasonable priorities of the municipality's financial resources. The government has great confidence in the priorities of the local populace, and therefore has no plans to earmark funds for school in the next year’s budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-26.ana.ud1963e1338	I thank you for the answer, but I am concerned that the Council of State does not see any reason to look into this. Prior to Easter, the Central Statistical Office provided an analysis showing that increased transfers to the local government sector are primarily for cultural, infrastructure and municipal administration purposes. In addition, when we receive reports from three out of four principals saying that they do not notice the promised commitment to school on which the government in the campaign has been quite clear, is it not time for the government to assess whether other economic instruments are needed to fulfill the promises? Or will the Council of State continue to take a passive view that the promises made by the government parties in the election campaign must be fulfilled by the local government – despite the fact that it does not happen?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-26.ana.ud1963e1345	The starting point here is that the questioner and I don't agree on the reality description. It is completely impossible to draw the conclusions that the questioner now draws, that the increased free income of the local government sector does not give rise to any more appropriations for school. The NRK has made a telephone call to some principals. In addition, there is a very thorough study carried out by KS vis-à-vis municipalities. These cracks in at least two broad directions: KS’s own study shows that there is clearly more to the schools. We're now in a situation where we've only gotten four months into the new year, and having the sloping starting point that the questioner has when is impossible. And as I said in my main response, we believe that it is those who live in the different municipalities that are best suited to assess where the money is most needed. There we disagree with the Advancement Party. But there's no news, and that's how I think it'll go on.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-26.ana.ud1963e1352	It is true that the Government disagrees with the Advance Party. The progress party strengthened the school by 800 million. kr in its alternative budget in relation to the free resources provided by the Government. It's true that we're only four months out in a new year. However, the budgets for the municipal sector were adopted in December, which must indicate that we have a fairly good overview of the impact of the school initiative that the Government has claimed to have. Does the Council agree that if it turns out that there is no school effort, other instruments will be assessed at the time of the examination of the budget for the autumn, or will it stop saying that the government is paying at school and that it is up to the municipalities to choose whether to bet at school?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-26.ana.ud1963e1359	First of all, I understand that the Progress Party is concerned about the situation in Norwegian school. The problem for the Progress Party is that they have systematically given a majority of the appropriations that Norwegian municipalities have had for the last four years, and are therefore responsible for the fact that the situation is as it is. And that it is very demanding for the Government to correct the situation the Progress Party has brought Norwegian schools into, I agree. We also feel very confident that the increased appropriations that the new government has now secured for its municipalities will lead to a better school. There is a need, because for four years the Progress Party has systematically given a majority to a different policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-26.ana.ud1963e1377	This question has been postponed to the next question hour.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-26.ana.ud1963e1384	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Employment and Inclusion the following questions: ‘It is granted a total of 3,6 billion. kr to special labour market measures in 2006. This is a key element of labour-oriented action against poverty, and therefore the funds need to be used in line with the objective. Special labour market measures are now offered at a lower price than expected, and it is therefore possible to have more than 26 300 action places for the amount allocated, cf. St. pp. No 1 for 2005-2006. Nevertheless, Aetat refuses to purchase more than that number of places. Can the Council of State ensure that the full allocation will be used as foreseen?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-26.ana.ud1963e1393	The need for labour market measures for disabled persons is assessed, inter alia: from inflows and the number of job-impaired jobseekers registered in Aetat. Vocational rehabilitation, including labour market measures for people with disabilities, has been an important instrument to stimulate increased professional participation by shifting public resource efforts towards follow-up and activating arrangements to prevent long and passive social benefits that often end up with permanent exclusion from the labour market through unearthed retirement. Furthermore, vocational rehabilitation is a central element of the Government’s work to combat poverty. As the questioner says, for 2006, funds corresponding to an action level of 26 300 places have been allocated on average under labour market measures for disabled persons. Aetat has been given a great deal of freedom to assess which measures are appropriate and necessary for individuals to get into regular work. On the basis of an individual needs assessment, the measures in question may, in some cases, be costly, while in others less costly measures are considered as more relevant. The objective of the action is to use the most appropriate measures within the framework and guidelines resulting from the Ministry’s budget proposal and its treatment by the Storting. The Government will re-assess the need for labour market measures for people with disabilities in the context of the revised national budget for 2006, inter alia. in the light of the implementation so far this year and the number of persons with a disability registered in Aetat.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-26.ana.ud1963e1402	I thank the Council of State for the answer. He was aware that there was a great influx. I can tell you that today there are 27,900 people in line to get a seat in a rehab company, and this queue is slightly increasing. Among these people, there are many drug problems, with mental distress — many have disabilities of varying degrees, and many have been out of work for a long time. They need, for that reason, help to get back and get into activity. But they stand up for'morran', they're motivated for activity. The election vows of the government parties gave these people reason to believe that they would be given higher priority by a red-green majority government. Does the Government consider that a reduction in the appropriations for special labour market measures is compatible with the Government's commitment to prioritize the weakest and the poorest first?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-26.ana.ud1963e1409	What is the starting point for this budget area is that the red-green government has the same level of funding – as far as I remember – as it had the previous government. The starting point for this allocation is that the money should be spent as efficiently as possible, i.e. in the sense that the measures should be good. But Aetat has great freedom to sew the measures together in such a way that they are individually adapted to individual needs. We're aware there's a queue here. Fortunately, that queue has become smaller than it has been. So the number of people in line has gone down a little bit. But the starting point is that Aetat has a great freedom to sew the measures together.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-26.ana.ud1963e1416	I thank you again for the answer. However, I am constantly told that people who do what the Council of State is doing stand up for ‘morran’ and go to an activity, must break in the middle of an action chain. Last night I received a message from my own county, from Lillesand Products, that there will be a significant reduction in the number of seats in the AMB and in the APS in the second half of the year. I get the same message from Oslo and Sogn and Fjordane. This is about the quality of life of these people, who are the weakest and those who need the most. I believe it is wise – and we agree on this – to focus onreduction measures. But based on the quality of life of individual and socio-economic considerations, how will the Council of State explain that the Government does not want to use the amount allocated to special labour market measures to maximize the number of places?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-26.ana.ud1963e1423	I believe that the starting point for the order to Aetat is that they should get the most out of the amount that they have given. Of course, it'll be the government's order for Aetat in this context. As I said in my previous reply, the level of appropriations we now have is, in line with the Christian People's Party itself, proposed as a level of appropriations for this year. In this way, the new government and the previous government, this Council of State and the previous Council of State, which the Christian People's Party should know well, have been fully in agreement. But, as I said, we are going to have a review of this issue in the revised national budget, which will come to the Storting in a very short time.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-26.ana.ud1963e1434	I want to ask the Minister of Culture and the Church the following questions: ‘Norwegian Tipping turnover has been significantly reduced in the last year, while shops are still in place, etc. who wish to become commissioners, such as: Roll trade in Hedmark. Would Norwegian Tipping consider increasing the number of commissioners and thus also help to ensure that the local shops are more likely to survive, as well as that more people will be able to play?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-26.ana.ud1963e1443	I thank you for the question. The Norwegian Typing commissioners have an important task as intermediaries of games offered under the direction of Norwegian Typing. Norsk Tipping is, as you know, a state-owned gaming company where the Ministry of Culture and the Church is responsible for the overall management of the company and the development of the rules of the game offered by Norsk Typing AS. Contracts for setting up commissioning networks are part of the Norwegian Tipping business, which is managed by the company itself. The establishment of new commissioners is therefore based on commercial criteria. Norwegian Tipping AS makes an overall assessment of, among other things, Goods turnover, number of customers, trading patterns, expected turnover and distance to the nearest commissioner – that is what is being taken into account. ==References== 950 by Norsk Typings 3,955 commissioners are so-called local shops/outside shops. These stores represent 24 pst, i.e. one fourth, of the Commission mass, but they have a sales share of approximately. 10 pst. Of the 950 edge shops, approx. 300 directly linked to the so-called ‘MERKUR’ programme, which is a state-supported programme of competence development in the edge shops. This programme establishes Commission agreements which do not focus on commercial reasons. I would like to stress that Norwegian Tipping AS is busy providing good service to its players, including in District Norway. Norwegian Typing thus takes district considerations within the framework of which the consideration of sound business operations allows. The company has assessed applications for commissionership from Velta Handel on a number of occasions in recent years. The applications have been evaluated in the light of the above criteria for setting up Commissioners and have been rejected. Velta Handel has also been evaluated through the MERKUR programme, but with the same results.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-26.ana.ud1963e1456	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which was informative and good, but of course it lacks something, and that's more yes-mentality. It's clear that you have to have the business here, but at the same time there's a little responsibility for us as politicians and maybe also as government bodies when you think about some district policy at all. Norwegian Typing goes with a good profit, and you divide out of the surplus for many cultural purposes, sports purposes, etc. – we all know this – but maybe there should also be a small district profile in this. Often this is about older people without a car, without a good collective offer, who lack an offer to play in their community. The local store also loses a lot of customers, because when you are going to travel and tip and there is no tap option in the nearby store, you do not act there either. There is a loss-loss situation for everyone when there are so many shops that want to be commissioners, but unfortunately they are not allowed to be so, even if you do not get into the MERKUR programme.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-26.ana.ud1963e1463	I have considerable sympathy for the thinking behind the question of the representative, Mr. Bredvold. It's like having good services close to where you live is a basic value to people. That's why our government has a very clear goal of having an offensive district policy, which ensures it. As far as Norwegian Typing is concerned, one of the premises in the representative’s question is that Norwegian Typing’s turnover has been significantly reduced in recent years. Now there is a truth with modifications, but at least it has not grown – it has been quite silent. One of the reasons is that other types of games, on the Internet, in the automation industry, etc., are now growing very much. I think the best thing we can do to ensure good sales in Norwegian Typing, and therefore many commissioners in the districts, is to limit the other games. I hope that at least there can be a contribution that the representative of Bredvold can help to support just building up under the district commissioners of Norsk Typing.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-26.ana.ud1963e1470	I thank the Council of State for the answer. Both the government council and I were at the annual meeting of Norwegian Tipping at Hamar a while ago. A few days earlier, Hedmark had a visit from Siv Jensen, the Progress Party – we also chose to visit Norsk Tipping that time, so we spend a lot of time doing this. I mean it's a win-win situation for everyone if we have more commissioners, even though some commissioners may not be going with as much profit as the big ones. This is a win-win situation for the players, by giving more people the opportunity to play and maybe not go online and use the option, but use their local store. I think it's a win-win situation for commissioners -- I think it's for Norwegian Typing, and not least for those who're going to get a share in the profits. I hope that the Council of State, together with me and others who want a strong district policy, will also look at the small commissioners, so that they can have a chance to participate in this. I think this will help to make the districts survive, because there is also an opportunity to play on something as innocent as Norwegian Typing's game.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-26.ana.ud1963e1479	I'm for all the things that can make it viable in the districts. That's why we have an active district policy, and Norsk Typing is busy with its customers in the districts. But Norwegian Tipping does not live in a vacuum, they live under any framework conditions. I believe that the following framework conditions are needed for Norsk Tipping to have as many commissioners as possible in the districts: First of all, there must be many people living in the districts. This means that there must be jobs in the districts. This is achieved, among other things, by: with an active agricultural policy and a policy for primary industries. There's the government, I think, a very offensive policy, compared to the questioner's party at least. Secondly, we have to limit the other games, the ones that are on the Internet, the ones that don't give profit for charity purposes, and that are now taking turnover away from Norwegian Typing. For the more people play in Norwegian Tipping, the more profitable it is to have commissioners in the districts. It is these framework conditions that really determine how many people in the districts who get Norwegian Typing's offer in their local store. If you think you can compensate for dramatic changes in the framework conditions, with negative signs for the districts, for example. subsidizes commissioners or obliges Norwegian Typing to have them in small shops without people around, I think you're wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-26.ana.ud1963e1494	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘The media has recently raised several issues in which psychiatric patients commit serious acts of violence with death as their ultimate consequence. The undersigned looks with scepticism at today's practice, where patients are discharged after a very short period of time. Will the Council of State now look at current forms of treatment and security measures for vulnerable groups with a view to establishing better practices and interaction within the psychiatric health system, so that professionals and society as a whole can feel safe?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-26.ana.ud1963e1503	Events referred to here are very tragic. For the sake of people who are suffering from mental illness and for the sake of treatment, I also feel the need to remember that there is only a very small proportion of criminal acts associated with mental illness and mental health protection. Only a small proportion of those with a psychiatric diagnosis are considered to have a serious disorder. Of a total of about 21,000 convicted crimes in 2000, only 18 were committed by persons judged to be unreliable. Out of 53 people sentenced to death, six persons were considered unpredictable following a legal psychiatric assessment. This is according to numbers from the forensic commission. I also think that as politicians we have a responsibility not to create stigmatizing attitudes towards a group of people. This leads people with, in this case, mental disorders can get an even more negative self-image. We should all contribute to information that most psychiatric patients are not dangerous. The health service is responsible for ensuring that people with mental illness receive the services they need. The question invites you to comment on the assessment of danger, and to deal specifically with dangerous and unstable people, which I will now do – because this is something we also take very seriously. If there is a suspicion that persons with serious mental illness represent a hazard to themselves or others, mental health protection has a responsibility to treat their suffering and also to assess the risk to other people. Routines and cooperation between the police and the health services and between the hospitals and the municipal auxiliaries have not been good enough in many places. I think that's quite obvious. The Directorate of Police and the Directorate of Social Affairs and Health have now established a permanent cooperation forum where they meet every quarter, and they are in the process of concluding a joint circular which provides guidance for cooperation between health services and the police. I believe that this is essential in order to prevent dangerous actions and also to be able to take care of those who are ill. I can also inform the representative Giltun that we now have a work going on, a cooperation between the Ministry of Health and Welfare and the Ministry of Justice, to look at offers that are better than what we have today, and that we can give to people who fall a little between two chairs, and who need slightly different offers than what we can offer today. The vast majority of people with severe mental health disorders live daily in their homes in the municipalities. Large resources are used both in municipalities and at specialist health services, while emphasis is placed on empowerment and research. That's absolutely necessary. Regional health establishments have been asked to establish contact with relevant responsible bodies at regional level. I have been informed that several health companies and municipalities/urban areas have concluded cooperation agreements concerning the treatment of patients in their area of exposure. Furthermore, in a 2004 circular on printing practices, measures are listed to ensure comprehensive treatment for patients. It is also vital that individual patient plans are developed to ensure interaction on services for the patient – that people are not just printed out without knowing that they are being followed up, if necessary. I believe that systematic efforts and good cooperation practices between agencies are very important. We see, for example: in Oslo, a permanent established cooperation between police and psychiatry, and a cooperation between Health North and the state lawyers in the Nordic countries and in Troms and Finnmark. Self-training of personnel in all asylum recipients has now also been carried out in order to improve competence in relation to risk assessments. Finally, I would like to stress that assessing a patient's danger to himself or others, unfortunately, according to professionals, is not an exact science. Competence settings in Norway and in other countries are constantly testing the tools available to make assessments even safer. Competence centres for security, prison and judicial psychiatry provide regular training for psychologists and psychiatrists – acute psychiatry and security psychiatry – in order to assess the risk of dangerous behaviour and how to avoid aggressive outbreaks. The medical association is now also working with its own supervisor in relation to the treatment of dangerous patients. I believe it is important that professionals who are in contact with potentially dangerous patients should be safe. I will therefore contribute to the evaluation of existing information and guidance material for health professionals and ensure that it is properly implemented at all stages. In particular, it has proved difficult to predict the danger of patients who have not previously reacted to violent behaviour, as we have seen examples of recent times. According to professionals, suffering can occur acutely or develop over a very short period of time. That means that even with careful investigation, the psychiatry doesn't do 100 pst. the safety of identifying all patients who may represent a risk to others. This is therefore a central element in the evaluation of this group of patients that we have to keep high all the time. In the 2004 circular on printing practices, the procedures for outsourcing from the psychiatry are more precise, including: by assessing the need to carry out formal hazard assessments for each individual. In the 2006 health business order document, I have stressed that the provision of treatment to people with mental illness should be stepped up, and all regional health businesses should review, during the first decade of this year, the provision of emergency services to adults to ensure that availability and quality are maintained. I mean to have told the health care companies about that, and that the number of bed places needs to be assessed and adjusted, because we see that there is a group of people who are not well cared for in the system we have today, and who probably need more treatment than what we do per. Today is able to give.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-26.ana.ud1963e1529	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which contained a lot of signals that she considers it important to work on these matters. There is an increase in such cases, and there have been very serious events once something has happened. It'll be completely wrong to calculate an average of all criminal acts. These are tragic events that often hit either close persons in a family or completely random on the streets, so it's important that they follow up. So to this with risk assessment. We know we have too bad measurement indicators. In the case of women, and not least ethnic minority groups, according to a Swedish study, there is no risk assessment of those groups. Here you might want to bet on more research. I hope the Council of State will support that. This rapid printing is a major problem, and also with communication between local authorities, doctors and other agencies to follow the patient further. It is also a danger if a patient himself is allowed to choose whether to have a follow-up offer. There should, of course, be a requirement for risk assessment and for the patient to comply with the recommendations. I hope that the Council of State will back it up.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-26.ana.ud1963e1538	I can just repeat that some of the events we've seen in recent times are obviously very tragic. You have to always strive to do everything in your power to try to avoid such events. I have confidence in, among other things: the work of the State Health Directorate and the Police Directorate. They come out with a circular in a very few days, simply with guidelines on how this cooperation is going to be done. In this context, there is a need to have a framework for risk assessment, which the representative is involved in, and a framework for monitoring each individual if necessary, in the municipality or in another treatment provision. I think that is quite obvious. I also believe that interaction, which the representative is concerned about, is unfortunately not always enough today. So professionals – I repeat it – say that it is not always easy to predict what can happen, but at least you have to make sure that as far as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-26.ana.ud1963e1545	I just want to end by saying that I'm satisfied with the answer so far. I hope that the Council of State will follow up this development, because it is in development that we see whether we succeed in the actions that are being undertaken. It is said that when such serious events occur, you should never take up a case when an event happens. It's going to be very difficult as evolution has been. These events have occurred so frequently that it becomes difficult to avoid linking them to something in particular. I have chosen not to mention any events, but there are so many serious things that have happened, that this I expect the Council of State to follow up now.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-26.ana.ud1963e1550	I can only confirm that this is also I, on behalf of the Government, very concerned. Obviously, we're looking at what's happening and what's happened, with the greatest seriousness, and we're going to follow up as best we can.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-26.ana.ud1963e1555	So we're done with question 25 and we should now have taken up question 8.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-26.ana.ud1963e1569	In agreement with the questioner, Jon Lilletun, and the Minister for Development, the President proposes that this issue be postponed to the next Question Time. - It's a note.
