ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-30.ana.ud1900e54	Honourable co-representatives! The former representative of the Magnificent Dagfinn Hearts suddenly disappeared on February 28th – only 62 years old. Dagfinn The Hearts was born on 13 August 1943 in Florø. After commercial school and the Infantry Command School, he served a period as a sergeant and ensign at the Brigade in North Norway. After the period in the defense, Dagfinn had several office positions of the Hearts before he began a banking career in 1969, which led him to the position of bank manager of the Norwegian Credit Bank in the home town of Florø in 1986. He engaged early in political work, and as early as 1958 became president of the local Young Right Association. From 1965 to 1968 he was chairman of Sogn and Fjordane Young Right and a member of the National Government of Young Right. Later, jobs were in both Hordaland and Sogn and Fjordane Right, but there is hardly any exaggeration to say that the Dagfinn Hearts were going to concentrate most of their energy on municipal policy tasks. He began his municipal political career as a member of the Askøy Municipal Government in 1971-1972, but the main arena became the municipality of Flora, where he became a member of the Presidency in 1975. He was elected rapporteur in 1979 and, with an interruption in 1986-1987, came to hold this office until 1989. In the years 1990–92, he was a member of the National Assembly of the Right Central Government. Dagfinn The hearts were chosen for Stortinget in the fall of 1989. He was nominated first for the Right in Sogn and Fjordane also in the 1993 elections, but then the Right could not retain the mandate. At Stortinget, Dagfinn was the first member of the Energy and Industry Committee of the Hearts. After the government change in November 1990, he was a member of the Defence Committee. Both committees covered matters that were close to his heart. It is not by chance that his rapporteur's time was strongly influenced by his commitment to give Flora a real share in the oil adventure – which also resulted in Flora getting its oil base. For the Dagfinn Hearts, years after he was at Stortinget, he became extremely active. He first established himself as a self-employed person, but in 1996 he was employed as a business manager in the municipality of Flora. He also continued his local political engagement as head of the Flora Right until 1996 and as a member of the Flora Municipal Government from 1995 to 1997. From 1999 to 2003, he was also a member of the county council. In 1994 he was elected a member of the Ombudsman’s Department of Defence and the Ombudsman’s Board of Civil Service Officers. In 2002, he was elected Ombudsman and head of both subjects. Dagfinn The Hearts had a form and a working style that made him almost tailor-made to the task of the Ombudsman. Both his background in education and his years in the defense committee made him very well equipped for work, and he was passionately concerned with guardians and commanding both service and well-being. In addition to the many public and party political positions, Dagfinn’s Hearts carried out numerous other tasks in many fields — not least in the field of sport and in the field of local and regional economic development and economic activity. It is not possible to go into them all, but together all of this shows that Dagfinn's Hearts had a broad social exposure with which only the few can stand up. In the local press in Sogn and Fjordane there are many characteristics given by Dagfinn Hearts. They all have in common that they underline his good mood and great generosity. Otherwise, the «entrepreneurial rapporteur», «driver», «competent problem solver» and «good adviser» are descriptions that go back. These are descriptions that all who were delighted to cooperate with Dagfinn’s Hearts on Stortinget and the Ombudsman’s subjects can join without reservations. We remember Dagfinn's hearts for his efforts on the Storting and for his work as the Storting's ombudsman for the Defense and for civil servants, and shines peace upon his memory. The representatives heard the President's commemorative speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-30.ana.ud1900e77	Three permit applications are available: from the Right-wing Group on the leave of the representative Jan Petersen from 30 March to 4 April to attend the Congress of the European People's Party in Rome and the meeting of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly in Oman. from the representative Trond Helleland on maternity leave from 30 March to 7 April. From 3 April to 2 May, from the Group of the Progressive Party on maternity leave of the representative Robert Eriksson. [[EPPs]] On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The applications shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For Akershus County: Cathrin BretzegFor Buskerud County: Beate Heieren HundhammerFor Nord-Trøndelag County: Change Skjervø
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-30.ana.ud1900e116	Cathrin Bretzeg is proposed to be elected to Lagtinget for the time she meets for Jan Petersen. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Cathrin Bretzeg and Beate Heieren Dog Hammer are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-30.ana.ud1900e123	The President will propose the election of two presidents for the Storting meeting today – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Solvency Horne and Kenneth Svendsen. – Other proposals are not available, and Solvency Horne and Kenneth Svendsen are considered unanimously elected presidents of the Stortinget meeting today. The representative Hans Olav Syversen will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-30.ana.ud1900e130	On behalf of the representative May-Helen Molvær Grimstad and myself, I am delighted to make a proposal to remove the document fee when the cohabitants with the common children sell housing to each other.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-30.ana.ud1900e135	The representative of Olemic Thommes will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-30.ana.ud1900e139	On behalf of the representatives of Erna Solberg, André Oktay Dahl and myself, I would like to make a proposal that the Government investigates and comes back with general and general legislation regarding discrimination regardless of the basis.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-30.ana.ud1900e144	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-30.ana.ud1900e162	The aim of this interpellation is to have a debate on agricultural policy here in Stortinget, so that the Stortinget can get more information about what is the agricultural policy of the current government. In this way, it will also be interesting to know whether the new government has an agricultural policy that differs from that of the previous government. As far as last autumn's elections are concerned, there has been a reasonable silence about what is going to be the development of agriculture in the coming years. Uncertainty has also been created about the current agricultural policy and what the framework conditions lie ahead of agriculture. In fact, there has been a great deal of focus on the ongoing WTO negotiations. This has been an ongoing process in which the current government has not taken the initiative itself, but has been dependent on following international developments. So far, the government has not promoted any issues of agricultural policy for Stortinget, and I am not aware of any significant issues in the near future. The question of whether the Government has any vision of agricultural policy at all, and whether agricultural policy should continue as it is today, a policy that continues to lead to fewer farmers and depopulated farms. If you take a look at what the Soria Moria Declaration says about Norwegian agricultural policy, it initially has some phrases that everyone can agree with. The formulations such as ‘farming plays an important role in housing and employment in large parts of the country’, and ‘farming in Norway has several functions: producing safe food and ensuring food supply and, at the same time, contributing to employment and housing across the country’ are formulations that most people in both this room and the population can support. At the same time, it is discouraging to see further action to contribute to this. It is the old schemes that have contributed both to a decline in the number of people employed in agriculture and to an increase in the speed of decommissioning use, that is to say, completely contrary to the intentions of the Soria Moria Declaration. Measures such as the continuation of the market organisation, the maintenance of the channelling policy, a clearer rural profile for operational grant schemes, the maintenance of strong import protection are well-known and tested agricultural policies which have not produced any particularly good results. The current WTO negotiations will be important for Norwegian business, including agriculture. However, in the Norwegian public debate, if an agreement is adopted, as many believe, there has been a too one-sided focus on possible negative aspects of agriculture. Focusing on what a more open world trade can lead to for the entire Norwegian industry, and in particular the competitive part of it, has been largely absent from the public debate. Nor has it been focused on whether freer world trade can bring any benefits to Norwegian agriculture and whether Norwegian agriculture has opportunities in export markets. Are there crunched consumers out there on the world market who are willing to pay a good price for Norwegian lamb that has a good quality, or is it possible to export quality cheese from Norway? I believe that the answer to this is yes. But when you go into international negotiations with a defensive starting point, it's likely to be the result. The alternative is to think offensively and look at the possibilities that you can also have. I have the impression that all the political parties and the Norwegian Government agree that a new WTO agreement will bring challenges to Norwegian agriculture, and that the customs protection we have today will gradually be reduced. Even with the offer made by the Norwegian Group in the WTO negotiations, this will have a major impact on future Norwegian agricultural policy. I believe that the Norwegian Government shows a defensive attitude in the development of Norwegian agriculture, when it does not want to adapt to international developments, and when it does not implement measures that focus on the development of agriculture under new framework conditions. When the strategy is that a new agricultural policy will not be introduced until the outcome of a WTO agreement is clear, then one puts oneself on the sidelines and creates uncertainty and little confidence in the future among the farmers. There has been a reasonable cross-political consensus on the Norwegian agricultural policy in the post-war period, with the exception of the Progress Party, which has pursued a much more offensive policy that focuses more on the potential of agriculture and not only on possible constraints. What, then, has this policy from the majority led to? The objective of the majority agricultural policy shall be to create viable districts, create jobs throughout the country and secure housing. Then I do not understand that we are satisfied with the agricultural policy that has been in place over the last decade. Numbers are ready: There are about two-thirds fewer farms today than 30 years ago, and it is being laid down approximately. 3000 holdings per year. The number of active livestock farms is moving downwards at constant speeds. In Norwegian agriculture itself, milk production, the number of use is reduced at high speed. Twenty-five pst. have been lost for the last five years, but the level of use of the remaining ones is increasing little. Studies show that most farmers are not satisfied with the income they receive from agriculture. Only 39 pst. has a farm as the only gainful activity. Among milk producers, 40 pst. work outside, and a whole of 79 pst. this is the case for cereal farmers.46 000 agricultural properties are uninhabited and this amounts to 25 pst. of all rural agricultural properties in the country.34 000 housing units are empty on agricultural properties, mainly in the districts of the country. This review shows that the objectives of agricultural policy have not been met and that more of the same policy is not to be recommended. It is paradoxical that, while agriculture is the country’s highest subsidised industry, with about one third of the total. 12 billion DKK in transfers over the state budget annually, and having a customs protection calculated at less than 10 billion DKK per year, the industry actors and business organisations are very little satisfied with the income situation. Here's something that's not right, because the situation should have been completely different. Agriculture is also the country’s most permeable industry, which places great restrictions on farmers’ nutrition: strict control of who can be established in the agricultural public control of prices when the agricultural property is placed on the market, strictly protecting against the de-allocation of the property through soil and occupational concessions limits on how much production can be restricted to cooperation between farmers, e.g. through co-operation price regulation through the market regulation mechanisms, transfer policies that distinguish strongly between where the country operates; These are some of the main features of today's agricultural policy, which have proved to be flawed. If you want a policy to contribute to optimism and innovation, you have to change agricultural policy completely. Release the farmer has been a starting point for the agricultural policy of the Progress Party. We regard the farmer as a self-employed person and not as a public client who needs well-meaning politicians and bureaucrats to take care of himself. We have no understanding that we want to regulate agriculture in the way that we are doing now. We should have confidence in the farmer. We should have confidence that the farmer himself is able to care for his property and his income. We should have confidence that the individual farmer is on his own, without being supported by the public. Today's agricultural policy is based on some kind of public mistrust towards the farmer. I have explained here why we need a new agricultural policy, and will challenge the Council of State to think in the future and to contribute to innovation in agricultural policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-30.ana.ud1900e246	I fundamentally disagree with Kielland Asmyhr's approach to this issue. I also think it is remarkable that the representative of Kielland Asmyhr criticises a development that the Progress Party itself wants to strengthen. So I would say that there might be a need for a deepening also in relation to the reasoning that was put forward here right now. The government is meeting the challenges created by WTO negotiations in an offensive way. We are constantly working to achieve a negotiated result that ensures the basis for active agriculture throughout the country. When there is any negotiated outcome, we need to adapt the policy and change the instruments so that we can continue to achieve the objectives of agricultural policy. The size is previously informed of the Norwegian positions in the WTO negotiations. I should therefore not dwell on them for a very long time, but just remind them that it is on market access, i.e. on the issue of cutting customs duties, and the delimitation of sensitive agricultural products and the treatment of them that the negotiations are most demanding. At the same time, it is most important in this area to achieve a good negotiating result for Norway. Satisfactory import protection is essential to enable active agriculture throughout the country to continue in the future. The negotiations in Geneva are currently in an intensive phase. At the Hong Kong ministerial meeting before Christmas, it was agreed that by 30 April the so-called agricultural modalities would be in place, i.e. concrete obligations relating to customs reductions, the use of national agricultural aid and export aid. By the end of July, all countries shall provide lists of offers of how they will adapt to their specific commitments. This is a tight schedule. A wide range of important issues remain to be clarified, not only for agriculture but also in other areas of negotiation. With a WTO agreement in place, there will be changes in the use of agricultural policy instruments. The customs duties will be reduced. There will be new requirements for the use of national agricultural aid compared to today. For Norway, this will mean that we will be able to continue or, if we want, increase budget support for agriculture – I will repeat it – but we need to design the instruments differently than before. In general, the adaptation of Norwegian agricultural policy to a new WTO agreement must be considered when an agreement is in place. It is only then that we can make the necessary overall assessment of how to adapt both customs protection and agricultural aid so that we can achieve our objectives for agricultural policy, which is therefore an active agriculture throughout the country. The government aims to maintain the pattern of residence throughout the country. Agriculture is a carrier of business in many districts. Agricultural policy must be actively used to ensure the central role of agriculture in rural policy in the future. Agriculture has a contract with society and will provide safe food, living settlements and cultural landscapes. It gives agriculture legitimacy and support in the population, because it contributes to a Norway as we want to have it. We need to develop agriculture in a way that ensures this legitimacy for Norwegian food production in the future. When the representative Kielland Asmyhr talks about and wants a robust agriculture, and calls for a focus on conversion and innovation, there is certainly reason to ask a few questions. First of all, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the rate of conversion in agriculture has been and is very high, so making agricultural conversion as something we must start with soon, as the representative of Kielland Asmyhr says, is completely wrong. Farms are being transformed and re-thinked every day. Creative farmers constantly look for ways to improve and change farm operation. Hardly any industry in Norway has changed more than agriculture has done for a long time. Of course, it is essential for agriculture that the entire food value chain is cost-effective. It is essential to maintain domestic volumes. Volume provides the basis for the use of agricultural land that is all over the country. It is a crucial condition that the representative of Kielland Asmyhr does not take into account in its reasoning on reduced import protection. Volume also provides the basis for multiple uses in operation, and again is the basis for bud shooting and innovation. It is for me the most offensive thing: to create more industry and new jobs based on the total resources of agriculture. I believe that this broad approach to agricultural policy is really forward-looking and offensive. It is a policy that ensures that agriculture is in fact able to deliver safe and healthy food, cultural landscapes, living settlements and new goods and services through active food production across the country. So it is not a policy that unilaterally has the production of cheap food as its target, but that is robust and forward-looking. Food production in Norway has many advantages that we are going to develop further. In rural areas around Norway, food is produced as part of local culture and identity. A favourable climate, spread and relatively small use and a high level of competence in the industry provide products with a particular taste, good quality in terms of safety and purity and healthy food. A few days ago, I received a briefing at Matforsk at Ås on the unique qualities of Norwegian construction in nutrition and health. This cold climate obviously gives lower yields and thus higher costs per. kilos we produce in Norway, but it actually also provides a very good nutritional quality that is now becoming very interested in in many research environments and that consumers will in future be asking for. Further development of this example requires industry competence, requires research, and requires effective protection of imports. It is forward-looking to further develop traditional Norwegian food production. The most visible result of active food production, with grazing animals throughout the country, is a well-kept cultural landscape. The agricultural-related cultural landscape offers unused opportunities for Norway as a destination. This is something the tourism industry is increasingly focusing on. grazing animals high to the mountains and far to the north are definitely not the cheapest way to produce meat, but very sensible in relation to the quality of experience and value creation in travel, which then becomes an additional effect of food production across the country. Furthermore, a forward-looking agricultural policy for an open cultural landscape needs to be coordinated with an offensive energy policy, where increased focus on bioenergy will also help prevent re-growth. This has the potential to provide many valuable new jobs in the future. We're actually talking about hundreds of jobs per person. TWh energy produced from the agricultural industry. Such a commitment also requires an interaction with traditional food production and an agricultural policy that ensures settlement and active nutritionists in rural areas with resources and willingness to use the biofuels for renewable and environmentally friendly energy. Food production and the daily interaction between animals, humans and nature constitute a valuable area for training, recreation and therapy for people who are struggling in everyday life. An agricultural policy which ensures local food production and which provides the basis for cooperation between industry and municipalities and municipalities in order to develop a service offer in this sector is forward-looking. I am convinced that we have only seen the beginning of a development in which traditional food production and green care go hand in hand. Here, too, we are talking about a significant potential in terms of the number of jobs. These are some examples of what I think are essential elements of offensive agricultural policy. We can't be the cheapest, but we can be good – and in some areas maybe the best. The reason for this must be that we have sufficient import protection and the necessary tools for profitable volume production of food in Norway, in order to take advantage of special quality competition and to base new industrial development in rural areas on agricultural resources require continued active agriculture throughout the country. The WTO will pressure us on costs and efficiency in raw materials production and processing, but we must not lose focus on the broad agricultural policy aimed at developing new ways of feeding that are not so vulnerable to the outcome of the WTO and that are making greater use of rural resources than today. That is when we best contribute to the achievement of the agricultural policy objectives. And that's when we best show that we have a heart for the whole country. Finally, a lot of this is well going on. An important contribution now is to work for a WTO agreement that continues to provide sufficient national space for action. Then we're going to further develop a broad national agricultural policy that provides the basis for creating values and jobs across the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-30.ana.ud1900e286	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I think it's strange that he shoots back at the Progress Party. It is true that the Progress Party wants a development in which we can make agriculture more efficient than it is today, but it is nice that the Council of State does not see that his own policy has led to the development that we have seen and that has created uncertainty. In agricultural policy, as in many other policy areas, it is also a matter of being ahead of development and early out of action, so that the industry can be robust and on its own feet. That is why I find it strange, when the government knows that a forthcoming WTO agreement will bring major changes to agriculture, that we do not choose to be ahead of ourselves and take measures that will ensure that, when the agreement enters into force, agriculture is robust enough to make the changes that had to be made. State councils say there's been a lot of change in agriculture. It shows the figures, but it is wrong to say that there is no industry that has been converted more than agriculture. In this respect, the Council of State should visit, for example: business leaders in industry, who know the competition from abroad on the pulse every single day. Looking at the average for dairy animals, it shows that the switchover there has been relatively quiet. I agree with the Council of State in what he says about creating more nourishment based on the resources of agriculture. It's positive. But then the Council of State should be offensive and come to Stortinget with matters in which he exemplifies and comes with measures that show which way he wants to go. Research efforts are important. The same is true of bioenergy and green care. These are measures that should be initiated. I agree with what the Council of State said, that Norwegian agriculture cannot be the cheapest. Nor are we going to have a Norwegian agriculture that has ambitions to feed the whole world. But what some niche producers show today is that Norwegian agricultural products are attractive on the world market. By focusing on quality and good market work, we can be the best. For this reason, the Council of State should now invite the Stortinget through concrete issues in order to develop a new agricultural policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-30.ana.ud1900e301	The discussion about this will be largely about the question of what is forward-looking. I note that the Progress Party and the representative of Kielland Asmyhr define «future-oriented» as a one-sided focus on price and dealing with the world market. If we do not manage to take care of and further develop what is the quality of Norwegian agriculture – in particular the qualities of Norwegian society – in relation to a broad approach where we see rural policy and agricultural policy in the context, see the importance of cultural landscapes in the context of food production and see what travel life can develop in interaction with agricultural policy, we will lose something completely fundamentally. We are not robust in meeting the challenges we face in the future. The representative of Kielland Asmyhr admits that we are not going to be the cheapest. We're barely the cheapest on anything in Norway. It has a lot of explanations that I don't need to spend time on here. The representative of Kielland Asmyhr acknowledges that there are just other qualities we need to base on robust Norwegian agriculture. It is precisely by looking at things in the context, and seeing that there is a small-scale agriculture in Norway that is locally thought about, that we also have the opportunity to generate value creation related to traditional food production and also to other industries that I was involved in – not only what I might have the most faith in, energy production, but also travel life, green care and service production for the rest. I think that the entrance to the definition of 'robust' is extremely narrow when you only think about cost cuts and in and on your own think about minimization when you have to deal with tariffs going down. One must be competitive in one area, and then aside from other areas that are actually growing areas, potential areas for agricultural policy in the future. In fact, there is a very significant risk of rinsing the child with the bath water, if you do not see what is behind it just to find out what is good, Norwegian starting points for creating growth and development in the countryside.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-30.ana.ud1900e308	Today, the interpellant is travelling a very important debate. It is important that we discuss all aspects of agricultural policy and, in particular, what is going on in the future. The Minister of Agriculture and Food is responding well to the interpellant, with a policy that we in the Labour Party are behind. I must be allowed to say that I have not heard anyone who has said that they do not trust the duo Gahr Støre and Riis-Johansen in the negotiations they have conducted so far in the WTO. One should not, however, undermine the fact that the challenges are also in line within this industry. But the Progress Party's medicine for future agriculture is, in my opinion, not the way to go. The market management, free from channelling and without concessions, will not give us the agriculture this Government is working for us to have. Over the years, we have seen what kind of agriculture the Progress Party wants. During the last year's budgetary procedure, they had a reduction in transfers of approximately DKK 5 billion. It's a drastic reduction, which would have created a very difficult situation in the industry, and which would probably also have been the starting point for an even more dramatic structural change than we've seen so far, even when Sponheim was driving before. The Soria Moria platform is very ambitious on agriculture’s behalf. It suggested that agriculture play an important role in the construction and employment of the whole country. Agriculture is a supplier of a food industry that employs well over 40,000 people. This industry makes sure that one lets the long transports into processing, and it is important to get to the goal of that 15 pst. food production shall be organic by 2015. Agriculture also has many other functions that we want. The grazing prevents the growth, and the farmers are the finest cultural pacifiers we have. So it's not just about food production, it's about food security and landscape care, which we want this professional group to take care of for us. When tourism is one of the industries in which we are going to invest more in the years ahead, agriculture must be present. My claim is that agriculture will not look dark on the future. It has been, and it will be, but the WTO also offers the opportunity to pursue a policy that gives rise to a threat to the future. Fur - animal nutrition is a highly expanding industry in the world market. Our animal welfare gives fine skins and good prices. Here, a house may receive billions of revenue without it coming under the WTO regime. Support schemes through the green box provide room to range agriculture according to our national lines. Organic farming, such as short-range pure food, is one area, is similar to a forest policy that provides room for increased revenue on both exports and biofuels. Norway has many natural advantages, including: long bright days and cold winters. The first gives good taste and aroma; the last reduces the need for injecting drug use. Intensive, industrialised agriculture, where nature cannot break down overcrowding and chemicals, has become more focussed on lately. We should not be faced with the same situation as other parts of Europe: the regeneration of lakes and watercourses and the poisoning of groundwater. On the contrary, we must learn from the errors others have done and not repeat them. We can get what we want nationally, but then it's not the Progress Party and the interpellant's medicine to print. In my opinion, on the contrary, it will lead to a lot of set-aside land and even more darkened houses than we have today.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-30.ana.ud1900e334	It is disappointing to observe that the Government is not more offensive in meeting the challenges facing agriculture in the coming years. The signals received from the ongoing WTO negotiations and from the political environment within the EU are that support schemes for agriculture will be reduced and changed. Unfortunately, the agricultural policy of the Government seems to be akin to the policy pursued in other economic areas; it consists of firefighting and burial aid. For business in this country, more predictability would have been desirable. In order to meet any results of the WTO negotiations in a more offensive way, the Government should now look at the limitations that Norwegian agricultural policy has put in place for a future-oriented agricultural industry, because there is reason to believe that in the future you will look at the farmer as the Progress Party does, namely as a self-employed person. This would be positive for Norwegian agriculture, because then one can focus on what obstacles lie in the way of effective driving and how deregulation of legislation and the reduction of public bureaucracy, taxes and taxes can make industry more attractive and profitable. Plan economy has never been a success and has never sufficiently contributed to innovation and value-added. Conducting a policy that determines the price, the volume of production or what is to be produced will at all times limit the creativity and innovation. The Progress Party has tried every year to influence the adopted policy based on the principles that food production can run the bureaucracy and politicians and, through many proposals, has tried to show the way to innovation in agricultural policy. I believe in the Norwegian farmer and want a free agriculture that gives each producer a real choice for production within the framework of the market, self-interest and economy. I trust that creativity and creativity are also present in the agricultural sector, but we lack incentives to develop this. Restrictions on forms of operation should be liberalised in order to make farmers equal to the rest of the economy. Aid schemes and regulations need to be gradually reduced, possibly combined with compensation schemes which provide support for those who are adversely affected by changes in agricultural policy over a period of time. The same should apply to taxes and charges, in order to enable manufacturers to compete on equal terms, without any interference from the public other than that resulting from health and environmental requirements and animal protection requirements. It may be time for the farmer to also benefit from the benefits that the market economy has given to everyone else. Why the farmer cannot deliver the product he himself has produced, to whatever he wants, at the highest price, will always appear strange to me. But then I do not see it as a primary political task to regulate the everyday life of businessmen, as some others do. When the government parties in this discussion mix industrial policy and district policy, the picture becomes even more frightening. The fact that politicians want to control the pattern of residence in this country by deciding where to live for ownership of a property is a view that should have been put to death with communism. The fact that one cannot have a greater right of governance over one's own property, which is a major violation of private ownership, is the desire of government parties. That politicians who are elected to serve the people, to such an extent, surpass the individual, are only accepted in the agricultural industry. The fact that prices are regulated on agricultural properties so that they cannot be freely traded at market prices when the buyer and the seller agree shows only how weak ownership is in Norway. A forward-looking agricultural policy must be ensured by strengthening private ownership. But what is the biggest problem, and which shows the rigidity of the Government, is the fact that the well-regulated policy that has been pursued in this area for all years and that has not stopped the decline in the number of farmers in agriculture is still the priority solution for the majority of this room. My call to the Government will be to turn around in time. In order to meet the challenges facing the agricultural industry, it is necessary to increase the possibility and flexibility of managing own property and selling self-produced products, and to allow owners and drivers of agricultural property to benefit from the benefits offered by the market economy to all other traders. This is the only way we can create growth and optimism in the agricultural industry, and that will give us a head start when we meet the results of the WTO negotiations.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-30.ana.ud1900e357	The right starting point is that increased free trade, reduction of customs protection and better protection against barriers to trade are of great positive importance to the Norwegian community. Globalisation has given us huge profits over many years through reasonable imports, access to capital and access to key export markets. As a small nation, Norway is exposed to barriers to trade and protectionism, and it is very important that international trade legislation is effective and provides market access also for countries that are less able to put power behind their trade policy interests. Therefore, the right is concerned that the WTO process must end up in an agreement that provides for a greater degree of free trade. WTO negotiations are likely to have a major impact on Norwegian agriculture. Developments are undoubtedly in the direction of reducing customs protection and reducing State aid to Norwegian agriculture. The impact of this will only take place in a few years' time, and Norway offers great opportunities to prepare agriculture for the transition that a WTO agreement will entail. Taking advantage of the possibilities in the period until the WTO agreement takes effect, we believe that it is absolutely crucial to the impact it will have on agriculture and how it will be transformed. In this respect, the Government has a significant responsibility over the next few years. I therefore find it unsatisfactory that the Minister of Agriculture will only look at agricultural policy when an agreement is in place. There is a long way forward, a lot of time will be lost in terms of conversion, and the conversion could potentially become heavier. I also record that the Council of State supported Prior's purchase of Norgården in order to take account of any WTO agreement, and it seems to me that there is an argument that is poor in relation to the argument that is being put forward today in relation to agricultural policy. Then I would like to stress that the negotiating position of Norway, to provide the widest possible space for action on national agricultural policy, has broad support in the Stortinget. The Bondevik II government worked for that position, just like the Stoltenberg II government is doing now. That is why, in my opinion, it was little tidy of the Central Party in opposition to criticise the then government and the then Minister of Agriculture in relation to the work to take care of Norwegian interests. I think most parties have exactly the same position on these WTO agreements, and I think it would have been useful if the Minister of Agriculture could recognise and confirm today that the Norwegian positions in this area are the same now as they were in the previous period. It is obvious that the WTO Agreement will have some negative consequences for many farmers. The decline in the number of uses and jobs that have marked the development of industry in recent years is likely to speed up. In isolation, this could be difficult and demanding processes for some in agriculture, and it will be the focus of rural policy challenges in many municipalities. I believe that this must be met with a strategy that goes along several lines. Firstly, agriculture needs to be transformed in order to meet changes in the framework conditions. Farmers need to be more able to create greater economic values out of their use, and more profitable operations need to be stimulated. The efficiency of agriculture that has occurred in recent years should be reinforced. This means that those who want and want and can bet on more efficient operation must have the opportunity to do so. The right also believes that ownership is central to the conversion of Norwegian agriculture. Farmers own large values in terms of land and buildings, and it is important that these values become available and realizable in a situation where conversions shoot speed. Therefore, we believe that a more free movement of farm use, a reduction in concession requirements, a less mandatory residence and the lifting of the prohibition of land-sharing are necessary. In this way, we believe that the signals we have seen so far from the new government are going in the wrong direction in relation to ownership. We also believe that the instruments of agricultural policy must be adapted to what could become a new WTO agreement. The aid schemes must be gradually adjusted. We do not believe it is realistic to replace the total lapse of customs protection and State aid with new schemes, and believe that today's agricultural policy should take it inwards and facilitate a gradual transition. We also believe that other regional policy instruments, such as the Regional Fund, should be used. Enterprise policy and tourism policy are becoming very important. Travel life is a very labour-intensive business, it is a growth business, and it is an activity that is strongly out in the districts. We believe that continuing to focus on the increase in tourism stimulation that the previous government started will be very central to meeting the challenges of conversion for agriculture. The food industry must also prepare for increased competition. We believe it is important for the industry to have more domestic competition before the WTO agreement takes effect, and that it would be very unfortunate to protect the food industry too much for competition in the future. The right will warn against an agricultural policy aimed at putting its head in the sand and hoping that WTO negotiations will not produce results. We think it is important to make a change in agriculture, even if it is demanding – it requires political courage, it takes time. For the time being, we have seen little about a forward-looking agricultural policy in relation to the WTO process.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-30.ana.ud1900e383	All honour to the inter-pellant, who put on the agenda a topical theme. There's an insinuation in the interpellation text that it's the government that creates insecurity among the farmers. It is not. What creates uncertainty among farmers is precisely the WTO, free trade and market governance. That is what creates insecurity among Norwegian farmers. Then there is also a call for a signal from the Government. I'm going to get back to one of the signals – there's a lot of signals coming from the government – I'm going to come back to one that goes on organic farming and 15 pst. translation. First, I want to address this with international relations in relation to Norwegian farmers. There we have in this room every reason to be proud of Norwegian farmers. They have done the most important of all, simply solving the problem of overproduction. I do not say that there are occasional fluctuations in economic trends in overproduction in Norway, but one has to a large extent managed to remove the major problem in international agriculture, namely overproduction. How did one manage to do this? Yes, by organizing themselves in cooperatives and thereby having an active relationship with the Norwegian state. This has been a serious, long-term work. And Corphor? Yes, of course, in relation to what is said by the Progress Party and also the Right's representatives here: Release the farmer! Where was the farmer’s freedom, then, in the market? How free was the farmer then in the 1930s had to go and falby a cow and barely get a penny for the kilo? That's why the farmers organized themselves. Therefore, it was the cooperative companies that came into place. We see a trend within international policies that one wants to tear down all these types of cooperative measures that gave the farmer a safe income, and that of course is also part of the central objectives of Norwegian agricultural policy – that the farmer should have a reasonable and secure income, just as other people do. Then, of course, other objectives of agricultural policy come in relation to this with district policy. There we think we might be able to see if we get enough district policy back for the one we're supporting, or if relatively much of these supplements goes to urban struts – around Oslo, around Stavanger, around Trondheim. Could we have got more district policy for this? It's a dialogue we should be able to have with agriculture. Speech is clear: one spends $300 billion a year on export subsidias, i.e. there is overproduction in the different countries with which one is now failing. A lot of this is also going to be dumped in the south. We should also get into Norwegian agricultural policy as a target that there should be market access for countries from the south. It is quite possible if we are able to cut out the triple subsidies that we have in some rich countries. I said that Norway has largely done it. We have to do that. And then once again, we have to go to Norway to start saying, what is the sensitive product? What kind of product would we especially like to protect? We now see that the four chains that run the Norwegian food translation have managed to reach the consumer in Norway in relation to the fact that the poor farmer can meet at the store. At my ICA store in Molde, I meet, through six shelf meters, goods from the third world produced by poor farmers. They have market access 300 meters from where I live. None of the products can be produced by farmers in Molde. We must not believe that when Norwegian agriculture is crushed after excessive free trade, it is the poor farmers who are going to have market shares. We know it's not. That's what industrial giants in agriculture are going to get. We should be proud that Norwegian farmers are able to maintain the cooperation and are able to maintain the level of organisation. That's what peasants in the poor world need. The organisational skills of Norwegian farmers are extremely important. So short about organic farming. That's where we're going to achieve the goal quickly. I have an example from Fröya, where a certain one now has a wild sauce. Organics are no longer available. It is then shipped to Oppdal, but it is downgraded to non-organic precisely because the transport has been too long. So here a dore has to look at the structure of the slaughterhouse cooperative, one has to be able to meet the challenges that ecological demand poses, because consumers want organic products. It's up to agriculture to manage to produce them. We politicians have to set up the necessary incentives.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-30.ana.ud1900e411	Although there are very different opinions, there is a very important debate we have today. So far it has been particularly interesting to listen to the exchanges of views between Kielland Asmyhr and the Council of State. Let me point out: in the Christian People's Party, we will first see the final results of the WTO negotiations. Now it's too early to draw conclusions. In the Christian People's Party, we perceive the situation so that it will still be possible to develop an agricultural policy adapted to Norwegian circumstances. It is an important demand from the Christian People's Party to the Government that the WTO agreement be given a design that ensures room for consideration of Norwegian relations. The Christian People's Party also believes that the Government must maintain a real customs protection for important nuclear products in Norwegian agriculture. We understand that it may be necessary to make changes to the design of the agricultural support system under a WTO agreement. But the Christian People's Party does not see any need to reduce agricultural support over the state budget. Any reduced support under the WTO rules must benefit agriculture. I want to challenge the Council of State to clarify whether the Government agrees with this. Active agriculture is important for housing and workplaces, for food production and for cultural landscapes. In addition, agriculture is important for tourism, small and service industries. For the Christian People's Party, living agriculture in the whole country is both a goal and a means. First, it's a goal in itself, but it's also the most important tool we have to secure living settlements throughout the country. If we look at the statistics on income, we can see that agricultural incomes are low. The need for new incomes has set new requirements and targets for food and agricultural policy. We have to meet this offensively. For the Christian People's Party, the aim is to give farmers the same development in income as other professional groups in our society. I have noticed that the Government wants to invest in family business. This means we in the Christian People's Party are right. But we want to expand the content of the expression 'family usage'. The new family use needs to focus more on the lack and exploitation of the human and natural resources of the use. The design of the support schemes must facilitate such an extended understanding of family use. If we are to be closed with this, family use must have an economic platform that allows for a lack of resources. We need better welfare arrangements to ensure recruitment, and we need to look at the education of nature use from an entrepreneurship perspective. We also need to be given tools for investment and risk capital that are precisely the eye-catching development of the giraffe on the drapes. Agricultural negotiations are central to bringing the industry to a future-oriented development. The Christian People's Party believes that cooperation between the state and agricultural organizations is necessary to achieve good development. In the Christian People's Party, therefore, we have put emphasis on agreement and agreements, in the years we had government power. It is important that the current government follows up this line and does not hesitate to remove the agricultural negotiations if one does not get it as one will, as some representatives from the current government party have done before. The Christian People's Party believes that agricultural development must take place in close cooperation with farmers. We think that a new agricultural commission, such as some from the Labour Party, is an error trail. We believe that the principle from St.meld. No 19 for 1999-2000 remains good. Necessary changes may be made in a tidy manner through the annual agricultural negotiations. We have also recently seen that food security is important both for consumers, for farmers and for the food industry. This will become more and more current. The challenges of a more globalised trade in food, but also from the environment, consumption habits, more efficient agriculture, changes in the food industry, etc. calls for new strategies and measures. I would therefore like to ask again that the Government send a big message about this. So finally, there is a difference between the Christian People's Party and the Progress Party's approach to agricultural policy. The Christian People's Party acknowledges that food production in Norway takes place under climatic conditions that require public support for farmers to have income development in line with other professional groups. For the Christian People's Party is not the cheapest possible food a goal, for us is actually safe food the most important. We see good reasons for holding a cooperative organisation in agriculture, we think it is an advantage both for farmers and for consumers. The Christian People's Party wants agriculture all over the country, so we need a conscious policy that makes it possible. Regulations are needed to achieve the objectives we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-30.ana.ud1900e439	The management of renewable resources is the main common feature of the agricultural, forestry and off-road industries. The industries are central to meeting important societal goals such as providing the country with the food we have natural basis for producing, providing the basis for a decentralised business and, not least, maintaining a decentralised housing pattern. The industries are also important for the long-term management of land and forest resources in the country and for the management of biodiversity and cultural landscapes. Norwegian agriculture is the main task of producing safe and clean food. This is a good thing for society. A viable Norway requires a viable agriculture. It involves agriculture where there is room for both small and large units, and where local diversity and creativity are encouraged, as the Council of State correctly points out in its statement. The importance of agriculture for a living district of Norway is great, and there is no other industry that likewise builds this long-range country. Therefore, it is also so important to ensure a varied use structure, and import protection will also become an important and fundamental prerequisite for a national agricultural policy. Every country must have the right and a moral duty to ensure its own food supply and to have a varied agriculture that allows it. Unlike the Progress Party, the Centre Party sees agricultural policy as one of the pillars of regional policy now and in the years to come. Norway has rich grazing resources, a cold climate, and we have largely small properties. That means that the international competition for cheap food will never win Norway. However, Norway has a responsibility to contribute its part in ensuring world food security. The centre party will pursue an agricultural policy that provides the basis for exploiting our resources, its resources, food production. Agricultural policy in the last decades has led to a decline in the profitability of agriculture and a deterioration in the ability of agriculture to contribute to important societal tasks. Strong agriculture throughout the country is therefore important in order to ensure housing and employment and in the care of cultural landscapes and the environment. Agricultural policy must be based on the importance of agriculture for society and not least on fundamental respect for ownership. New technological solutions, other forms of production and changing framework conditions make agriculture an industry that has undergone major transformations. Here, too, I would like to give my support to the production provided by the Council of State, and not to the production that is wrong, that the Party of Advancement gives. The varied size of use has ensured an environmentally good agriculture for Norway, with good animal welfare and good quality of products if we compare ourselves with other countries. We want to work towards an agricultural policy that will further develop the breadth of Norwegian agriculture. Further industrialisation of agriculture will lead to a deterioration in these competitive advantages. So in that sense, the Centre Party will have a shift in agricultural policy, we will have more focus on family farming, and we must not least have a stronger focus on the opportunities that a variety of agriculture offers, that is what is most robust, with Norwegian nature, with Norwegian framework conditions. The financial framework conditions laid down in the agricultural holding shall ensure the profitability of varied food production. In order for young people to choose to invest in a future in agriculture, the instruments for young people who want to invest need to be improved. As I said, a diverse country requires a variety of agricultural policies. Excessive liberalisation of agricultural policy is not compatible with the many tasks assigned to agriculture in Norway. For the Centre Party, it is important that Norway take clear positions and seek good alliances to ensure the right of all countries to own food production in the International Food Trade Code. Through an active use of national agricultural policy instruments, the Centre Party will exploit the scope of current and any new trade agreements to continue to ensure a variety of Norwegian agriculture, and not least income development and social conditions in line with other groups of domestic countries. So finally, when the interpellant points out in its main post that they want to "release the farmer free", I would point out that it is a mantra with many sides. He wants a free agriculture, a market economy agriculture. I would like to ask: what kind of country in the world is it that has a market-adapted agriculture at all? And how is this freedom to be achieved? Well, by opening up the boundaries, which leads to a reduction in prices. But what does reduced prices lead to? In fact, this means that the agriculture to which the Progress Party wishes, the industrialised agriculture, is the most vulnerable agricultural sector, through a more transparent policy. So here are the big big, big gaps in the policy of the Progress Party. What they're proposing doesn't match reality.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-30.ana.ud1900e462	The interpellant travels an important theme. There is no doubt that Norwegian agriculture is facing major changes in the years ahead. But at the same time it will be to hear the concerns of the Advance Party about the Norwegian agricultural future a bit like experiencing a doctor who makes the right diagnosis, but who prescribes the wrong medicine to get better. The new Minister of Agriculture, Terje Riis-Johansen, has spent about five months in the Council of State to move agricultural policy back many steps, into a policy which is demonstrably ineffective, and not least whether the aim is to stop the decline of applicants for production subsidies in the agricultural agreement, as the Council of State and the party of the Council of State repeatedly repeat. It is a political goal that is about as easy to achieve as it is to stop the future – in and of itself not an unknown wish from centre party teams either. At all events, it is extremely difficult to see what is going to be the new and offensive agricultural policy of the current government. So far, we have heard some vague wordings about the importance of family farming, while the Council of State Party Per Olaf Lundtigen will give farmers the same crown supplement as the other groups in the spring income statement, without that proposal being mentioned well received by the board of directors of the SV and the Workers' Party, to say it carefully. However, the Minister of Agriculture has been very active in reverse policy. The proposal to lift the ban on division in the soil law – which would have led to increased housing in districts, industrial development and simplification – has been stopped. Now, however, the Council of State is given the opportunity to think again because Lars Sponheim and I have promoted the original proposal, and it is now under consideration in the Business Committee. Renewal of State Forest is reversed. The Odel Act shall be in place and the introduction of housing obligations in the outlying and mountain areas has been announced. The last only helps to reduce the values of property owners with a pen stroke, while there is an old-fashioned way to force people to live in the countryside and make Building Norway less attractive – contrary to what should have been government policy. At the same time, important WTO negotiations are taking place, where the sitting government has gone much further in concessions than what Riis- Johansen’s party leader, with great pathos and tears in his eyes, called the “Left and Christian People’s Party’s Last Dramatic Greetings to District Norway”. Instead of looking back and reversing, the new Minister of Agriculture should continue the successful policies pursued by Lars Sponheim and the Bondevik II Government. It created a new optimism in agriculture and district Norway. Modernisation of Norwegian agriculture must therefore continue. The left looks at the farmer as a seagoing trader with a special management responsibility. Therefore, it is important that the entrepreneurial spirit is given an important place in agriculture. The rural resource base needs to be exploited to a greater extent for the development of economic activity and for the settlement of people with no direct connection to primary industries. There needs to be more diversity in agriculture. Local authorities need to be given greater opportunities for local adjustment and for looking at agricultural policies in the context of other industrial policies. Just the complex legislation and many of the laws of agriculture hinder the development of more flexible agriculture, which will enable those who want to invest in the industry to do so. The Left therefore wants a full review of legislation and legislation with a view to a strong modernisation. Unfortunately, the signals from the Minister of Agriculture are the opposite: it is backwards into the future. This spring, the government's agricultural policy will put a number of tests to work on. The request for WTO negotiations falls approximately at the same time as the year's agricultural settlement. Here, the Government, at least the Council of State, has made it clear that it is art to send completely opposite signals about what they want with the agricultural policy of the future. The outcome of the WTO negotiations, with the government's blessing, will require transformation and innovation. The signals about the device on the country's offer in the agricultural negotiations are exactly the opposite – minimum migration and innovation. Finally, I would like to challenge the Council of State to answer the following questions: Will the Government make its own concessions in the WTO negotiations reflected in the State's offer in the course of the year's agricultural negotiations, and can the Council of State guarantee, as the Central Party's parliamentary leader, Magnhild Meltvej Kleppa, so boldly asserted in Stavanger AFTENblad on 12 March this year, that this year's agricultural settlement will be the best farmers in five years' time? Because it's not that the Central Party's parliamentary leader goes out with such a play in the media without having cleared it up with the party's own Minister of Agriculture? Or is it probably an example of the Central Party's strategy to make the defeats visible?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-30.ana.ud1900e483	The sense of solidarity of the Norwegian people has been weakened in the last few years. Swedish trade is increasing, and most people care little about Norwegian agricultural policy. The Labour Party believes it is important to focus on the big task and value of agriculture in addition to producing safe food at so-called the right price. There will simply be two different debates if the goal is to be efficient and cheap food production. Agriculture must also take other forms, such as district policy, housing, cultural landscapes, biological diversity, etc. The 2006 draft budget of the Progress Party would have destroyed all these important policy areas. We have major challenges before Norwegian agricultural policy. As in almost all other areas, the increasing internationalisation, not to say globalisation, represents the greatest challenges. This is a development that Norway can only influence to some extent, much less governance on a political basis. There will be a great deal of a question of adapting to new circumstances, whether we talk about possibilities or tragedy. Until the last few years, we have been able to design our policies almost entirely based on national considerations. The details of the agricultural agreements when they relate to schemes such as: Taking special geographical considerations into account is an example of this. Export subsidies to dump our overproduction in the international market are different. Today we have the whole world into life. Along the Swedish border, there are trading discs that lure the Nordics across borders every single day. This trade has a turnover of several billion dollars in a year. In the EU, which is also part of Sweden, they lower consumer prices even more. In the WTO negotiations, we are calling for reductions in customs duties and a strong pressure against productivity-right support, which includes both protection aid and price support from the State budget. When it comes to the economic transfers to agriculture, I would argue that increased transfers do not solve the problem for agriculture. Transfers are also not isolated, so eye-catching height. They represent, for example: not more than three years of cash support payments, and there can be no doubt about what is the greatest social benefit of these two cash transfers. It's just that it's not possible to look at the financial transfers in isolation. We just need to recognise that globalisation has seen major social and political changes. Consumers are becoming important as press groups in the market and thus premiscuous for development. Consumers have become much more conscious than before. Many travel abroad and thus experience other qualities and product variants. Consumers want to go in several directions, and their interests are very complex. In this context, consumers represent market forces. We can say a lot about market forces. I also do that from time to time, but the producers who don't produce what the market is asking for will not have the right to life either. There are no contradictions here. The fact that Norwegian restaurants do not get Norwegian meat of the quality they require does not allow the nutrition to be recognized. When price is involved, one can of course talk about conflicting interests between the producer and the consumer, but as long as we have a border trade that only increases, producers have to stretch far to meet this challenge. For us as politicians, it may be a simple, and therefore wrong, solution to leave the industry to itself and the market forces, as the Progress Party will. 'Get rid of the farmer' said the interpellant in his post. Yes, then we can shoot a white stick after a viable agriculture and living settlements all over the country. So I'm not saying that everything should be like it already. It would be to trick both yourself and the nutritionists. Then we will meet the wall quite brutally and get conditions in the districts that are not in line with the political objective. We don't want this kind of development.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-30.ana.ud1900e502	It is invited to a strategy for future agriculture. I have to say it is a rather difficult debate. We do not agree here in the Chamber on what is the purpose of today's policy, and we do not agree on what is actually happening in the industry. How can we get a strategy for future agriculture when we have such a different perception of reality? There are some here in the Chamber who believe that today's agricultural policy is aimed at caring for the farmers, taking care of the rural industries. Policy has never been so poor in terms of an objective that it could develop for decades after decades. The score has been the cheapest food and fiber possible. That has been the main line of policy after all. What is happening in agriculture today with the use of the country? For agriculture, it is actually the use of land. I was so lucky to experience the Green Week and how Norwegian agriculture was presented using the state's resources, namely as a forward-looking agriculture, which is dynamic, which provides food security, which provides living communities, and which provides ecologically sound management – at all, a safe, long-term and creative agriculture. But what's being presented abroad is something that we know very little about in presentations in Norway, what it looks like. Today, we have a poor target in most of the most important agricultural policy areas, but we have a good target at one point, namely, the cheapest food possible. Today, of a consumer’s 100 kroner, less than DKK 1.80 is used as a payment for the Norwegian farmer’s raw materials – read milk, meat, cereals and vegetables. Of course, it's still a little bit to pick up. We can still go below NOK 1.80, but we don't have more than NOK 1.80 to go on. So if it's completely free, it's going to be $1.80 at the consumer's disposal. This puts what we're doing into a broader perspective in relation to the discussion we had here in the day on security, both in terms of quality and supply. I would say that the WTO outcome will mean that those countries that have the opportunity to do so will still have the opportunity, through WTO legislation, to do what they can to produce their own food for consumers. The Siv Jensen Progress Party has not yet responded to which countries are exemplary in the policy of the Progress Party, in the meaning of which countries are practicing the policy of the Progress Party. I am asking for an answer to that. We need to find out what the policy is in practice. What is clear is that the state is involved in the design of the country's food supply. That's the way it is, and that's how it has been. It has led us into a situation where today we have a large government management of agriculture as a result of the fall in the commodity price and where there are appropriations for the government budget that give the net income. My main problem with the Progress Party is that they say they're too freer farmers. But the point is that when you have to have a single European market in food, where it is the dumping prices that are becoming tone-setting, the dynamic farmer, whom the Progress Party wants to raise, who is the entrepreneur of the future, is going to get the biggest income losses. There will be the greatest risk. There will be the greatest uncertainty. And then, in part to compensate it for a certain period of time, one is going to increase the government's appropriations. In other words, its more advanced party policy, its greater dependence on the state and its more unfree peasant in an economic sense. It will be very interesting to discuss agricultural policy in the future, but it requires that we have a fairly common reality of what is the purpose of today's policy. What's happening in the countryside? That's a professional question. So we can get the vision: is it the cheapest food possible, less than SEK 1.80, that's the point, or is it the security of quality and supply?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-30.ana.ud1900e521	It's an important interpellation and an important theme that's going on in the Storting today. Agriculture we depend on throughout the country. But when I'm listening to the Progress Party and the Interpellant, I'm actually wondering if they believe what they're saying. Is it possible to create a living agriculture based on the policy outlined here by the Progress Party? I have a feeling that has worked in Sweden as a researcher in agricultural policy and have been given the opportunity to look closely at what has happened in Sweden, where they have conducted a completely different regional and agricultural policy than Norway has done. Norway has been largely in favour of a comprehensive agricultural policy, and I believe, in fact, that all parties, apart from the Progress Party, have somewhat the same guidelines for agricultural policy. In Sweden, they have not had the decentralisation policy that Norway has pursued, and we can see a completely different landscape and a completely different pattern of settlement than Norway has. Although we see that part of the Norwegian landscape is also growing again, and we see a lot of abandoned gardening, it is not nearly what we see in large parts of Sweden today. It is thanks to the offensive agricultural policy that has been pursued over the last few years in Norway, and a long time ago. Having said that, I would say that as well as the interpellant, I am also impatient about the new agricultural policy that the new government has announced. It certainly doesn't mean anything if I know it quickly, but what I'm afraid of now is that there are some farmers that are getting confused and losing their courage. So I think it's important that the new government now comes up with the new measures that they have announced, but that we don't know so much about. I am thinking about the themes that were mentioned here today, for example. bioenergy. The previous government started up as a bet area and, as the Minister of Agriculture refers to, it can provide many jobs for Norwegian farmers. But what further? What should a do to get the market? What kind of measures will the Government bring? Together with organic farming: we got an incredibly positive development, and an optimism was created, and now we see that it's flat. What does the Government want to do to move it forward, to get to 15 pst, which is the goal? I also see in the locals around the country, and especially on my edges of the country, in the West, that there are some farmers who had looked forward to, I believe, the new government's new agricultural policy, and who are starting to ask questions about what is coming. There is also a concern about the governance that one might now see more tendency – that one will control regional agricultural policy. I think it's necessary for the districts to evolve on the basis of the authorities that exist. We don't have large plots on our edges. We must have the opportunity to join together, with the common feather, with the common operation and with the common triggers. It's absolutely necessary if we're going to have milk production. And milk production is necessary for us to have an agriculture. There are several farmers who now claim that the Minister of Agriculture is overrun by regional agricultural strategies. And when we talk about releasing the farmer, it's at least important to include the knowledge that you have in different parts of agriculture, so that an agriculture is created that adapts to the creativity, abilities and aspirations of individual gardeners. So I encourage the Minister of Agriculture now to at least give the farmers – as I said, it probably doesn't mean that much if I know – some indication of concrete measures. I think it's too long to wait for the WTO negotiations to end. The government should give a few signals before it, so that the optimism created by agriculture continues.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-30.ana.ud1900e534	I would like to thank you for a good debate and also for expressing my appreciation for having addressed this issue. What has been common to all the speakers who have spoken in this debate is that uncertainty has been expressed for the future of agriculture. That's probably the common denominator I'd like to point out that has been the red thread in this debate. When an overall increase is uncertain as to what the future of agriculture will be like, it is important to face that uncertainty offensively. At least that's our policy. The biggest recognition that came in this debate was from the representative of Lundteg, who said that the point of agricultural policy that has led so far has been to have the cheapest food possible. That statement is in stark contrast to what both the Councils and other representatives of the government parties have said, that the purpose has not been just price, and the Progress Party has been criticized for focusing only on price. No, that's not right. The Progress Party is not just focusing on price, but we need to see that in some areas we need to have larger units of production, and in other areas we need to find new opportunities for smaller producers. Then there are the individual speakers who have said that there are other qualities that should govern Norwegian agriculture. It has been said that green box in the WTO Agreement will provide opportunities. It's been pointed at landscape care. I want to warn you that agriculture is going to have a different main task than producing food. We must never get there that the farmer should become some sort of state-owned gardener, and that is what should be the main task. Bear Jacobsen said it's the WTO and free trade that create agricultural uncertainty, not the government. It might be interesting to ask the representative Jacobsen if he wants to abolish free trade in other areas, for example: in the field of energy. The representative Lundteigen also pointed to the positiveness that was around Norwegian participation in the Green Week. I agree with the representative that it is a future-oriented arena to play on. That is why we need to focus our resources on these types of areas in which we are working against the demanding markets, so that we can generate new growth in agriculture.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-30.ana.ud1900e549	I have tried with interest to follow the reasoning of the inter-pellant and the Progress Party here in the debate today in relation to robustness and forward-looking agriculture. I have not been able to hear anything other than the recipe for closure, degradation and deprivation, fewer use, fewer jobs and lower value creation. That's what I've heard here today. It is perfectly legitimate to have such a reasoning, but to call it robust – no, and to call it forward-looking – no. I even heard the representative Fostervold use the word «communism» in connection with a link between district policy and industrial policy. I can't be more disagreeable, simply. I've heard a lot that's a recipe for a development that many of us really disagree with. A deregulation carried out is not, as one can get the impression from the speaker of the Progress Party here today, which is popular in the countryside. I would respectfully like to say that I am both traveling around the village a little bit, have been at a lot of meetings and have met some of the people who live there. I have not heard the popular demand to which the Progress Party refers, nor have I, when I travel abroad, seen the great successes there as a result of the objectives and policies outlined here by the Progress Party. So what I've heard about today is a recipe for a little successful landing, but also not much more. With regard to the WTO, there are clearly significant challenges there. I'm the first to mention that. I am also among those who are concerned about the challenges that the WTO process can bring to Norwegian agriculture. It is a demanding process, and there is no doubt that the positions of Norway, the G10 countries, etc. has been put under a pressure in relation to those negotiations. My answer to that is to show firmness and clarity in the negotiation process, to have the will to compensate for the disadvantages that a new agreement could bring, and to develop the Norwegian model in relation to decentralised, small-scale agriculture and agricultural policy, and with a broad approach to policy-making. I have read recently today, in the evening post, that the leader of the Progress Party now notes that there is a need for revision of the Kindergarten policy and family policy of the Progress Party, because it was obviously not entirely coherent in everything that was formulated there. I think it might be nice to put agricultural policy in the same curve as looking at the consequences of what is being said here today. So I just have to finally make a little comment on what the representative made from the left said. When the representative, Mr. Girde, can say from the Spokesman's Chair that they are concerned about the government's willingness to follow up the efforts of the previous government on bioenergy, I think it's worth noting those words. It's a relatively simple task to follow up. I'm going to guarantee that we're going to get further in four years than the previous government did in that area.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-30.ana.ud1900e562	As a result, the interpellation debate in case No. 1 over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-30.ana.ud1900e576	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines within the allocated speaking time of up to 5 lines after the intervention of the Council of State. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-30.ana.ud1900e585	If I had had 10 minutes, I would have kept this post in both Sami and Norwegian. But I only have five minutes, so I'll take it in Norwegian. The merger has delivered its annual report on the work in Sametinget in 2004. The Annual Communication sets out significant policy work, the tasks to be managed by the Sameting and economic and administrative challenges. There has been a large consensus in the Committee on most of the comments on the annual report. The party has submitted its own comments. At kgl. The Resolution of 1 July 2005 has now established consultation procedures between State authorities and the Sameting. This has been important in meeting Norway’s international obligations. The Finnish Law was adopted at Odelstinget on 24 May 2005. Before the decision in Odelstinget, the establishment had been supported by a unanimous merger and more than two thirds of the members of the Finnmark county. The first government in the Finnmark property has now established itself and is in the process of working. It is envisaged that the Finnish Land Code on Finnmark’s property, with the acquisition of Stateskog’s land in Finnmark, may enter into force during the second quarter of 2006. Work on the preservation and development of the Sami languages is very important. Sami students today have an individual right to training in Sami language, no matter where they live in the country. But for them to be trained in Sami, they have to be a group of at least ten students. It's important, as I see it, to work in order for training in Sami to become an individual right. The educational environment in the Sami school needs to be improved considerably, and more and more new learning materials need to be developed. We also need to focus more on the production of teaching materials in southern and lulesamic areas, and the state-owned Sami secondary schools in Karasjok and Kautokeino must also be able to offer different lines in both the general and professional fields in the future. The majority of the Committee will also ask the Government to work towards the rapid realization of the Eastern Sami Centre in Neiden, Aja Sámi Centre in Kåfjord, Saemien Sijte in Snåsa and the Art Museum in Karasjok. In particular, I would ask the Government to work to ensure that both a nationwide sociable and a nationwide Norwegian-language sami daily newspaper can become a reality as soon as possible. The appropriations allocated to Sámi newspapers are not sufficient today. It is crucial for the dissemination of information, the development of identity and the democracy of the Sami community that framework conditions are now provided for this. The background to the need is to approx. half of the voters at the time of the Velocity do not understand the Sami, and about half of the voters at the time of the Same. Half of those who speak Sami cannot read Sami. So three quarters depend on written information in Norwegian on Sami matters about understanding the content. A comprehensive and flexible business life forms the material basis for Sami culture. The challenge lies in ensuring development opportunities in primary industries such as reindeer management, fisheries, agriculture, duoji and off-road industries. Finally, I would like to ask the Government to pay particular attention to the concern of the whole industry and the reindeer industry about the consequences of possible wind power expansion in Finnmark, in particular. The sewerage industry is a very important support member of the Sami culture, and wind farms with line and construction routes are going to be a major intervention in the Sami reindeer pastures. I strongly advise against this. On behalf of the majority, I am delighted to recommend the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-30.ana.ud1900e617	As stated in the opinion, there is a great deal of consensus in the Committee on the comments on the 2004 report of the Sameting. This is a good starting point for us to continue to develop a relationship with Norway's own indigenous population, of which it is respected, and which is in order. Although many of the issues relating to common policies lie in different departments, it is important that we in this way also have the opportunity to discuss the whole coordinated common policies in the context. In order to further develop the relationship with the Sameting and the Sami population, the consultation system that has been put in place is of great importance. It is important to fulfil our international obligations that the right of indigenous peoples to be heard in matters of which they are affected is properly respected. In the same way, I think it is important that we now have increased the allocation and strengthening of the possibilities for the merger's control of its own activities through the joint control committee. It has been strengthened in view of the comments that have been made in the past in this regard, and we now see that we have come a long way further. A significant part of the development in the Sami area is linked to culture in a broad sense. It is therefore important that the Committee, with the exception of the minority, agrees on the strengthening of both cultural institutions and cultural activities. It also includes the right to develop language and own identity. For this reason, the Committee's comments on both schools are, inter alia, the following. in Kautokeino, a wide range of lines in secondary school, and not least the development we are now seeing with the construction of a new science building in Kautokeino, which provides the opportunity to pool academic competence in the Sami environment, particularly important. We think that will lead to a positive development for the Sami culture, the Sami language and the knowledge of the Sami society. Similarly, it is interesting to follow further developments and follow-up of the Finnmarks Act and the Finnmarks Property in the future. The way we've organized that relationship is a new job internationally. It was also a topic when the committee was back in Geneva for a short time and visited both the High Commissioner for Human Rights and the ILO, who both work with indigenous questions as part of their territory. It was interesting to see that the way we have dealt with these questions in Norway was highlighted as an example of follow-up for other countries around us. The Committee has also been in Karasjok and Kautokeino, among others. visited the Sameting and saw the ambition of the Storting to contribute positively to the development of the identity, activity and initiatives of the Sami environment through the establishment of the Sameting. It's really good results, and we'll see after a few years that the whole thing works as intended. As I said, in the fields of culture, industrial policy and, above all, the enhancement of skills, it provides good results. It is therefore gratifying that the Committee is so strongly behind the position and comments of the 2004 report. It is a little strange that a single party is not even able to realize that the Sami population is an indigenous population in Norway. But if we ignore the minority position it implies in the committee, all of us agree that the development we are now in is good and must be continued.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-30.ana.ud1900e632	The job that has been done by the Stortinget regarding the Finnish Law should have been aimed at promoting the principle of equality for the inhabitants of the whole Finnmark county. The Progress Party is not satisfied with the Finnmark Act, which discriminates between the inhabitants of Finnmark County. The clarification in the Finnish Law that Samer should not be treated in the same way as the rest of the Finnmark population is a disaster for the whole of Finnmark and will cause great fragmentation. The law, in the opinion of the Progress Party, is a piece of cake. The main objective of the law is to ensure the existence of the Sameting, and it does not impose a principle of equality on the inhabitants of the county. The law also provides for specific measures to be put in place vis-à-vis collectives. It is unreasonable, and it is fundamentally contrary to Norwegian culture. It is also a crisis that if there is a conflict between the ILO Convention and Norwegian law, the ILO Convention goes ahead of Norwegian law. In recent years, Sami culture has taken on a status that is in no way proportionate to its population base. It allows for discrimination between Sami and ethnic Northmen. Now the government goes on and will give Troms the rule of an official Sami name without it having anchored in the population. Even the majority of the group is unable to read and write in Sami. On the basis of the data collected, the Progress Party concludes that very few of the inhabitants of Troms use Sami. Troms probably have fewer inhabitants who master Sami languages than more Eastern states do. The Progress Party wonders that the Government is working to give Sami languages an artificial equality with, status in line with, Norwegian in a state where the Sami language share is negligible. It has little to do with the population composition of Troms and is only suitable for creating expenses, confusion and conflicts. I would like to point out that the principle of non-discrimination is a strong principle in Norway, and that it is not relevant to give any groups, regardless of their origin, special schemes others do not have. I would also point out that the principle of non-discrimination makes any form of positive or negative discrimination based on religion, sex, orientation, ethnic or political affiliation unacceptable. I refer you to ILO Convention No. 169 on indigenous and indigenous peoples in independent countries, which Norway, as the first country in the world, has ratified, and which has been ratified only by 17 countries per year. 10 February 2006. In Europe, Norway, the Netherlands and Denmark have acceded to the Convention. Why did Finland and Sweden not come after – whose group is defined as an indigenous population only a few kilometres above the border? Why is it only Norway that has done this? I doubt whether dating in Norway falls within this definition. Where are the women and other minorities – and where are the forest fins? We believe that Norway should withdraw from the Convention on the first occasion. I'd like to remind you of the basis of the Sameting. The Joint Committee was appointed by the Crown Prince's Resolution of 10 October 1980, as part of the work to achieve reconciliation after the conflict on the Alta River. In other words, the process that has subsequently granted a number of special rights to the group was initiated in order to bring about domestic peace in Norway — not necessarily to strengthen the rights of the indigenous population or to live up to international conventions. I am very sorry for the wrong done to my partner in previous centuries, but at the same time I warn against compensating for such a situation in retrospect by granting joint special rights. Can a Sami name for Troms be used to legitimise claims for special rights to natural resources, and can a person state that any special rights granted jointly at the same time reduce the rights of ethnic Northmen who have lived in the area for the same period?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-30.ana.ud1900e647	The majority has adopted the Human Rights Act and has taken international responsibility. It seems right to follow up. The indigenous population is among the special fields of action for the work of Norway's international human rights. That's going to take the consequences of that right there. In contrast to the Advancement Party, I would like to say from the Right that this is an exciting, interesting and challenging area – Keyword: the Finnish Law. The fact that an area is filled with conflict should not prevent it from being a challenging area – an area that is seen positively to be developing further. But the Finnish Law does not belong to this debate, and I am not going to spend my time on it. In relation to the annual report, there are two areas of activity that I would like to stay with. First, dialogue and communication, and second, language and competence. With regard to the first, dialogue and communication, I would like to highlight the consultation mechanism between the Norwegian authorities and Sametinget. It was established in 2005 and is therefore quite new. A binding interaction between the Government and the Federation has been established. This must be allowed to happen, because there are quite new examples that not everything has worked as well as it should. We remember — on the one hand — some newspaper headlines, when the government’s internal work plan for the northern regions was posted on the Internet. And – on the other hand – the committee has just been traveling in Finnmark, and then we were told that there were different experiences with different departments when it came to communication. So here probably both sides have room for improvement. It must be allowed to take some time, and this will be the case, but it is important that it does, because in working with the indigenous population – with the Sameting, with the Finnland Act and with all the details – dialogue is fundamental. Common understanding and consensus are also fundamental. One example of the fact that we want a good dialogue from the Storting and the Committee is that the Sameting has a special position in relation to the Committee. So there have been regular meetings between the central authorities and the Sameting, in order to address challenges and growing-up conditions for children and young people — and we have recently seen sad events in Kautokeino. These challenges were addressed already with the Stoltenberg government in 2000, and we clearly still have challenges in this area. When I want to say a little bit about the Sami language and competence, it's because I think it's a public responsibility. The people have been deprived of their native language by a forced search process. In fact, it would be lacking if we were not to contribute to the maintenance and further development of the culture that is, and that the language is also allowed to evolve – to have opportunities for stimulation. Then it is children and young people who are essential in this connection as well. It is always important to start with children and young people. Children are the basis for the future — including here — so improving the educational environment is important. And it goes without saying, with the distances in Finnmark, that IT and distance learning are important. If we go a little bit into the age groups, into high school, it should be both general and professional. The Committee has been up there and heard about the science building in Kautokeino, an interesting project that has a future ahead. It is a co-location of several Sami institutions and will be a global centre of expertise in a larger environment, and a central environment, in the interior of Finnland. It could also provide synergies because the university is located there, and will stimulate the local environment, which has major challenges. So finally just a few words about the Progress Party, which says in relation to the Sami language that it's only fit to create expenses, confusion and conflicts. I think it bears witness to a very great lack of understanding of the importance of human beings having a connection, and that we have a culture that we shall be allowed to be proud of. It is also significant that the Progress Party in the 2006 State Budget has eliminated all allocations to national minorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-30.ana.ud1900e666	I remember going back to my own childhood when I was in the first grade, that there was one of the students in the class who didn't say a single word. I remember many years went by when we wondered why she never said anything. And then finally we figured it out -- that's. It took too much time for us to figure it out. She simply could not Norwegian. So she was in a class where only Norwegian was spoken. She had a Sami background, and was able to get so little Norwegian that she could not in any subject make herself understood. No teaching was adapted to her learning anything, and she also ended up as a school loser – not because she lacked something purely intellectual, but simply because we were dealing with a Norwegian society that did not have the ability to meet her with understanding at all. It says something about the huge deficiencies that have occurred with regard to the Norwegian indigenous people, the Sami population, and how much we have to take back. In this area, the Progress Party is completely wrong. For this injustice, you never have to stop correcting. You have to get hold of it. It's a shame – and I want to use that expression, it's possible it's unparliamentary – that in the Sami community you still have to work hard to get enough learning material, that you often have to drive and improvise to get it done. It's a shame that Kautokeino needs to drive and toil in order to put the science building in place, when we recognize that there are deficiencies that we need to correct. It's a shame that Sami newspapers have to fight to survive. It is a pity that we have to fight against the Sami secondary schools in Karasjok and Kautokeino. It is a shame that primary school lacks teaching materials and that it lacks teaching powers. All of this, the rich Norwegian society can do something about it. We see that often formulations become less binding, so that the struggle must be continued year after year. Here we should have taken a power cap and put it in place. I think it is good that the message so clearly underscores those values, and that there is a need to do something about it. But that also means that you have to put it in place in a budget. What is quite paradoxical in discussing the activities of the whole thing is how the uncontroversial, what creates no conflicts in Finnland, does not come into place, while what is extremely conflict-making, namely fundamental democratic conflicts about the right to use land, to use resources, is the subject of a simplification where there is no problem. I have registered that someone has been involved in the reindeer operation. However, what is to a small extent involved is the ecological disaster we are facing in Finnmark today. So it's so low that some of the natural areas are completely destroyed. Some years ago we had 50,000 reindeer on the Finnmark range who were partially starving because there was no grazing ground for it – a severe animal tragedy. And then, as politicians, we can't get hold of it and do anything about it. That means that there are areas in these societies that we close our eyes to in relation to reality, and that we have to deal with. We have to choose policy instruments that can do something about it. When farmers in Finnmark respond to the need to expand grazing areas for reindeer, it is quite legitimate. It is also in Kautokeino, and for the Sami population in Kautokeino, because it can take away from them the basis of life. That means that as a national parliament we need to address these issues with respect for the fact that there are many cultures in Finnmark. There is a Sami population, there are ethnic women, there are ethnic Northmen, and there has also been a not insignificant migration from abroad. This means that conflicts of interest must be met on the basis of an understanding that in democracy there is no fascist response in which one group alone can determine those premises. Here are the really big challenges, as the whole thing gets more influence. How are we to balance the considerations with the rest of the population of Finnmark, so that the solutions chosen do not become conflict-making but conflict-solving? It is a challenge in relation to the Finnland Act, and we all have a responsibility to seek to achieve what we have been looking for. But then you have to make sure that you have ears and eyes open to every input that comes from that area, not just from the Sami population, but also from the rest of the population. It is a challenge that is tangential in the message and in the setting, but as a body, we as a national assembly, have to take seriously in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-30.ana.ud1900e677	On the President's list of unparliamentary words, the President will say that the word 'pity' is not part of the parliamentary language.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-30.ana.ud1900e680	The first people came to Northern Scandinavia for approx. 11,000 years ago. If they were the same, we don't know. But what we're counting on is that Sami culture started and evolved from these first people to today in an interaction between people and culture. Because together is the largest population living in this area, Norway has ratified ILO Convention No. 169 and recognize together as the indigenous peoples of Norway. We have an indigenous people in Norway. Under the Constitution § 110a, the State has committed itself to facilitating the conditions of Sami language, culture and social life. The peculiarity of a native must be ensured by passing on their way of life, culture and values to new generations. Many challenges lie at the intersection of Sami industrial interests, general industrial development, the use of natural resources and land management in Sami settlement areas. Central authorities have a separate responsibility to preserve and further develop Sami culture, which is also part of Norway’s common cultural heritage. The policy of the central authorities must safeguard the rights of the indigenous people, in accordance with international conventions, while maintaining the balance of interests in the county. I am pleased that there is a broad political majority on common policy issues. All parties, with the exception of the Advance Party, are associated with a policy that ensures Sami culture, language, industrial development and social life. The majority of Stortinget also believe that the Sameting is the central authority’s leading premiscuous supplier and dialogue partner in the common policy. I would like to refer to the comment in the position where it says that the majority of the committee ‘have taken note of the fact that consultation procedures have been established between the State authorities and the Sameting in the Royal Resolution of 1 July 2005. This establishes fixed arrangements and procedures for an obligatory interaction between the Government and the Sameting. This is ‘essential to fulfil Norway’s obligations under international law’. As I said, I am pleased with the broad consensus that is in the Committee on the Annual Report for the Sameting. So this applies to all lots except the Progress Party, which takes the message for information and which repeats its main view, that the Sameting should be closed. I want to take a brief historical look back to recall the background and justification of the creation of the Samet. As of 1850, together were subjected to a tough policy of research, including: due to the strong national flows in the Norwegian community. Samene would become Norwegian and learn Norwegian. Sami was to be used less and less in school. The school law was changed in 1959. From then on it was again allowed to use Sami as a training language. Samish initial education started so little from 1967/1968. Although the research press was strong for over a hundred years, there were many Sami who tried to resist it, both north and south. Already at the first Sami national meeting in Trondheim from 6 to 9. On February 1, 1917, they tried to get to a Sami national organization, but it did not work until after World War II, with the Norwegian Reinbrutssamers Landsförbund in 1948 and the Norwegian Samers Riksförbund in 1968. The official Norwegian policy towards the community changed after 1945, also because general ideas about human dignity and the rights of small nations affected the powers of government. The situation of the group was investigated, and the right to preserve and develop Sami languages and culture was officially recognised in the 1960s. On the Norwegian side, the debate on the right to land and water only got under way seriously in the context of the extension of the Alta-Cautokeino watercourse at the end of the 1970s. The opposition to the expansion was so strong that in 1980 the government appointed the Joint Court Committee to investigate the legal position of the parties. The committee's work led, inter alia, to: to the 1987 Law of Association, which forms the basis of the Sameting. The merger was opened for the first time on 9 October 1989. The Christian People's Party will pursue a common policy to serve the Sami population so that Sami language, culture and social life will have a secure future in Norway. We believe that cultural life is important for strengthening identity, while contributing to living communities. The integration must have real influence in the areas that are important to the Sami community. On behalf of the Christian People's Party I would recommend the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-30.ana.ud1900e717	I take the floor as the responsible Council of State for St.meld. No 44 for 2004–2005 on the activities of the Sameting in 2004. The Ministry of Labour and Inclusion is responsible for coordinating common policies. At the same time, all the departments, together with large-scale committees, have a separate responsibility for common policies in their fields. This is also reflected in this Communication, where several departments have designed contributions. The announcement was presented by the previous government, by the then local and regional minister Erna Solberg, who had previously been responsible for the coordination of common policies. The new government chose to allow the message to be processed in the Storting as it is, without any changes. This indicates, as has been said on several occasions, that there is a broad but not full consensus in the Grand Duchy on the main lines of common policy. At the same time, we must take on board the fact that the largest opposition party has a different view and wants to liquidate the whole of the common policy. The Progress Party refers to its fundamental human view: respect for individuality, regardless of ethnic origin, religion, political standing and national affiliation. To that I would say that the Government will fight all discrimination. All shall be required to have the same opportunities to develop, exploit their abilities and live their lives, regardless of sex, social background, religion, sexual orientation, disability or ethnicity. At the same time, if the minority rights are to be guaranteed in a majority democracy, the principle of non-discrimination is not always sufficient. Democracy is more than the decision of the majority. The establishment of the Sameting and the recently concluded consultation agreement between the Government and the Sameting must be seen in this perspective. Dialogue between the majority and the minority is the most appropriate instrument to avoid conflicts, for which I see that the critics of today's common policies are so afraid. The best way is through dialogue to find solutions that are satisfactory both for the majority and for the minority. We also need to take into account that the culture and language of minorities are under severe pressure in today's globalised age. If we want Sami culture and language to be preserved and further developed, active action by the state is necessary. It is not enough to declare a policy of discrimination and assimilation for the end. Impacts in the form of devalued attitudes can last for a long time. There is therefore a need for positive measures to address the long-term impact of past policies. Active action by the State will in many cases be necessary to repair some of the damaged culture and languages and to provide the basis for linguistic and cultural revitalisation. This has been made concrete by the government parties through the Soria Moria declaration. That's what it says. ‘The basis for the common policies is that the State of Norway is originally established in the territory of two peoples, Samer and Nordmen, and that both peoples have the same right and the same requirement to develop their culture and language.’ In addition, the Government: ‘will pursue a common policy to serve the Sami population in order to secure the future of Sami language, culture and society in Norway’. Furthermore, the Soria Moria Declaration states: ‘The merger must have a real influence in areas that are important to the Sami community’.» Here, as several have done, I would like to draw up the consultation agreement that has been concluded, which provides the basis for the interaction between the Sameting and the government apparatus. I would say that through the consultation agreement, Sametinget has been given a more defined place in the Norwegian political system. The challenge now is to follow up the practical policy agreement. The government will place a great deal of emphasis on it in the coming work.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-30.ana.ud1900e750	It's going to be line change. The first replicator is Ib Thomsen. – The President will ask the Council of State and the representative to use the interlocutors at the bottom of the Chamber during the change of line, so that the Council of State uses the nearest interlocutor and the replicant the farthest away.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-30.ana.ud1900e756	The council said he would work against discrimination in Finnmark and – as I understood it – throughout the country. But when the Norwegian population in Finnmark sees the new Finnish law as discriminatory, how will he explain to the rest of the population that he wants to work against discrimination? That's the one question. The second question is: I know that the Council of State cannot answer on behalf of the Finnish and Swedish Governments, but why has Sweden and Finland not ratified the Convention on Associations as Native People, as Norway has done?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-30.ana.ud1900e763	To take the last one first, there is a big debate on this in Sweden and Finland. I want to say it so that they haven't come as far as we've done in Norway, when it comes to taking in the fact that they're also a country with two people. To the first question, I would say that the challenge in Finnmark is that we have to try to find a coexistence between the two peoples of Finnmark who are such that they both come out fairly in terms of their rights to land in Finnmark. In this way, I believe that the Finnmark Act is a very good compromise. It should be able to provide a basis for the two peoples of Finnmark to live well together. It is also expressed through elected bodies in Finnmark, for example. The county council, where the Finnland Act has a wide disintegration, in the same way as it does in the Sameting.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-30.ana.ud1900e770	I would draw your attention to the contribution of the representative of Olav Gunnar Ballo. He used repeatedly the unparliamentary expression 'pity'. Now I will not repeat it, but just point out that, according to the representative, Ballo in several areas, there was a shortage of resources and that budgetary resources had to be put in place. Now it's the way SV is in government. I could therefore imagine asking the Council of State whether the representative Ballo is representative of the Government, and whether the Council of State will ensure that the appropriations are increased, so that it does, for example. will be able to obtain a country-wide Sami newspaper.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-30.ana.ud1900e778	In this way, I and the Government – and therefore also SV – have already started the work. For example, the allocation to Sami culture was increased by 7 million. In our draft budget for this year in relation to what was the last government's draft budget. So just during the weeks we were in the government offices before our budget was presented, we were able to increase the appropriations for key areas of common policy. Now we are working diligently and specifically with the 2007 budget. In a number of areas, there are major ambitions for common policies, both in terms of education, in terms of the media and many other important areas. Then we'll see how far we're going. The answer to that, I guess we can't give until we come with the budget for next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-30.ana.ud1900e785	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-30.ana.ud1900e790	If I'm not going to use unparliamentary expressions, at least I'm going to allow myself to act a little politically incorrectly. We have adopted some kind of truth in research environments and in other academic environments in terms of the characteristics of Sami as indigenous people. But there are, in fact, other research that suggests that this is not correct, among other things. research from Sweden and Norway. We have an archaeologist named Karstein Adriansen, who has used archaeology, linguistics, history, osteology and a number of other methods to prove that gatherings are not necessarily indigenous to Finnmark or to the North Calote. Then there will be something special when we look at the Sameting and the special rights, the special arrangements, which the Storting has been willing to give together as an ethnic group, because the whole reason lies in one thing: that together is an indigenous population. And if that's not right, which is actually a good reason to believe, then the whole foundation of this policy is falling apart. On the contrary, we need to be able to look at the problem of the indigenous population with new eyes without political signals. Because that's what the problem is today: you haven't been willing to see if this is a correct description of reality. On the contrary, there are things that indicate that those who are today ethnic Northmen in this area are descendants of the people who were here first. Then you have to remove ILO Convention No. 169. Then you have to cancel the Sameting, you have to cancel all special arrangements, special benefits, the Finnland Act, etc., because the indigenous definition does not hold in the case of sams. But regardless of that, it is a fact that in a liberal democracy, where the principle of equal treatment is at the bottom of everything you do, with regard to all the practice of politics, it is something special – and I would say directly wrong – that you have to have a special policy for a separate ethnic minority, which is not necessarily an indigenous population, firstly because it creates precedent in relation to other groups, and secondly because it simply violates the principle of non-discrimination. Unfortunately, the Progress Party is on its own. We are the only ones who will treat all people equally, regardless of ethnicity.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-30.ana.ud1900e804	First of all, I want to stress that Sami culture and tradition are enriching society. Of course, it is, in line with all other cultures and traditions. Thus, it is not said that as a society we should treat and distribute one thing in front of another. When Ballo criticises us today for wanting to cut off the support for Sami newspapers, he should be so despicable that he informs us that this is not just about Sami newspapers. It's all about newspapers. He further highlights the problem of grazing resources and grazing grounds in Finnmark, and it is clear that this industry and this tradition will survive in the future, there must be major changes in the way today’s operations are carried out. It is also amazing to listen to the Workers' Party's representative, who boasts of how great the Finnish Law is being received in Geneva and in the international environment. It might have been more important that the representative was concerned about how this was received in Finnmark. In Finnmark, one individual launched a signing campaign against this, and in one month he had collected over 11,000 signatures. It was not very popular in Finnmark. And to the Right, which also disagrees with us in this matter, you can just say that Finnmark Right voted against the law. The worst thing about the law is that a commission will be set up to identify individual and collective properties in Finnmark. And in any case where there is a conflict, ILO Convention No. 169, dealing with tribal and indigenous peoples, take precedence over Norwegian law. The clean-up law, the last revised, does not allow the Nordics to operate in Finland today. I have myself a neighbour on the other side of the fjord who has applied five times for his family, with four sons, to be allowed to continue reindeering. He had a blank rejection, because he has a wrong blood. This is discriminatory for the Finnmark population. We don't feel treated in the same way by the law. And it's very important in a state like Finnmark, where there are so many different ethnic groups as there are, that we relate to an equal treatment of all.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-30.ana.ud1900e817	It could have been tempting to continue the debate, but I won't. There was just one thing I forgot in my post, that the technical summary of the vote says that a principle communication on the common policy will be presented in 2006. That's not true. There will be a communication of principles on common policies in 2007.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-30.ana.ud1900e822	The reason I asked for the floor was the representative from the Right-wing Exchange with Bjarne Håkon Hanssen. What I pointed out at the outset in my article is how you could experience, historically, back to when I went to primary school, total failure in terms of training when it came to the Sami language, how we've seen it happen over generations, and that it still happens. There is no charge against my own government in this. There is an accusation of the failure that has been down through history in Norway, and it is a responsibility that I am convinced this government will take seriously. So there's no reason to misunderstand. What I also pointed out is that I believe that the Progress Party here is fundamentally wrong. One mixes the concepts of ‘equality’ and ‘equal value’, because if one is to create equivalency, which is entirely central to the Norwegian community, people cannot be treated equally. At the moment you treat everyone as if they were the same, a student like the one I drew out as an example from my 1st grade will be suffering throughout every single year in school, because you don't have the ability to meet the individual on the basis of the individual's assumptions. That is the reason why the policy of the Progress Party in this area is completely flawed. Indeed, many more would have come out as losers in Norwegian society – both those with a Sami background, those with a different background, those with a foreign cultural background – because they could not be met on the basis of the individual assumptions and the cultural background of each one. To the extent that I would grant any credit to the Advancement Party – and that I would be careful to do because I think that these fish in touch with water – it must be of course that you should be responsive to the population of Finnmark in general, just as you should be to the rest of the Norwegian population. As far as the Finnmark Act is concerned, we have to have an active relationship with it. We also need to be able to be critical of it if it gets bad results. We need to be critical of the consequences. In general, people in Finnmark – both the same people and those with different backgrounds – have a claim once we have passed that law.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-30.ana.ud1900e833	No one else has asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1777]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-30.ana.ud1900e853	As with so many options before, the 2005 elections were fairly smooth. So there are only a few votes missing that there had been another plural in this room. It's okay enough if it were so that the few voices would have reflected a plurality in the people. But they don't. The majority in this room did not have multiples in the people. As you know, it was the socialist side, including the Centre Party, which I can add in brackets is also socialist, which was given the most mandate and hence government power. But did most of them get votes? No, they didn't. The non-socialist side actually received 22,350 more votes than the parties that today have government powers based on a multiple in Stortinget. If a number of votes is given to a game that did not cross the lock limit and is therefore not represented in the Storting, e.g. Red Val Alliance, the socialist side has most votes, but only if we don't count with votes given to other small parties, like, for example. The Coastal Party and the Retirement Party. If we added these voices to the non-socialist side, there would have been a non-socialist overweight in relation to the totality outside these four walls. But we have a barrier limit, and my point is that when one has such a system, one has to stick to it. In my opinion, then, it must be so that the plurality of the people of the parties represented in the Storting must also give a plurality in Parliament. One can slowly discuss where the locking limit should go. But there is no debate today on whether or not to have such a barrier limit. There is a good deal to be done about it – all that time all the parties can achieve a district mandate without reaching the barrier on a national basis if one stands strongly in an electoral district, along with the Auneliste in the 1989 elections, the Left and Red Valalliance in the 1993 elections, the Left in the 2001 elections and the Coastal Party in the 1997 and 2001 elections. In my view, the conclusion is that despite the fact that the election law has recently been revised in order to have a fairer electoral system, it is difficult to see that it is fair enough, if one takes into account that the outcome of the last elections does not reflect the people's will – expressed by a majority of the votes given. I have no idea how to achieve a better electoral system, but there are many relationships that need to be reconsidered. We must always be looking for the perfect, even though we probably never get there. And let's say it's gone forward. The choice system has become better and more fair when each change has been made. But still it's not good enough, and I'm overestimated that we can improve it, so that it becomes more fair and mirrored by the voters' point of view. That must be a goal for all of us. For example, there is still a big difference, in that a voice given in Finnmark counts much more than a voice given for example. in Westfold. Here's a double. Why this discrimination against people in the populace of regions? Is it right that the area should count as much as today? It's after all the people who vote, not the land area. Another question we have to ask ourselves is if the system of adjudication mandate is accurate enough. Well, we've expanded the number of subsampling mandates and the number of magnification representatives, and it's made the electoral system better, no doubt about it. Nevertheless, the outcome of the election was not entirely fair, either from mathematics or from a democratic perspective. In parentheses, I can also mention that it seems strange that about 800 votes in a state give one mandate, while about 4,000 votes in the same state do not. Those who can vote and vote in and out will probably understand. But do the voters understand that? Nope. Once again, the selections are not interested in selections. Democracy is too important for us to squander it with a system that most people don't understand and therefore don't trust. This is our challenge. We like to boast that we have become their best democracy, and that we are world champions of democracy. If this is going to hold up, we have to be looking for the perfect thing. I believe that there is a duty to the people, not only in our own country, but also to the outside world, which looks to Norway in its development of democracy. The most democratic – based on the principle of a man, a woman, a voice – would perhaps have been to see the whole country as an electorate and to attach exactly the same weight to each voice. But is this possible in a country like Norway with 4.6 million inhabitants, and is it desirable? We should probably be looking for a system of electoral districts and still be able to get a system of nearly a woman, a man, a voice. We're looking, but I guess we haven't found the optimal yet. Elections go down, and maybe even interest in the choices. The basis for a well-functioning democracy is just active and enlightened citizens. Political apathy among a people will lead to a reduction in the rule of the people and to a deterioration in the rule of the people, and in turn it will lead to a political elite ruling the country, an elite who may distance themselves from the people and govern according to their own preferences and not according to their people's needs. Are we politicians interested in this? I'm thinking especially of the left-hand side's comments after the election in the United States in 2000, when it became clear that Al Gore had more votes behind the people than Bush. It was then demanded from Norwegian politicians on the left, with Kristin Halvorsen at the head, that the United States change the electoral laws, so that she was fair. Just listen to what was in the Evening Post on December 14, 2000: "The head of the board of directors Kristin Halvorsen, on the other hand, believes that George W. Bush has been given a poor starting point for his presidential rule." He has to do a sustainable job in order to build trust and respect," says Halvorsen, who believes that what has happened must lead to – note it – “that the United States immediately” – I underline – “changes its electoral system.” I mean to remember that the Council of State was also part of this shelf choir. We haven't quoted such quotes from Kristin Halvorsen or others on the left-hand side that meant the same thing as she did about the United States, after the election in Norway in the autumn of 2005, when the election results had the same effect here as the election in the United States in the autumn of 2000. Life and learning? Let it be said that in several choices it has been such results as we have now seen, but sometimes with a different outcome. But it doesn't make the system fairer for it. In the period 1945-1961, which was the Working Party's heyday, they had pure plurality in the Stortinget, but never plurality in the people. Similarly, at the elections in 1965, which gave a clear plurality to the Right, the Center Party, the Left and the Christian People's Party in the Stortinget, it was a plurality of the people who voted for the socialist parties. One could list several such examples, but it shouldn't be necessary. It has been written and said a great deal about the fall in electoral elections, the consequences of elections and democracy. We have a representative government here in the country, and then, in my view, it must be so that this also reflects the people's opinion and will with regard to who is to represent them. That's why my question becomes: Will a fairer electoral system stimulate greater political participation and a greater commitment to most people? I think the answer is yes, although of course there are several factors that work on this. But we have an obligation to strive for the best, so now it is that one does not reach as quickly as desired. We have an obligation to do our best, and therefore this interpellation. I hope that the Council of State will answer that it is also on the lookout, and that we can work together towards a fairer electoral system, which is close to the optimal, that it becomes as representative as it is possible to get it. As it is today, it is not representative enough. We in the Progress Party believe that all votes in elections or referendums should count equally without regard to each of the countries one has given the vote. Should we all be interested in an optimal solution, I think this is the way to go. Then the question is what others in this room want to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-30.ana.ud1900e898	Election laws, as the representative Solholm points out in his interview, have been amended several times. The new electoral system adopted in spring 2003 involves some significant changes in the allocation of mandates to the Stortinget. In particular, the rules have been amended in two areas. Firstly, we got new rules for the distribution of mandates in the counties. The scheme implies that the number of mandates has increased from 165 to 169, while establishing a systematic mechanism for adjusting the geographical distribution of mandates. Secondly, we got a new arrangement for the balancing mandates. The number of balancing mandates has increased from 8 to 19, each of which has been given its balancing mandate. What is a fair electoral system — or ‘just enough’, as the representative Solholm expressed it — could clearly be different opinions. The new election law of 2002 was adopted by the Stortinget following an extensive investigation by the Election Law Committee, where all the parties on the Stortinget were represented. Election laws shall take account of different considerations. The scope of geographical representation is safeguarded by the division into constituencies. The country is divided into 19 constituencies, because geographical affiliation is important when voters vote. With regard to the geographical distribution of mandates, we have achieved a greater geographical balance than under previous legislation. In addition, the rules have become dynamic by adjusting the allocation of mandates in the electoral districts every eight years. The principle that regional policy considerations should be taken into account in the electoral system has a long tradition in Norway, as reflected in the new electoral system. In the allocation of mandates in the electoral districts, following the latest changes to the Constitution, it follows that both the number of inhabitants and the area of the electoral district are to be counted. The use of land is a practical means of involving district and settlement factors in a systematic manner. Thus, one voice is not as much worth in all electoral districts. It says, for example. more citizens behind a mandate from Akershus than behind a mandate from Troms. It is important to remember that the different parts of the electoral legislation are related. The criteria for allocating the regional mandates could affect the distribution of the mandates of the parties. This is because the different parties do not have a steady uprising in all the electoral districts. There could also be a link between the overrepresentation of smaller populace districts and the overrepresentation of individual parties. The representative of Solholm is concerned that the electoral system should be as proportional as possible. As the Electoral Commission set out in its investigation, more efforts can be made to improve the political cohesion of the mandates. For example, the Electoral Committee points to: that a division into fewer electoral districts will produce a much more political proportional election result than with today's 19 electoral districts. In addition, the use of barrier limits, which we have in Norway in the allocation of balancing mandates, will affect the proportionality of the electoral system. We could probably choose to get rid of the barrier. It would mean a significant conversion. We could also choose to change the distribution method for calculating the mandates of the lots. Another option is to adjust the existing method of distribution. This distribution method – the modified Sainte-Laguë method – involves a certain control plug-in for large lots. This can also be changed. The question is whether the Progress Party wants to do so, as big as they have become. The adopted electoral system increases the party political proportionality of batches crossing the barrier by increasing the number of balancing mandates. At the same time, the split figure of 1,4, which in practice means that large lots are over-represented, helps balance the considerations of proportionality in the electoral system and the fragmentation of the batch system with the governance challenges it could bring. Discussions of the extent of this division go back to the 1950s. As the Committee on Election Law explains in its investigation, the divisional number, as some other matters are regulated by the Constitution, is the result of a compromise between the parties on the Stortinget. Sick about the new rules in the electoral law and the Constitution have not resulted in the election result being completely proportional, I think there is reason to stress that we now have a more proportional electoral system than before. However, it is not only the electoral system itself that determines how proportional the election result will be. The number of batches competing for the mandates, their relative geographical and relative size will be factors that can have a significant impact. Here we are at a central point in relation to the question from the representative, Solholm. Seven games are represented on Stortinget, and many more participated in the election without being represented. Given that only full mandates can be allocated, and these were allocated to seven parties from 19 constituencies at the last major elections, it is, in practice, very difficult to achieve a full proportional distribution of mandates. I see, among other things: therefore it is not very meaningful to add up the votes of the different blocks of lots, and then to assess the proportionality of the election result. Such a procedure would, in my view, only make sense if there are only two parties fighting over the mandates, while at the same time treating the whole country as one constituency. In that case, it will not be an electoral system that I want us to have. The treatment of the electoral law and the electoral provisions of the Constitution showed that the different parties in the Grand Duchy have different views on some aspects of the electoral system. It was e.g. not agreeing that the allocation of mandates in the electoral districts focused on district and settlement factors by emphasising the area in the electoral districts in addition to the number of inhabitants. On such an important issue as what kind of electoral system we are going to have, it is important that it is supported by a broad majority in the United Kingdom. In practice, this is also necessary as the main rules for the allocation of mandates, both geographically and politically, are laid down in the Constitution. The electoral system then also bears the mark of being a compromise. In my opinion, however, this has given us a good electoral system that we can live well with. I therefore do not propose to take any initiative to change the electoral system in line with the consultation of the representative, Solholm. In the end, to correct an obvious misunderstanding that Solholm's representative was harmed by referring to in his opening post, the Center Party is not a socialist party. The center part is a center part, it's always been, and it's always going to stay.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-30.ana.ud1900e932	The last thing we could have a separate interpellation debate on, at my discretion. In that respect, I thought the summary of the Council of State was good. I also don't think it's a big problem that we in our country should have constituencies, and that based on that, we have to have an electoral system that provides a most representative set of governance, so that the Storting's composition reflects as much as possible what the voters want. I understand, to the extent that the Council of State also points out that it is not so easy to get such a fair order unless one has two parties and one constituency in Norway. I see that point. And like I said, I don't have any solution to that. What matters to me is that we're going to have as fair a system as possible, so that the voters respect the outcome, trust the electoral system, and trust that when they go to the elections, they can be sure that the Storting will be put together as they please. That must be the starting point. Therefore, it disappoints me that the Council of State like to lock the door again and says that we now have so good that we do not intend to do anything more about it. I thought we should be looking. It applies to all batches. There shall be no one striking on the chest or sneaking away, as set. We're going to be looking, and we're going to try together to get into an electoral system that also engages the people, and that helps promote democracy. So it disappoints me a little bit, as I said, that one is not willing to go through this again in an own forum in an easy way to see if it is possible to make it easy. In this way, I will just quote my old ped.-teacher on the teacher's ball – he was also the principal at the school – who told us new-born pedagogues when we were going out as teachers, who were sleeping on the road: the day they are satisfied with you as teachers, they will end! It's a delivery gel that we might want to bring with us in every situation, that we're going to be looking for ever better. In this case, the electoral system is that we can get a better electoral system, which is respected, which creates a political commitment, and which the people have confidence in.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-30.ana.ud1900e947	I agree with Solholm's representative that we should look for the best possible electoral arrangements. And I'm not saying that we necessarily have a perfect electoral system now, but I think we have an electoral system with which we live very well. I also believe that changing electoral arrangements is such a demanding and comprehensive process that there is nothing we can do all the time. It is a fact that when the electoral system was last changed, we had an electoral commission that worked for over three years, and then Stortinget had a long and demanding process – which was also familiar with constitutional changes – and only the scope of the process tells me that this is something we should not do frequently. But this does not mean, of course, that we should not be able to change the electoral system in the long term. But then there's a fact in addition to this that there's disagreement about what to weigh with and not weigh with when you make an electoral arrangement. I don't think it's possible to create an electoral system that takes care of all the considerations that many of us want to pursue, and that at the same time it becomes very simple. But it's possible to do something about the locking limit, and it's possible to do something about the dividing number. The area factor we've had a lot of discussions about, and I think to a large extent that some of the representatives that Solholm is looking for are having a discussion of the area factor. The land factor was included in the last revision in order to make it possible to involve relevant rural and residential considerations in a systematic manner. It represents, in terms of regional compensation. Having a district compensation is not something strange. It is worth noting that small Denmark – geographically ‘small’ – has an area factor scheme. In the United Kingdom, extra representation is given to Scotland and Wales and to islands and other natural communities, as it is called. In Canada, the situation is the same. Here's an overrepresentation from, among other things. Newfoundland, Prince Edward Island, Novia Scotia and some other different areas. So it's not unique for Norway to attribute the fact that you live far from the center of power, significant weight.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-30.ana.ud1900e958	After the good and complementary response of the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs to the inter-pellant Solholm, I would like to stress that there is no meaningful reason to add together the votes to different blocks of parties, and then to assess the votes in relation to the proportional outcome of the elections. The 2005 result was a very even choice. None of the two blocks got over 50 pst. by the votes cast. It was a strength for democracy that others got 3.1 pst. by the votes, and that those who voted on these parties were given their opinion. The red-greens got 48 pst., and the other block, including the Liberal Advance Party, got 48.9 pst. None of these blocks could use other votes, amounting to 82,931, for their benefit. The new electoral system provided a composition of the Grand Duchy as expressed by the voters at the last major elections. The debate ahead of the decision on the new electoral system a few years ago was extensive. The decision-making of the Electoral Commission, as well as input from the Ministry, provided the Stortinget with a good basis for making the decisions. Important considerations such as the distance from central strokes and population density should be taken into account, while the changes in the number of mandates for individual counties should not be excessive. On that basis, in the view of the Workers' Party, the new electoral system represents a fair balance between different considerations. This does not mean, however, that it cannot be isolated areas to follow closely. For example, there may be grounds for considering the impact of the balancing mandates mechanism, where there will be small margins to be represented. But in this area, there is a need for experience from several choices. Valuation winding-up may also be the subject of assessment. The solution for prior polling may be such an area where the need for any adjustments may be necessary. There's every reason to stress that we now have a more proportional electoral system than before. We can live well with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-30.ana.ud1900e971	This is a very important topic. I think it was nice that the Council of State said that she was concerned that at least we had full mandates. It probably means ‘entire’ representatives. I think that's good. It's not like we're standing here talking for our sick mother. We talk from all the requests we get from the population – I'll almost say – weekly. When I talk to people outside this house, they're busy with this problem. They feel that this is undemocratic, that democracy gets a strong scratch in the paint when one voice does not apply equally to the whole country. So they say, "This is unfair!" This can not be just a progress party phenomenon, that it is only the Progress Party that is engaged in justice and receives such enquiries. We therefore have to work to get a fair solution that allows for changes to the electoral law. It can't just be that when we change the electoral law and want to make it as fair as possible, we increase the number of chairs in the hall here from 165 to 169. One vote must apply equally to the whole country. It is regrettable that the Council of State does not want to look at the electoral law again. The Progress Party has no phase in how this should be done, but this should be a continuous process that will give us the most justice possible. We represent a board based on that very thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-30.ana.ud1900e980	I would like to thank the interpellant for taking the initiative to have a debate on an important issue, which I think is taking up a lot of things. It is clear that among those who choose to use the voting rights, there is such a frustrating feeling that there is such a difference between the value of the different ballots according to where one lives in that country. Therefore, the Right's point of departure was also in the previous revision of the electoral law that one should have a better relationship between one man, one voice, or one woman, one voice, than what was the result. However, one chose to go into the compromise that was adopted, because it went in the right direction. Since this required a constitutional change, it would cause a larger batch to vote against, blocked for a change, thus preventing one from coming in the right direction. There is absolutely reason to continue this discussion, because the electoral law has been amended several times, and it will be amended several times in the future. Our starting point for the future changes that may come will be the same as that of interpellantence, which is to get a greater agreement between votes and representation in this room. The last election was a very good example of one having an election result where those who are called winners really don't have the majority of voters behind them.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-30.ana.ud1900e989	The debate we have had over the years on the electoral arrangements and the electoral law has often ended with the need to strive for an electoral system that is as fair as possible, and that is what the representatives of the Progress Party address here. Justifiably, one vote should count equally whether it is cast in Oslo or in Finnmark. That's the goal of justice. I'm going to say that there's something historyless about that statement and that kind of argument. It has been this way in this country throughout history – and then I will quote from the NOU that was the basis when the election law was last up: ‘The idea that remote and sparsely populated districts should have a stronger representation than the peoples and central parts of the country are maintained as a principle through changing electoral arrangements.’ It is a political tradition that is strong and that has been strong in the Norwegian economy and in the Norwegian political environment, that the districts and sparsely populated areas should have a relatively stronger representation. Why? Yes, because – as has been agreed politically – districts need to be guaranteed a proper representation of the Norwegian population. I dare say that over the years, through history, it has also meant a lot to the priorities of the resources of this country, and that it has been very important for us to have the pattern of residence we have in this country. Just the electoral law and the safeguarding of the representation of districts have helped to contribute to this. Of course, I can't document this, but I feel pretty sure that if you had researched the contexts here, you would have come up with that result. I am very pleased that the Council of State underlined the value of having this element inside the electoral system. I've looked at a statistic that shows us how it would turn out if we had a mathematically correct electoral system. In a election with 157 district mandates, which we have today, how would they be distributed if we were just using mathematics? It would indicate that twelve district mandates, in Sogn and Fjordane, in Møre and Romesdal, in the North Trøndelag and in the North, etc., had been transferred from these districts and to the central states such as Oslo and Akershus, i.e. a significant weakening of the representation of the districts in Stortinget. If that's what the Progress Party thinks is fair, and that we should go over to a purely mathematical system, it's really okay if it comes out clearly. In that case, it will be a breach of a long political and good tradition in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-30.ana.ud1900e1001	I have listened to the debate today, and there is one word that goes on again, namely the word 'justice'. I want to quote my mother, since there have been quotes in this debate before. Mother said many years ago, it's not fair to treat you four in the siblings equally, because you're different and you have different needs. What is so justice? There's probably a lot of academic and good, well-founded explanations about it, but my definition here in this debate is to make choices based on something you want, based on some values, and that's the choices you've made when you've taken a position on the electoral law. I will explain this in more detail, because it is not easy to say what is fair distribution of mandates between different electoral districts – it depends on where it stands. I don't think anyone with their heart can say that they have an objective answer when it comes to what is the right solution. The changes in the electoral system adopted during the previous ageing period had to be left with a majority of constitutions. The changes that were then made therefore have broad political support. That's the way it should be, it shouldn't be quick to change our electoral system. What got the most attention in the process at the time is also a topic today — how to allocate mandates among the counties. The background for those changes was that there had been quite considerable changes in the population of some counties, especially in Oslo, Akershus, Buskerud and Rogaland, but also in West Agder and Eastfold. As a result, there were several votes behind each of these counties. For the Christian People's Party, it would be unnatural to remove the district supplement or the area grant that we have had in the Norwegian electoral system since the 1800s. The mechanism focuses on geographical and regional policy issues in the allocation of mandates. The Christian People's Party still wants those states that have low population density to be in charge of the Storting. We want all parties to have a chance to be represented, including from less populous parts of the country. In the area grant discussion, the area itself is not the central one. The point is that the area captures relevant territorial considerations. There are, as the Council of State also said in its statement, several countries that have similar arrangements to ours: Denmark has it, the United Kingdom has it, Canada has it, the United States has it too. In the United States, all the states give equal representation in the Senate, whether there's 1 million or 40 million people behind the senator. The capital is not represented at all in Congress. And when Presidential elections take place in the United States, the votes count in the smallest states, for example. Wyoming, about three times that of the big states, like New York and California. I could make a long list and include France, Switzerland, Germany and Russia. The second major measure taken in the context of the new electoral system is that the number of equalization mandates increased to 19. This means that the composition of the Storing reflects more closely the size of the set-up on a country-by-country basis. In order for a lot to be given such a mandate, the lot must have many voters on a national basis. Behind each balancing mandate there are many votes from all over the country, not just votes from the county representatives being elected from. These mandates go to parties with most unused votes, so the claim that these mandates are easily purchased is incorrect. That's the opposite that actually is the case. The new electoral system is a major step towards a mathematically fair electoral system, so that party votes are counted equally – this regardless of where they were cast in the country. However, a large representation from the districts does not prevent the necessary adjustment of the distribution of mandates between the counties in order to counteract the excessive impact of population developments. It's completely possible to combine these things. That is why today's electoral law is a good and fair arrangement.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-30.ana.ud1900e1024	The debate we are now witnessing is about what is a right and democratic electoral system. It is an important and fundamental debate in every country. But I think it's strange that it's being lifted up right now, just after we've adopted and introduced a new electoral system. Of course, what is a fair distribution of mandates between the different electoral districts will depend on the eye that sees. I believe that neither the Stortinget nor a single parliament around the world with their hands on their hearts can say that it is possible to have an entirely objective view of what is fair. The law in force has been adopted on the basis of the work of a wide-ranging electoral commission, and adopted by a broadest possible majority here on the Stortinget. And it is remarkable that the Progress Party voted in favour of the electoral system they are now clearly opposed to. Our electoral system is based on a division into 19 counties and a distribution of mandates determined by population and an area factor. This is a natural consequence of us representing, of course, people, but also those that relate to their livelihoods, their ability to obtain work and output, and not least their property rights. We, as magnification representatives, have to deal with decisions on natural interventions that restrict opportunities for expansion, we deal with protective plans, and we deal with power development. In many cases, we take decisions involving interventions in areas with low population base and large areas. The people who live in these areas, of course, do not only have the right to be represented on the Storting, they also have the right to the attention of those who have been elected. There are also many examples in other countries that there is not a complete match between the population and the number of mandates in the electoral districts. Denmark, which is a small and homogeneous society, is a very transparent country compared to Norway. The mandates are allocated according to a weighted population – a sum of the population, the number of persons entitled to vote, and the area. It is not accidental that we in Norway have just had some compensation for electoral districts that are so far from the capital. The extent and distances of our country have not only created what is called communication challenges and problems, but we have also had cultural lines of conflict. What the Progress Party here is calling for is, in my view, an impossible order. It's not mathematically possible to make each vote count the same when the representatives are to be divided into 19 constituencies, at least not, that several of them have had, if we're still going to operate with whole constituencies. Secondly, with 19 constituencies, the margins will vary, and it is impossible to achieve absolute agreement between the national votes of the party and the distribution of mandates. But again, that's the sum of the consideration of the ability of the population to influence and other weighty factors that form the basis of our electoral system today. It may seem that this debate is being raised because the Progress Party believes that the margins were not on their side at the previous elections. If you mean that, there's of course reason to be dissatisfied. However, there should be reason to recall that the Party of Progress as a Party came out of the distribution of mandates, while the party that had the greatest imbalance between the number of votes and the number of mandates is RV. So you can wonder about Lodve Solholm's intention: does he think that the Progress Party should give a few mandates to the party RV? Finally, I would like to say that I am not in doubt for a second that today's composition of the Storting represents what was the people's opinion in the autumn of 2005. We have a stable majority – and a good government.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-30.ana.ud1900e1048	It is important to discuss and test the impact of as important a rule for democracy as the electoral law is. That is why it is positive that this debate should be raised. At the same time, there is a paradox in the question of the inter-pellant, because in 2005, it is likely that the choice — at least in recent times — is most consistent between cast votes and representation in the Grand Duchy. A key point in this respect is the number of votes that fall outside the scope of the calculation of the mandates. The left-hand side is well aware of that. It is we who, over many years, have held most of these votes which, because of the electoral system, were so-called rejected – mainly because of the barrier limit, but sometimes also because the inserted control plug-ins favour larger parties to a significant extent. With the 1989 balancing system, the system became somewhat fairer, and even more steps were taken in the right direction with the last electoral system adopted, which thus received its first test last autumn. This choice gave greater coherence than in the past between the distribution of votes and mandates, partly because the number of equalisation mandates increased significantly, partly because the number of cast votes was lower than the number of previous elections, a total of 2.9 pst., at the lower end of 83 000 votes. As late as the 2001 elections, the left-wing voters alone contributed almost 70 000 votes that were not considered, because we then ended up just below the barrier of 4 pst. In total, the total was 6.4 pst. by votes in 2001, excluding before the start of the distribution of mandates. Another feature of the 2005 election result is that the Workers' Party was overrepresented. Without analysing this very carefully, I think it is partly due to luck. The distribution of votes in the individual counties fell so that the Labour Party this time had many exposed final mandates, but it probably also has to do with the first split. It still gives control plug-ins. As long as we have an electoral system with district mandates and a limited number of seats in this room, it is hardly possible to achieve full agreement between the proportion of votes and the proportion of representatives. Nevertheless, there are some steps — as several have mentioned in the debate — that can be taken to seek further mathematical justice. One is to reduce the barrier limit. In Denmark, the figure is 2 pst., and there is nothing special to suggest that Norway should have the double. This is clearly a system that counteracts democratic justice. Another contribution would be to reduce the number of district mandates in favour of even more balancing mandates, which are party mandates. Here, too, one could see Denmark. Finally, the reduction of the first split would contribute to a fairer distribution. All of this was carefully assessed by the Electoral Commission, as well explained by the Council of State, which gave its position in 2001, and which provided the basis for the new electoral system. All three elements are known as the foundation law fast, so it's not an easy thing to change them again. With such a fresh new arrangement, which in total is significantly better than previous electoral arrangements, the Left does not see a new round of new constitutional changes now. However, if the experience can lead some parties to reconsider these three elements, we welcome it. It is not against us to discuss further improvements to our representative democracy. It is an important matter that the voices of the people are properly reflected in the national assembly as far as possible. If lots which may form a constitutional majority are willing to re-examine these elements, there may be a basis for a new round. The debate today has probably not given such signals. The electoral system allocates the seats of Stortinget to lots, not to blocks of lots. In the case of the inter-pellant, there may be an indication of a wish that the latter should also be taken into account. It is not easy to imagine, and an electoral system cannot relate to different forms of power politics that may not even be agreed between the parties on how to define and which may differ from elections to elections. There is clearly a point in the autumn elections that the majority of the tripartite bloc in this Chamber did not receive a majority of the votes in the elections. On the other hand, the same could have happened in the opposite direction if the Workers' Party had lost three non-socialist mandates by only 4,000 to 5000 fewer votes, and the Red Valgallianse had received a number of non-numerary votes. A coastal part at the tip of the voters could not be taken into account for income on one side or the other. The different elements of an electoral system must be in principle justified and governed by small randomness which may arise from choice to choice.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-30.ana.ud1900e1069	I thank you for a good debate. I thought that all the posts – perhaps with the exception of one – were marked by the fact that one had understood the interpellant’s point of view, which is trying to get better. It is clear that when we deal with the powers of the Powers Committee, we asked the Department to look at what Skulstad took up, that is, a subjugation mandate and how it works. And I think we have to look at that. I fully recognise that the election law – I also said that in my post, if one had wanted to right after – has improved, and that there have always been improvements. But we don't have to give in to it when we see that there might be some kind of rash that we don't want. Then I thought it would be rather foolish when the representative from SV talked about that we are historyless. That means that the representative from SV thinks that Kristin Halvorsen is historyless, because she says as far as I do now. We see question marks by the fact that the number of votes in the people does not give the result that one believes. The centre party presents it as if we are against the electoral system as she is today, and says that we voted in favour of her. Yes, we're all involved, and so is the Left. It was Hans Hammond Rossbach and Carl I. Hagen, I believe, who first suggested that we should be given a mandate in the 1980s. That time all other parties, including the Center Party, opposed it. I'm going to answer yes to the question from the Center Party – it might not be so stupid that the interpellation comes from a party that might have got some extra votes because the electoral system is not quite fair. If we had got a fair electoral system that resulted in the people's will for RV to have two mandates and the Progress Party to lose two – yes, that's the people's opinion. If Vallova were as I think it should be, that one voice mirrors one person, as far as it goes, it would be fine. But I doubt that the Center Party would have meant the same at least if it had given a mandate to the Progress Party. So I have to say that I'm disappointed, very disappointed, about the central party's posts here, which doesn't really take the interpellation seriously, probably just because he comes from the Progress Party – had the interpellation come from any other party, it might have been different. As I said at the opening after the Council of State's reply, it would have been interesting to discuss whether the Central Party has become a socialist party or not. But I have to say that the Council of State had a slightly different view than its party trap. That's why I see a hope that we'll get a review. I also thought that the other party has signaled a desire that we should always be looking for better, and that it must be the goal of all of us.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-30.ana.ud1900e1084	There was some uncertainty here as to what was the Central Party, and as to what was the Council of State. I remember the Council of State is also from the Central Party. A parliament must take care of the whole country and all aspects of society through its decisions. I think we can quickly agree on that. In this respect, the electoral system is very important. I note that there is a broad consensus in the Chamber that we will live with the electoral system we have, for a while to come. There aren't many people who have become spokespersons because we're going through a big, new process of changing the electoral system, and I'm glad. But of course, this does not preclude the possibility of coming back and looking at some elements at a later stage. I have to say that I'm going out of this discussion round a little bit curious about what the Progress Party actually means and doesn't mean, because you say here that all the votes are going to be equal. I repeat that a fully proportional electoral system will first have when one treats the whole country as one constituency and there are only two parties fighting over the mandates. I assume that the Progress Party does not want us to go in that direction, but it does not become clear what the Progress Party actually thinks and does not believe in this context. What I understand is that one is vehemently disagree with the fact that a voice from Finnmark should weigh as heavily as it does today. It is clear that the Progress Party has many requests for this. So it actually means that they're primarily concerned with the area factor. I have to say that I wonder if all these enquiries that the Progress Party receives come from Finnmark, Troms, Nordland, etc., or where they come from. In any case, I think it would be important for the rural population in Norway to take note of the view of the Progress Party. Because if it were to be so that all votes should be equal, it would have great consequences for the decisions taken in this Chamber in the future. It will be a system where District Norway is maintained in a very different and significantly less good way than today. I would also like to thank you for this round on an important topic.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-30.ana.ud1900e1106	The interpellant debate is therefore closed.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-30.ana.ud1900e1124	The need for new and profitable value creation in District Norway is great. Agriculture is under pressure from the WTO negotiations. In any case, it is important to stimulate the exploitation of the potential of agriculture. With increasing overall well-being in society and growing willingness to pay for experiences, hunting and fielding have the potential to contribute to increased value creation in District Norway. The focus on game management then needs to be changed, from focusing only on management and the most effective outsourcing to focusing on stock quality and the development of income potential. Should District Norway be able to develop its possibilities in this area, longer hunting times than today are an important prerequisite. Hunting is an essential part of Norwegian cultural history. Hunting is too many an important part of having a high quality of life, and increased hunting time will increase supply and increase freedom of choice for more people. That's a lot of deer game it's talking about in relation to hunting times, but it also applies to small game. I want to focus primarily on deer game, but I will eventually also take up a relationship associated with small game. The external hunting season limits for cervids in Norway are from 1 August to 31 January. They were established when the wild game law was introduced in 1982. Within this period, hunting has no biological adverse consequences. The Directorate for Nature Management therefore has a relatively broad framework to deal with when they are about to start work on proposals for new hunting season regulations in Norway. However, in the current hunting season regulations that expire on 31 March next year, no more than 25 to 35 days of elk hunting and 65 days of deer hunting are allowed. It is my hope that the Directorate of Nature Management will now pursue the value creation perspective it deserves when hunting times are to be reviewed. Hunting deer is a regulated game. Short periods of permitted hunting hamper the possibility of developing saleable hunting products, stressing hunters and preventing sensible game management in certain situations. It creates otherwise unnecessary conflict between hunters who want to hunt small game and deer game, because hunting terrain is often shut down for small game hunters during the big game hunt. In addition, it increases the risk of damage shooting as a result of time pressure on hunters. Our neighbouring country Sweden has, for a long time, had significantly longer hunting times. This leads to a distortion of competition in Norway’s disfavor. The short hunting seasons have resulted in a large proportion of Norway’s hunting culture aimed at ‘getting the quota out as quickly as possible’. However, if a small increase in value creation in Building Norway is to be based on hunting, the aim should be to give the local population and landowners the best possible hospitality and the highest possible value creation from each breeding permit. Hunting obviously has a great and increasing value. This consists partly of the meat yield and partly of the experience. Historically, meat yield has been the most important, both for landowners and hunters. However, with increasing welfare levels, the experience and social aspect of hunting have become increasingly important. There's the possibilities. By offering the right experiences, landowners and rightholders could generate significantly greater values than the yield of meat alone. This requires investment, and should a few profitability and focus on such investment, a longer hunting period will be important. In many local settings, there is an artificial conflict between the local hunter and the development of this type of offer. However, the experience of those who have tried to develop products in this area is opposite. There is only a limited part of the quota that is interesting for organized hunting. Local hunters are needed as guides, and they get more than enough of the opportunities to satisfy their own hunting appetite after the period of guided hunting is over. Many local hunters feel a pride in helping others get a good experience, and they get the opportunity to present and profile their local environment for an outsider in a positive way. Good management of a deer strain is not a simple affair. One would never be able to have a complete overview of the development of the tribe. This has to do with both fertility and natural departure. In addition, proper management of the strain will require hunters each year to take out a proper proportion of younger/older animals and a proper distribution between male and female. In addition, this shall be combined with human hunting where shots shall be fired exclusively without creating a risk of damaging shooting and hazardous situations. Therefore, normally a hunting team will observe many animals for each animal that can share. The increasing number of robbers has made this even more difficult. Not only does the game of prey take its share of the tribe, but it also changes the behaviour of the deer. The deer pulls out of the areas where the deer lives. Therefore, there is a continuous movement of both parties. Is a hunting team in a predatory game area unfortunate, their terrain is almost empty when the hunting team had planned to hunt. It's all for longer hunting times. In many areas, deer hunting continues to block small game hunters from the terrain. This, of course, creates conflicts that are completely unnecessary, justified by the fear that small-scale deer will “tear” away the deer game, and it has a security aspect. Longer hunting times must be combined with a requirement that the terrain be open to both small game hunting and deer hunting at the same time. Trials have been carried out with extended hunting time in deer game in some selected municipalities. In order to participate, the hunting laws in the municipalities had to commit themselves to a joint hunt. The experience both here and elsewhere is positive. In practice, this is done by avoiding large-scale and small-scale fighters from hunting in exactly the same place. Much of the same experience has been drawn in relation to ordinary walkers. Quota withdrawals and distribution of withdrawals by sex and age are important aspects of good game management. However, there are other factors that require an extension of hunting times. Accordion game — i.e. that the wild walks between summer and winter residence – is a problem of damage to younger forests in certain areas, and there is a road safety problem. It is a fact that a certain proportion of a population draws between winter and summer pastures. It may be reasonable to tax deer during those periods during which one will have the greatest opportunity to shoot animals that pull. Over time, this will result in a decrease in the number of animals that pull. The effect will be in the form of fewer traffic accidents and minor damage to the jungle. Animals pull when the snow depth becomes a big enough obstacle where they stay. The drawing problem suggests that the Directorate for Nature Management must also assess whether the possibility of January hunting should be exploited in the areas where it is relevant. Biologically, there are no factors that speak against not extending hunting times. Rather, on the contrary, there is little to suggest that deer game all over the country follows the same rhythm, and there is much that suggests that one allows local adaptation based on local conditions. The consideration of the value creation potential suggests that a hunting should be allowed earlier than in the month-end September/October. The days will be short at the end of October, and the snow may be deep. Then the interest in hunting is significantly reduced in many people who are largely looking for the experience. Should District Norway be able to develop its potential for value creation, hunting should be allowed earlier than today. Hunting should, in general, be allowed to last at least until 23 December instead of being stopped during the month-end of October/November. In those areas with significant migration problems, it must be possible to extend beyond January. The justification is given above. Society can over time generate significant benefits in terms of reduced traffic accidents and minor forest damage. The management is currently being carried out by unit owners/rightholders joining up in larger operational planning units. These units have a significantly greater understanding of the management of the game in many municipalities than the competence of the municipality itself. Decisions relating to hunting and specific hunting times locally should be entrusted to them, with the county being the overall authority. Then the administrative authority is moved closer to those who know the local conditions best and who have a self-interest in managing the strain in the best possible way. In the case of deerbuck, Sweden has a long experience in hunting even in the spring. It doesn't seem to be a negative experience with this, and it opens up for hunters to practice their passion at a time when nature is at its prettiest. It can provide significant new opportunities. When Swedish government does not seem to have negative experience of this, neither should the Norwegian have it. Rather on the contrary, it could increase both the status and the reputation of the deer hunt and thus give the steward a rise and increase the focus locally. Sweden has also opened for top hunting for large birds, male birds mostly, out of January. This is a very demanding form of hunting that gives great tension, but low yields for most. On a steady basis, this hunting activity has a marginal influence, as most of the time male gender is taken out. However, once again, the argument with regard to the interconnection of rules with Sweden should weigh heavily. Hunting and fielding is a significant potential for value creation in District Norway. This is the basis for a profitable industry that does not need grants or subsidies in order to develop. The only thing that is needed is that society gives as much freedom to local adaptation as biology and wildness allow, instead of looking for opportunities to limit this. My recommendation to the Directorate of Nature Management is that district Norway be given the opportunities. I hope the Minister for the Environment will help the Directorate for Nature Management to get clear signals on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-30.ana.ud1900e1173	The hunting time limits for game species are laid down in accordance with the Game Act of 29 May 1981 and must be seen in the context of the purpose of the Act. The Wildlife Act’s objective paragraph states that ‘The wildlife and wildlife habitats must be managed in such a way as to preserve nature’s productivity and biodiversity. Within this framework, wild game production may be harvested for the benefit of agricultural and outdoor activities». Under the law of the wild, all game is protected unless otherwise provided for by law or by law. In addition, the Game Act provides that any activity shall take account of the game so as not to cause undue suffering. This provision must be regarded as a general standard of care for how to deal with the game and is in principle directed towards all activities. Under the wild game law, hunting time decisions shall pay particular attention to the fact that the game produces a harvestable surplus and that it has resource importance. Attention shall also be paid to hunting and fishing traditions in the area concerned and to the damage done by the game. The principle of ‘breeding time’ is laid down in the law by the provision that hunting time should not be fixed during the breeding time of the species concerned. The decision-making authority in the field of hunting and hunting has been delegated to the Directorate for Nature Management. The hunting time frame for each game is established with the earliest hunting time and the latest hunting time. Hunting times are set by their own rules after a wide consultation and are periodically reviewed. The applicable hunting time regulation was established in 2002 for the hunting seasons from 1 April 2002 to 31 March 2007. The hunting time was then set a little longer than before for several game species in certain areas or throughout the country. This was true of species such as elk, deer, deer, grey goose, short-legged goose, canada goose, and reptile. The process of the next revision of the hunting season begins in the autumn of 2005. The Directorate for Nature Management aims to send a proposal to amend the Regulation at a wide consultation around 1 May this year. I know that the Directorate of Nature Management is well aware of the hunting times practiced in Sweden. The Directorate explains that it is particularly the hunting times for elk and deer that show great differences between Norway and Sweden. In 2002, Norskog, Norway’s Hunters and Fishers Association and the Outdoor Society proposed a pilot scheme extending the hunting time for elk and deer until 30 November in selected areas. The organisations provided for the simultaneous rental of small game hunting and for the sharing of large game and small game. The organisations considered that longer hunting time for elk and deer will increase public access to hunting, reduce the level of conflict between large game and small game hunters and strengthen the basis for value creation in the districts. The Ministry of the Environment considered it desirable to have the best possible data on the hunting time for elk and deer when the hunting time regulation is to be revised next time. The Ministry therefore asked the Directorate to carry out a project which would test extended hunting time for elk and deer under certain conditions in certain areas. A pilot scheme was implemented between 2003 and 2005 and there is a recent final report from the project. The knowledge of the project will be used by the Directorate for the upcoming hunting session. As I said, a broad consultation shall be carried out in the context of the revision of the hunting time regulation. The aim is to gain views from different groups in society. I am sure that the Directorate for Nature Management, which has been given the decision-making authority in this area, will make the best possible assessment for different reasons in determining the new hunting time regulation.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-30.ana.ud1900e1194	I would like to thank the Minister of the Environment for his briefing. I think it sounds positive in particular when she says that the directorate will use the knowledge from the pilot project, because as far as I have managed to pick up, the experience in the municipalities that have had this trial scheme is quite positive both in terms of reducing the level of conflict between different hunter groups and in terms of the stress factor, and for a number of other reasons that I had in my post. With regard to the general background of wildlife law, breeding time and care standards and such things, there is no disagreement among hunters and landowners in Norway, so there is no need to draw up any differences. Earlier today we had an interpellation where the Minister of Agriculture was involved and discussed, among other things. the challenges of agriculture in relation to the WTO. There were quite considerable differences in the view of how to tackle the challenge now, but the Minister of Agriculture concluded at least when he said that he had heard nothing but poverty, fewer jobs and the reduction of agriculture. – So here it’s really an opportunity for the agricultural industry to be offensive and produce District Norway in a positive way. As I understood the Minister for the Environment, we are now positive about using some experience and giving District Norway the opportunities that the external hunting times provide. I am very pleased with that, and I will follow the process further from there.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-30.ana.ud1900e1203	I can confirm that as the Council of State I want to follow developments closely and look at what conclusions the Directorate will draw. At the same time, I am concerned that we must follow adopted rules of the game. The Executive Board now has time to consult the document so that all interested parties are given the opportunity to comment before the expiry of the consultation period. I also want to stress what the representative says, that the signals given in the report are good. We see that there are few negative consequences in the areas where the trial scheme has been conducted, while also telling us that the project has probably been the most successful for the major rightholders. This is another element that the directorate must take into account in its further assessment, and it is that some walkers and some people who enjoy the outdoors and do not themselves hunt have felt some increased insecurity in the case of extended hunting. All these elements and the entire report, as the representative also said, will form the basis for the Executive Board to carry out the final evaluations and to produce documents for consultation. So I think we have a common desire to let this become the conclusion of what is best both for the districts and for those who want to hunt, and also as the basis for value creation in the districts. I think we have a common desire here.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-30.ana.ud1900e1212	It's fun to follow up when it's so positive. The Christian People's Party is concerned with a viable agriculture. It is important that we still have housing throughout the country, and then we see active agriculture as an important means of coping with this. Agriculture must remain a viable occupation. In this context, the Christian People's Party is particularly concerned with family farming. Family use must have an economic platform for diversity. We need better welfare arrangements to ensure that today's youth can see a future as a farmer. But we also need to have instruments for investment and risk capital earmarked for the development of farm diversity. The proposal for extended hunting times is a response that could be one of the measures to improve the possibility for the rural population to have future survivors of the land and forest to offer. I think it is a very exciting proposal, which must absolutely be assessed. It's good to see that the Council of State also takes it so positively. There is no doubt that hunting and renting hunting rights is an important gain for many farmers. Therefore, it may be an important measure to extend the hunting time framework in certain areas in order to increase the possibility of renting hunting rights. There are more and more people who get good income by renting out hunting rights, but even with extended hunting times, it is not possible to shoot more animals. But extending hunting beyond a longer period will be important to exploit the potential that the forest has to offer. If you have better time, you'll also have a better chance of filling the quota you've been given. Another important element is that longer hunting times can provide a better and stronger population. It can be easier to achieve a more correct set-off if the hunters have better time. Then they don't have to hurry to make sure they get any meat. A longer period of hunting will allow unsafe animals to move forward – then you have better time to wait for one to be sure is of the right size. It is absolutely essential that you have the opportunity to save the large and productive animals, while you can take out the animals that are small and less viable. Then you will get a much stronger and more robust stock. At the same time, this security and tranquillity will lead to fewer chances, and therefore fewer damage shootings. Extended hunting times may also provide easier access to hunting for the general public. If it is hunted for longer periods, there may be less pressure on prices, and there may be more possibility of renting hunting rights. This will also stimulate young people to gain access to such a great and important activity as hunting. I would nevertheless warn against the fact that an extension of hunting times could also lead to some disadvantages. It is not possible to see this just as a business policy – just look at how hard small and big game is when we get those snowy winters as a year. In addition, if they are to be stressed by eager hunters, the result may be a weakened population. Then the whole intention falls with the proposal. Therefore, it is important that good numbers and results from experimental schemes are used. The results of enlargement in Sweden must also be recorded and an important basis for setting limits. The Christian People's Party will therefore be in favour of a proposal to extend the hunting season frameworks. However, it is important to set the framework to combine better use of the potential to ensure a strong and good stock in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-30.ana.ud1900e1233	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-30.ana.ud1900e1257	In Case No: 3 and 4 there is no voting theme.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-30.ana.ud1900e1268	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word under Section 37(a) of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
