ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-23-lower.ana.ud1795e41	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the Odel Sting today – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Åsa Elvik. – Other proposals are not available, and Åsa Elvik is unanimously elected president of Odelstinget’s meeting today.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-23-lower.ana.ud1795e57	Proposal for a Law amending Law No. 2 July 2004 59 on defence personnel, the Defence Personnel Act, is aimed at reintroducing the special protection against dismissal of professional officers before the entry into force of the Defence Personnel Act on 1 January 2005. The background for this is that the Stortinge in connection with the treatment of Ot.prp. No 60 for 2003-2004 on the Law on Defence Personnel, cf. Inner. O. No 94 for 2003-2004, decided to remove the special protection against dismissal for professional orders in order to harmonise the protection of the professional order against dismissal with other officials of the State. This amendment also included employment contracts concluded before the entry into force of the Act on 1 January 2005. An overall committee acknowledges that such a conversion would involve an intervention in established professional order rights employed before the entry into force of the Act. The long-term migration process in the Defence is very demanding, not least for the employees. A central part of the modernisation of defence is the objective of a personnel structure that is balanced in terms of competence, age and degree in relation to the needs of the defence. In this process, it is important to have good dialogue and close and constructive cooperation with employees and their organisations. The Committee has noted that the Ministry is of the opinion that the further conversion of the defence may be carried out without the need to terminate the order of business. An overall committee therefore supports the proposal for this amendment and recommends that Odelstinget take a decision in line with the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-23-lower.ana.ud1795e79	The Progress Party is very pleased that the Stortinget is now reintroducing the special protection against dismissal of professional officers before the entry into force of the Defence Personnel Act on 1 January 2005. The progress party was during the treatment of Ot.prp. No 60 for 2003-2004 and Innst. O. No 94 for 2003-2004 very much concerned with maintaining the protection of professional qualifications. The Progress Party pointed out the unfortunate consequences that would result in the removal of job protection. The Progress Party continued to have good dialogue with the Joint Organisation of the Recommendation and the Norwegian Union of Officers on the challenges and problems of eradicating job protection. Unfortunately, the majority was not then of the same opinion as the Progress Party. Following the adoption of the decision to remove the protection of the position, a number of responses were received from officers and professional organisations. The organisations were fully entitled to point out the injustices of the legislative act. Today we see that the Ministry of Defence wants to correct the error it was to remove the job protection, and this of course the Advance Party wants to support. At the same time, we are grateful that the other parties have come to terms with this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-23-lower.ana.ud1795e90	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 76]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-23-lower.ana.ud1795e106	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that three replies be given to comments from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-23-lower.ana.ud1795e115	Today, Odelstinget shall make a decision that is important. Although it is not a major political issue we have to deal with today, the consequences of this matter are very important. This is an implementation proposal, a follow-up to the major proceedings in the previous period on the new dispute law. What we are going to do today is, among other things, to adopt when the law is to be implemented and part of the premises around it. The major political debate was therefore in the previous period. Today there is a formality, but there is a job that needs to be done, among other things. to put in place the date of implementation. The purpose of the dispute law and what we are going to do today is, of course, to seek a more effective and better judicial process. We also want to increase quality and, as far as possible, keep costs down, while ensuring legal certainty. Without legal certainty, it doesn't help how many good steps we take, because it's the overall one. The most important thing is that we take care of it. With regard to the proposition itself, Odelstinget will today decide that the new dispute law will enter into force from 1 January 2008. It's not that long, and that means that the Council of State, among other things. will have a hectic period ahead to make sure that it does. One of the most important things that happens when the new dispute law comes is that it is cleared up in very many other laws. If I do not remember completely incorrectly, there are about 150 other laws that are affected by this. I assume that the Council of State has not itself sat in a dark room in the basement of the Ministry of Justice and did this, but that he has had the appropriate staff to deal with it. Otherwise, I would be surprised. It is also important in that way that you get this necessary cleanup, get a similar conceptual use, and also that you make the law gender-neutral, which is one of the things you've been dealing with. It makes sense, and it probably makes it easier to use the law when you get more coordination. Another thing that is important is that you look at the role of the judge when you have introduced the dispute law. It's going to change, and we're going through this enough to challenge the judges in some areas that they might be happy about in some contexts, and less pleased about in other contexts. The challenge that nevertheless lies in this, as I see it, is the training aspect. Here it is the responsibility of the Government, together with the administration of the courts. So we're not in a position to make use of this law if we don't make sure that those who are going to use it understand it and have become involved in all the changes that are coming, and not least the purpose of it. But I assume that the Council of State is prepared to take this on a tight arm, as usual, and will follow the law in a good and sound manner. Not least, the court administration will also be an important player in this work to ensure that the courts do what we expect of them, and follow this up. Another challenge, of course, will be ICT solutions to help achieve this, and the system that the courts use. The last thing I'm going to mention in relation to the law itself is that an overall committee has asked for an evaluation in three years to look at the impact of the changes that are coming, but also to be able to make the necessary changes along the way. As far as the political process is concerned, there has been a very large degree of consensus on it all, most of all. I think that's good. So Odelstinget is very much in agreement with this law. There's been a disagreement, but it's not big. It concerns the access of the Civil Ombudsman to transparency. There is a nuance between the minority, which consists of the Advance Party and the Right, and the majority, who believe that what is today is good enough. The Civil Ombudsman himself has pointed out that he wishes to recommend a change that the majority has rejected. There has also been a call from the Conciliation and Distinguishing Committee, which has pointed out something that they consider important in relation to the evaluation. Here, too, there's a nuance between the majority and the minority. There may not be any political minefield, but it is nevertheless easy to draw attention to it. For the Advancement Party, I would like to point out that we have again shown that we are against the rule. We're repointing it here. We believe that matters relating to child protection and the taking-over of care of others should be dealt with by the ordinary judicial system rather than by means of an examination. With this, I take up the minority proposal – and say thank you for me.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-23-lower.ana.ud1795e143	The representative Jan Arild Ellingsen has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-23-lower.ana.ud1795e146	It was a milestone for the Norwegian judiciary when Odelstinget adopted a new dispute law last year. Old civil law was in many ways out of date and did not reflect the situation, among other things. The power investigation came to the conclusion, at least as a partial conclusion, that we are in the process of legalizing many of the problem areas of society to a much greater extent than what we have done in the past, and that we are referring people to the judiciary in order to resolve their conflicts to a much greater extent than we have done before. The matter we are dealing with today is a follow-up to the Stortings’ decision of 17 June 2005 on new dispute law. On the part of the Workers' Party, we are pleased that the decision taken today represents a substantial cleanup in a number of laws and will contribute to the fulfilment of one of the main intentions of the new dispute law, namely that there will be a faster, more efficient and, not least, cheaper trial in the judiciary, which will therefore become more fair and accessible to ordinary people. The rapporteur has given a good introduction to what the Committee proposes to Odelstinget. One of the issues raised by the rapporteur was the point of training. It is important that those who are required to administer the law receive adequate training, and this has been a strong wish both from the Judicial Association and the judicial administration. Therefore, I must say that I am very pleased that the government has proposed 17.5 million. kr in the 2007 draft State Budget for the introduction of new dispute law, so that training can take place in a quality manner. With regard to the input from the Conciliation and Dispute Committee, the majority of the Committee – Workers’ Party and SV – shows that many of these recordings were carefully assessed in the context of the discussion of the dispute law during the previous period. We will also point out that it is one of the main points of the evaluation adopted after the law has worked for three years, to see if there is a need for adjustments. As the rapporteur pointed out, there is a great deal of agreement between the various parties on this matter. What is surprising is that the Progress Party and the Right Almost Over the Table have chosen to propose radical changes to the Civil Ombudsman's right to information. I am uncertain whether the Progress Party and the Right see the consequences of their own proposal. The opposition's proposal to remove existing restrictions on the Civil Ombudsman's right to information, inter alia: means that the Civil Ombudsman shall have unlimited access to information relevant to the security of the State or the relationship with a foreign country. Such information may not even be accessed by the Supreme Court without the permission of the King of the Council of State. Such a comprehensive proposal should not be adopted without the proposal being subject, inter alia, to: consultation and thorough legal proceedings. That is why I am surprised that the Right Party and the Progressive Party are taking so lightly on a proposal which, in its utmost consistency, may have an impact on the security of the state or the relationship with the foreign state.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-23-lower.ana.ud1795e161	The rapporteur – let me use one for the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights – has, in an exemplary way, gone through the proposals for amendments that are also on the right. I'm just going to pick up the one point that we disagree about. This is a point which, as the rapporteur said, may not play a major practical role. It's important in principle, and it can have practical consequences, but then with the opposite sign of what previous speeches were about. When the Civil Ombudsman writes to Stortinget twice and makes it clear that the proposal for amendments to the Civil Ombudsman Act is based on a misunderstanding of established practices, it is actually quite serious. It does not happen often and should be taken seriously. To put it this way: in the choice between adding the understanding of the Civil Ombudsman or the understanding of the department bureaucracy, the conclusion should be quite as clear, in the same way as the Storting as the body of the Riksrevision in terms of access to documents. I think I heard a lot of the same wording that was drawn up when we dealt with the National Audit Act, and that, for example. SV was very busy not to mention when one was outside the government offices, but as the then opposition party, Right, laid the groundwork and made sure that there was a law with which the National Auditor and the National Auditor themselves were satisfied. Otherwise, we could actually risk that there had been a crisis between the state powers in that matter. Some and everyone may need the information that either the Civil Ombudsman or the National Audit Office receives from the departments when, for example: are in a minority in the main hall, but may have to act on behalf of people who have not reached through. I therefore ask, for the sake of order, in the light of the history of this case and a similar case when it came to the Riksrevision, SV to clarify something in its next article. One is: does SV assume that the Civil Ombudsman, in the same way as the Riksrevision in principle, will receive the documents he himself considers necessary to carry out effective control on behalf of the Stortinget? And: Will SV and the Government base the Civil Ombudsman's established practice on understanding the law? I see no reason for this to be perceived as particularly surprising to come along now, above the table. You had plenty of time to review the proposal, and you haven't come up with any answers. All of these statements that come now had the opportunity to be included in the proceedings. With regard to the argument on the security of the state and some of the considerations raised, this suspiciously reminds us of exactly the same argument that came from some bureaucrats when we dealt with the National Audit Act. It reminds most of all of what we got back at the time. Fortunately, the majority made sure that it was not adopted when the National Audit Act was passed. I hope that the SV, and perhaps the Workers' Party, have the courage to actually base a principle that it is the Civil Ombudsman himself who will decide what is necessary for him to carry out his duties, in the same way that the Riksaudition itself considers what is necessary for it to carry out its control task.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-23-lower.ana.ud1795e174	Most of it has been said, both from the rapporteur and from Anne Marit Bjørnflaten, about the background to the amendments to be adopted here. It's rare, I have to say, to see so many legislative amendments in a document and then get notes on them. It is a sign that this applies primarily to technical changes as a consequence of the dispute law, especially if one looks at the changes proposed in the Law on Stranding and Vrag – written with g – in the Law on Infidelity, in the Law on General Civil Punishment, in the Law on State Control of Ship's Merit etc. and in the law of a dispute and criminal proceedings. What we also see, and as I think is interesting, is how we have to look for words that go back to the beginning of 1900, and that have nothing to do with this matter. We see the need to evaluate new language patterns in old laws. It must be quite demanding both for the government and for the Storting if it comes to current proposals from individual representatives, to find out how words were written at different times, with the challenge it might be to clean up in the long term. But as I said, it is on the side of this case. Then I register that André Oktay Dahl asks SV about the right of access to documents. In the extension of what both the Right Party and the Advance Party propose, I tried to fake what would have happened if you really would have accepted the proposal without having it evaluated: in these days, mulla Crickets appear in the media. It's actually the Advance Party, of all the parties in this big crowd, that gives the best mule the opportunity to contact the Civil Ombudsman to get all the documents on the table, in order to gain insight into how the secret services handle his case. I would like to believe that if Per Sandberg has not previously been involved in this matter, he will at least be when he discovers what the Progress Party here facilitates. This is an example of a kind of thing where you come up with something tricky and then let's not think about it. When André Oktay Dahl calls for reasons from the majority, while they're under pressure, black on white, I don't think it's very good to think about how to manage to convince the opposition that they shouldn't promote foolish suggestions – excuse me, the expression 'bad' may be unparliamentary, but at least the reason is given. I want to ask Oktay Dahl to read that reason in the vote from the majority.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-23-lower.ana.ud1795e185	The representative, Mr Ballo, is quite right in saying that 'bad' is not a parliamentary expression, but the President takes note that the representative himself corrected it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-23-lower.ana.ud1795e188	I will comment on three points on the matter. The first relationship is the fact that we get such a thorough cleanup in the law as the whole document produces. This means that everything that is to be done on a practical and legal basis has been facilitated with regard to the entry into force of the dispute law reform in Norway. It's an incredibly important reform, not only because it's going to simplify everything on the civil side in court proceedings, but also because it's fixing the layman relationship that exists in our Conciliation Council, which becomes low-threshold. We also know that the whole of the reform is important because of the proposals for small-scale and group action. There are at all very important measures in the law when it comes into force. There is therefore every reason to be as impressed as the representative Ballo and everyone else, and to agree that once you have to simplify that much, you have to clear the legal landscape, and that is what the Ministry of Justice has done. It is very good that the Storting can adopt the changes to the law today. The second relationship is probably easy to recognize and then challenging. This is the question of how to get enough schooling, and good enough schooling, among our judges, and, secondly, get enough modern procedural equipment to implement everything the law provides for by factual simplifications. I am most kind enough to wish the Council of State luck with the inner course on this path. I'm not going to say more about it than to say it that way, because it's clear that the schooling of our judges, the schooling of those who are going to participate in the process, and who are going to go into mediation situations on a large scale in relation to what they're used to, require something. So we know, through the mediation trials we've had in Norwegian courts, that they've been positive. We've learned from it. I am also pleased that in the law we confirm the position and position of the Norwegian Conciliation Councils. So these assumptions, which I am of course convinced that the Minister of Justice will fight for both training and technical equipment, are important. With regard to the third point, the Civil Ombudsman, I will undoubtedly vote in favour of the proposal promoted by the minority, but I assume that the matter should be dealt with in such a way that there are no unintended consequences for the security of the state. I will not, unlike the representative Dahl, define the security of the state solely as a bureaucratic comment. I'd like to say it like this with some experience from the field. I also don't understand that there's something you're going to use outlaws, because it's a terrible weapon of power to strike down people with. I'm saying it out of thoughtfulness. I have now formulated that I want the Civil Ombudsman to have access, but it is not my intention that that access should in any way extend under any of the conditions laid down in other legislation, including the Foreign Affairs Act, as regards the security of the State. In other words, I do not want to be involved in anything that could invalidate the judgement of Norwegian courts in these areas. So I don't want to get involved in anything like this. raises the civilisation of the court of law yesterday, to make it very precise. I guess the Right and Advance Party are of the same opinion. I won't ask them to comment on it, but I guess so. I'd like to do that. So I'm not going to use the tone that currently exists, and I'm going to distribute labels. There's a little too much of that right now, I think. We get to stick to the objective of promoting what we believe in, and presenting our premises. Finally, it is a historic day today. What we've done is a milestone. The last time it was a fundamental reform of the dispute law was before the Second World War. So it wasn't just winter and spring, it was an infinity before we figured out what's actually happening today. So even though it's not very popular in the staging room and in the press room, you're probably listening intensely over the Internet. It's a big and good day for Norwegian consumers and most people in this country, because this is a reform that will make people easier access to legal sources, legal aid and courts. As you can see, the matter is of great importance. It will make it more comfortable for us ordinary citizens if, for some reason, we should get into conflicts, by making it easier to solve them in the best possible way.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-23-lower.ana.ud1795e203	The Ministry of Justice's proposal for legislative changes in Ot.prp. No 74 for 2005-2006 is a direct follow-up to the Law of 17 June 2005 on mediation and redress in civil disputes, the Arbitration Act. The purpose is to make necessary changes to other laws in connection with the entry into force of the dispute law. It may seem technical, perhaps bureaucratic and somewhat boring, but it is all the more important. In this regard, it has not been intended to carry out a general review of procedural rules in other laws that need to be amended as a result of the dispute law – that is also said for the purposes of the Right’s proposal. So it hasn't been the purpose of this round to go into real change. This is mainly due to the fact that the former government and the big deal that dealt with the dispute law did a very good job and laid down a very good framework and good rules for the functioning of the dispute law. The government is concerned that this is a reform that should be implemented as quickly as possible and that resources should be allocated so that it can become effective in the population. I am therefore pleased that the Judicial Committee is largely in agreement with the proposed legislative amendments. There is a significant work behind a proposition like this. When justice politicians deal with other urgent tasks, you should know that there are other things that don't look so good. This is such a matter, but it is, as I said, the more important. In the proposition, I have agreed that the dispute law should be implemented from 1 January 2008. I am pleased that the Justice Committee supports this date of entry into force. The Law of Disputes involves a comprehensive and important reform, and it is therefore of great importance that it be implemented as soon as possible. The main objective of the reform is to provide faster, cheaper and more equitable dispute resolution for the parties. The Law of Disputes facilitates the amicability of several cases outside the courts and facilitates access to the courts when a judicial decision is required. These are vital questions about people's access to the justice system in order to resolve conflicts. Maybe they're as important as the Great One soon, I hope, will decide what kind of legal aid we're going to give the people. I believe it is important that all parties to a dispute have a real and equal opportunity to bring a case before the courts. It is fundamental that the parties should be able to reach an amicable settlement in accordance with the legal provisions. A cheaper judicial process is essential for effective judicial access and the dispute law shall make the process cheaper for the parties. At the same time, the courts shall continue to be the safest and most qualified dispute resolution body we have. The main step towards a faster and cheaper process is to adapt the procedure to the nature and scope of the case. The time and extent of the proceedings shall be proportionate to the importance of the case. Here, the new system of a simpler small-scale process will be of great importance, as will a more active case management by the judges. The aim is for the courts in small and medium-sized cases to spend significantly less time on each case. The rule on group action is also important in order to facilitate access to justice. Access to group actions will contribute, by itself, to amicable solutions in accordance with the legal rules for large groups of equal and sometimes small cases. In order to examine whether the reform achieves the intended main objective, a outline has been drawn up for the evaluation to be carried out three years after the entry into force of the reform, on which the rapporteur was concerned. The Ministry will prepare an evaluation with a view to some elements related to the objectives of the reform: reducing the need for redress, reducing the legal threshold, reducing the costs for the parties, speeding up the process, enforcing substantive law, fair and reliable judicial procedures and more effective judicial procedures. I have noticed that the committee is pleased to receive such an evaluation after the law has worked for a while. In this way, I am pleased with the input, the angle and, in so far, the handling of the matter here in Stortinget. It helps us quickly to put this reform into practice effectively. I also have to admit that next year's government budget has taken the initiative and made proposals to – and I expect that we will have a broad consensus – that next year's courts will be allocated to resources, nearly 18 million. kr, e.g. in order to ensure the presence of the representative of Dørum, the question of training in the courts and of upgrading, inter alia. of the computer equipment to handle this law. It's challenging, but I'm sure we'll get to port. I want to give honor not only to my own department, but also to the court administration, which has contributed well in this process.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-23-lower.ana.ud1795e222	The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-23-lower.ana.ud1795e226	First I get to give praise to the department for doing a great job in all areas except one point we disagree about. Otherwise I am glad that the representative Dørum chose to interpret me in a positive sense. We are all concerned with the security of the state – the question is whether it is interposed on as a legal argument to be sure that it seems heavy enough to cover other considerations that some people have to take. But when it is said that the proposal from the Right and the Advance Party, which is also supported by the Left, appears to be 'bad' and that it is only to read in the vote, I have to say that I do not see one single place in the vote that the majority has commented on the proposal and made some of the arguments put forward here by the representative of the Bjørnface. Then I think not only that one should withdraw the non-parliamentary expression ‘bad’, but in fact also that one has not written a response and not made anything that explains why one is against this proposal in the vote. Having said that, I would like to say that I hope that the representative of Ballo here today can state that the principle must be that the Civil Ombudsman himself must decide what is necessary for access to documents, in the same way as the National Audit Office. If it can be established that that principle will apply in any investigation into our question, we are willing to re-examine the proposal for a transmission proposal. If we can get a confirmation that that's the case, we'll do that. In fact, the National Auditor and the Civil Ombudsman are not activists who have access to documents for fun – and are leaking to the public. There is a tendency to mix the issue of public transparency with the issue of access to documents. There are, in principle, two very different questions that must not be confused. They have a standard of caution in relation to the tasks they are assigned to do on a professional basis, based on the laws and instructions they themselves have, and developed and established practices. So you shouldn't interfere with a lot of other questions that have nothing to do with them. So I again challenge SV to clarify whether you want to base the principle that has always been in force until now, as the Civil Ombudsman has been made aware of if you want to stand by it. If you stand by it, we're willing to turn this into a transmission proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-23-lower.ana.ud1795e237	So sad that the Right chooses to turn this debate into this – because that's not what it's about at all. Now we have heard the representative of Dørum, we have heard the case rapporteur make a good contribution, and we have heard other representatives talk about the importance of this reform – and then you make this a ‘higher’. I am not prepared by the Government to respond to the issues raised by the representative Dahl, in order to meet his desire to convert this into a transmission proposal. It is the problem of the Right that this proposal has been promoted. Then you have to accept that it's going to be downgraded, and that's good reason for it. We perceive that the work now done in relation to the dispute law is legislative changes that should have no real significance. To the extent that there is a desire to address substantive changes in the relevant legislation, which is extensive, including the Ombudsman’s law, a law process should at least be subject to a sound legal process. After hearing Mr. Dørum's comments and his reservations about how this proposal is to be understood, I would say that it is clear that there is a need here to have a thorough legislative process. As far as the right of civil officers to obtain information is concerned, in the government's view, there is no change in the real picture of the Ombudsman's legal situation with the change proposed by the previous government in the dispute law, and what we are now proposing. So there is the status quo in relation to the position of the Civil Ombudsman. The preparatory work of the Ombudsman’s Act stated that the right of the Civil Ombudsman to obtain information is not limited to information of importance as evidence in the matter, as is the case for the courts, but concerns all information the Ombudsman needs in order to carry out his duties. I believe that this bill does not change such a legal position, and that is what matters to the Government. To the extent that changes to the ombudsman’s legislation are sought, as proposed here, at least the consequences should be examined. for information relating to confidentiality which the Ombudsman receives and to the extent to which it can be passed on to any requesting party. That is not well enough explained in relation to this proposal. That is a good reason, on this occasion, to vote it down, alongside the fact that it does not actually concern the matter that we are dealing with, namely one of the biggest reforms in the civil justice system in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-23-lower.ana.ud1795e250	Several have indicated that the work done here is complicated because it affects many laws. It has required a careful review, and a lot of time has gone by. It's the impression that should get stuck when you're done with the debate here today. It is a major and important matter that is put in place in relation to new dispute laws and in relation to corrections in a number of other laws. Then there is a problem which in many ways becomes an additional debate, namely questions relating to the Civil Ombudsman's right of access to documents. I can agree that you should use another expression. What I'm concerned about is that it's problematic if you make new rules without ignoring the consequences of it. You have to have the government to look at. An obvious consequence of treating the Riksrevision and the Civil Ombudsman in exactly the same way is that it is said to be tantamount to dealing with individual cases with the need to have a greater understanding on behalf of the main institution we have in Norway, namely the National Assembly. It is obvious that the Riksrevision and the Civil Ombudsman have such different roles that the approach to obtaining evidence must be different. There is SV's reason not to support this proposal. However, we are aware that the Civil Ombudsman must have access to all the information necessary for the proper handling of the case. What the Council of State has also assured here is that the consequences of the law are a continuation of the civil ombudsman's rights today. When it is clarified, I think it may be surprising – and it may not be possible to use unparliamentary language – that you still want to go further than a proposal you do not overlook the consequences of.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-23-lower.ana.ud1795e259	André Oktay Dahl has spoken twice in the debate and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-23-lower.ana.ud1795e262	There was a hint of gentlemen's art from Olav Gunnar Ballo, so I'm going to reproduce it – that is, by making our proposal for a transfer proposal, assuming that the principle is clear. But all of the reservations made by the representative Dørum are fully valid for me and the right, because there is a well-known balance that needs to be made in this kind of situation. With regard to the matter itself, the Civil Ombudsman believes that this raises doubts in relation to the principle of his ability to exercise control. We're serious about that. But we are therefore making the proposal for a transfer proposal and coming back to this matter in an appropriate way in Stortinget, and we also assume that the government will take over the information that has emerged from the Civil Ombudsman, in the further work on the Civil Ombudsman Act at a later stage.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-23-lower.ana.ud1795e269	The President has to admit that he is uncertain whether the representative of Dahl can make a proposal that is drawn up by another representative, for a transmission proposal, perhaps the representative who took up the proposal can sign up for debate – Jan Arild Ellingsen will now have the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-23-lower.ana.ud1795e272	At the President's request, I would like to say that I support the Dahl representative's proposal to turn the proposal into a transmission proposal. - Are we within the rules now?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-23-lower.ana.ud1795e277	The representative, Mr Ellingen, then referred to the proposal put forward in the debate as a transmission proposal. The President cannot see that more people have signed up on the list of speakers, and Case No. So 2 is over. [[Footing, see page 76]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-23-lower.ana.ud1795e295	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 65 minutes and that speaking time be allocated as follows: Working Party 20 minutes, Progress Party 15 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party, Christian People's Party, Center Party and Left 5 minutes left. In addition, the President will propose that three replies be given to the main speakers and five replies from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President proposes that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It’s to look at as affirmative.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-23-lower.ana.ud1795e306	The most important thing in this amendment is that we get a tool so that we can end untimely options. We are concerned about the development of options and rents. We would therefore like to increase shareholder control, openness and transparency in the processes of wage fixing. We mean that the change in the law facilitates longer-term and principled assessments in companies when it comes to the pay policy of the tenant. It is gratifying that there is a comprehensive committee behind the legislative changes that provide the General Assembly with the tool they need to avoid untimely option agreements and focus on untimely lessee wages, pension agreements and parachutes. It is also important to point out that, in the statement of guidelines for remuneration for the next accounting year, and in the basis for the policy of remuneration that has been pursued during the previous accounting year, there should also be mention of post-paid contracts/valves and pension agreements, not only wages and salaries. All of this is an intensification of the current legislation, an intensification we welcome. When it comes to legal regulation or not, the plurals think it's right to regulate the law to give the basic principle sufficient impact, and it's an important expression of society's demands and values. The recent social debate also reinforces the need for legislative regulation. The Committee goes beyond the original two-point legislative proposal. The one thing goes on a little bit of a simplification. One does two things in the proposition. First, one reduces the reporting obligations of daily leaders to the board from every three months to every four months. The second is that an easy reporting obligation coincides with the deadlines for VAT and employers’ taxes. In addition, a reporting obligation removes all the reporting obligations for the small companies. From now on, any non-daily leased company will skip reporting obligations altogether. We do this with a law change in the stock laws. So one of the small companies, where there is often the same person who is in the board and who acts as a daily leader, let go of reporting to itself. There have been some recordings of other simplifications during the hearing, but these are in the Ministry of Finance's field, for example. changes in accounting law. We've only been dealing with changes in the stock laws. The second item on which the Committee is concerned is the subject of scrutiny. The Committee asks that the rules for public equity examination and the share laws be reviewed with a view to improving the ability of the reviewers to carry out their mission, even if the company or central trustees do not wish to cooperate or try to avoid scrutiny. It is important that the stock laws make their point in this area to prevent unfair business practices. The Committee believes that there should be legislation to ensure general confidence in the legal and orderly conduct of companies and businesses. The majority of the Committee, the members of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left, would point out that the aim of the gender representation rules in the board of public limited-liability companies is primarily to ensure that the competences of society are exploited in an appropriate way. One must make use of the resource of women’s occupational competences, based on educational levels and professional experience for women. The new rules on gender balance in the board of directors of public limited-liability companies have already led to a significant improvement, from 5.4 pst. women in 2002 to current 21.4 pst. I also want to say that today it's 30 pst. women in the lease of the 100 largest companies. That's good. A comprehensive committee is further designed to open up the King of Self-Actions to counter coercive resolution if essential societal considerations so warrant. I would like to make it clear that this directive covers all coercive resolution reasons, not only in terms of gender representation. When bankruptcy occurs, all parties agree that it is an advantage to have laws and systems relating to economic problems in business, and that one has other laws and systems with a view to finding solutions for individuals. The purpose of the Debt Regulation is to ensure that a person with serious debt problems is given the opportunity to regain control of his economy. The purpose of bankruptcy is to stop loss-making and distribute assets for the benefit of the creditors through an orderly winding-up process, not to reorganise liabilities for the benefit of the debtor. The members of the Labour Party and of the Socialist Left Party are concerned that individuals’ indebtedness on their part should not be perceived as a lifelong trap of poverty. We want to praise the Government for the actions that have been or have already been implemented to help people who come into such a difficult situation. When reference is made to "Chapter 7" in American law, we would point out that that system is worse than the one that Norway has in the law on debt. Among other things, only some of the liabilities are deleted - not all liabilities. If an e.g. if there is a residual tax from the previous year that has not been paid, there will be no personal bankruptcy after Chapter 7. Another point that has taken up the Committee is the strong growth of the Norwegian branch of foreign registered enterprises, NUF. It is regrettable that the Right Party and the Advance Party do not benefit from the condition so that a collective committee could have expressed its opinion on this matter. There would have been a stronger signal out there, because in reality, there is little inconsistency between the plurality and the minority in the committee saying about NUFs. NUFs are companies registered abroad, usually in England, although they have all the operations in Norway and have their head office here. Traditionally, one Norwegian law suggests that a company with its head office in Norway should be regarded as a Norwegian company, they should register as a Norwegian company, and they should comply with Norwegian company law. The Court of Justice of the European Union has held that the right of freedom of establishment means that the companies themselves have the right to choose the place of registration and, consequently, the ‘nationality’ under company law. Apart from the purely company law regulation, where the NUFs comply with the law of the country of registration, the NUFs must comply with Norwegian law in the normal way. There has been a strong growth in the creation of NUFs, and today the number in Norway is 18 000. The growth is special in the construction industry. The Labour Party and SV see that many of the measures will come via the Ministry of Finance, and therefore ask the Ministry of Finance, in cooperation with the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Industry, to resolve what problems may arise as a result of the fact that the company chooses the NUF as a form of company, what requirements should and can be imposed on these companies in Norwegian law to address these problems, and what is the reason why the use of NUF increases. We would stress that action must be taken to avoid undermining national legislation, to avoid tax evasion and to stop unprofessional operators. In the same legislative change, the red-green take a cap on options and ask for stricter guidelines for Norwegian companies operating abroad. The Labour Party and SV ask the Government to develop national guidelines for corporate social responsibility abroad, during this corruption and lubrication. It is sad that the rest of the committee is not busy with this and will not be supported. Another aspect of social responsibility rules is that Norwegian companies generally behave well and follow the Norwegian guidelines abroad, while all the companies they are going to compete with do not. There may be a rapid distortion of competition when not all enterprises operating in the same country behave equally. We also mean that the Norwegian companies will see it as an advantage to have a regulatory framework for what they can or cannot do when there are doubts. The aim is to set international standards and to set minimum standards in the long term when they relate to the rights of companies abroad. We start in Norway, but the goal is, as I said, to get to international rules. This must be done by implementing the rules in EU or UN legislation. All of this, of course, is to be done in cooperation with the industry. In conclusion, I would like to say that the Labour Party and the Socialist Left have as objectives for the justice sector, among others. clarifying more and reacting more effectively. That is why, after an overall assessment, we have said that we cannot at the same time prioritise the use of the money and resources on a new company law commission or on own stock supervision.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-23-lower.ana.ud1795e357	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-23-lower.ana.ud1795e360	There has been a pretty big debate on this issue in the media. The representative points out that the majority is now to take more control over state-owned companies. I want to remind her that it is in Innst. S. No 138 for 2004-2005 — from the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee — on the control by the National Audit Board of the government’s management of the state’s interests in companies, banks, etc. [[Department's]] for 2003, was a proposal from the Progress Party and SV, which read: ‘The Government asks the Government to establish guidelines for the employment conditions of the managers on which the State is to govern its ownership of companies and undertakings in which the State is a full or a partnership.’ Does the representative not see that if the Labour Party had agreed to the proposal of the Progress Party and SV at the time, we would have avoided the problems we have today – and very much of this debate would have been avoided?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-23-lower.ana.ud1795e370	No, I don't. We're dealing with stock laws. Then, in the ownership message from the Government, there will be clear guidelines for what we think will happen in the individual company. We can't say anything about that in general, it has to be related to the individual company. We'll get back to this in December. When it comes to the other changes we are dealing with today, we have gone through so that a fixation of rents should be advisory and not binding. The Progress Party has also joined in favour.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-23-lower.ana.ud1795e379	No more words have been asked for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-23-lower.ana.ud1795e382	It is strange that there is so much emptyness in this room when we know that there has been a heated debate in the last few weeks about options in a limited liability company. There have also been trends in pure bullying by leaders in Norwegian companies. We must not forget that Norwegian companies are in the world class. In order to get qualified managers maybe pay and agree crucially, but I think we can all agree that abnormally large options are unfortunate. What is at the heart of this proposition is strengthening the ownership role, clarifying the division of labour between the owners, the day-to-day management and the board, and non-discrimination between shareholders. The active substance is information — raising awareness — and its purpose is to strengthen confidence in listed companies. For the Progress Party, the most important thing in this case has been to give the real owners more power, and then we mean the shareholders. Then there's a chapter on gender representation in the board. We're advocating that there are objective qualifications that should be decisive, and not gender. The State shall not use large resources and detailed legislation to protect the rights of healthy adults, intelligent and well-trained people. There is a great deal of international attention around these Norwegian special provisions, and a meeting does not go far beyond this. Rather, we should ensure that companies, both public and private, are given viable conditions for value creation. If we look at the educational pattern today, the girls take higher education, and they apply for some leadership positions. I, and the Progress Party, are therefore fully convinced that, over a period of five to ten years, we see many more women in the regimes, but there is no quota to be allocated. We know that today the companies are able to avoid this. If you have an ASA, you can transform it into an SE. This allows a transfer of the head office out of Norway, thus avoiding that provision. The Progress Party believes that the time has come to establish a Company and Commercial Law Commission. This will ensure user involvement in the regulatory process and will help Norway to have up-to-date and modernised company law legislation, which is competitive in relation to our competitors. I have to say I am amazed at the comment of the majority on the NUF. The majority are concerned about the strong growth in the establishment of NUF companies. Yeah, well, why have we gotten such a strong growth? We can't stop this development. If the majority tightens up, the companies only establish the head offices abroad. Under the WTO Agreement, they have the right to set up a department in Norway. No, the solution here is to make everyday life easier for small and medium-sized enterprises in Norway. It must be an objective to establish a business in this country. The Storting asked the Government in connection with the treatment of the Innst. S. No 36 for 2004-2005 to investigate access to personal bankruptcy with debt cancellation following the pattern of the American Chapter 7 bankruptcy. The Progress Party will point out that the arrangement we have today is good. Nevertheless, a system of personal bankruptcy could give a person a new one if the debt were to be extinguished. But then you have to have the quarantine. You often see that more people become slaves of debt and give up. It is with great amazement The Progress Party sees that the majority now meddles in the recognition that ever-increasing charges affect those who have at least before. The Progress Party proposes to investigate a system of personal bankruptcy from a social and poverty perspective. We ask the Government to come back to this in a message of poverty. Finally, there are few in the Chamber despite the fact that this matter has created a great debate in the media. The Judicial Committee may not have the very great ownership of this matter, but that is after all we are dealing with it. I now see to it that the shareholders have greater power, and that all the shareholders, both large and small, exercise ownership. I'll take up the suggestions from the minority.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-23-lower.ana.ud1795e408	The representative Solvency Horne has drawn up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-23-lower.ana.ud1795e413	I see from the notes of the Progress Party that they find it unimaginable that the public uses great resources and an ever more detailed law to preserve healthy adults, intelligent, well-off people's dishes. Well, it's actually those who want a private law for small corporations. They are the ones who want to create their own company law commission – measures that are very resource- and cost-intensive. The party of progress says that they have full confidence that women and men know their needs and rights and can sustain these themselves, that any other way of thinking is a violation of the individual's integrity and ability to make own decisions, and that one should rather ensure that all activities, both public and private, get viable conditions for value creation. Does the Progress Party really think that quotaing by, for example, The teaching ball, in which men are being auctioned, violates the integrity and ability to make own decisions? And believe the Progress Party that getting more women into control means that businesses don't get viable anymore?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-23-lower.ana.ud1795e428	The party to the progress is in favour of objective qualifications which are essential to ensure that a person is given a steering position, not sex. For the Progress Party, it is also important that there are women – with their views – in a government, but it must be entirely up to the companies themselves. One shall not be allocated to a board of directors. As far as the representative refers to simplification and that the Progress Party is involved in making everyday life more difficult for small and medium-sized enterprises, I would just like to refer to that Document No. The 8-proposal that was being discussed in ours. There was talk of simplifying the legislation for small and medium-sized enterprises, which the Labour Party voted against.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-23-lower.ana.ud1795e436	The representative Horne has now repeated several times that there are objective qualifications to be based on, and not sex. The Progress Party also proposes removing the provisions on gender representation. When one tries to reflect on the concept of objectivity, and if sex is not to be an objective criterion, there is reason to ask for a closer deepening. It's hard to imagine anything more objective than people's sex. I would like to ask Solvency Horne: if the type of criteria is not to be based, what kind of objective criteria is that of the Progress Party? Can the Solvency Horn briefly describe the objective criteria for getting qualified applicants to a position whose gender is not an objective qualification?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-23-lower.ana.ud1795e443	In the case of the Progress Party, it is the individual’s qualifications that must determine whether to hold either a position or a seat in a Governing Board. When one sees the developments that are taking place today, one sees that the girls are taking higher education, that the girls are more often applying for leadership positions. We think it's going to become more and more so that women in the future are looking for leadership positions and being represented in the boards. And we're completely opposed to that there should be quotaing into the boards.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-23-lower.ana.ud1795e448	What Solveig Horne here describes is not objective criteria. These are highly subjective criteria. It is a description of how to subjectively assess applicants against each other in terms of qualifications, without one can objectively point out that someone here has a right that others do not have. So I haven't been given an answer to my question about how to objectively substitute for something that's quite obvious: whether you're male or female, you're going to be able to guarantee women's representation. What is the case in a number of governments is that there are no women there. Now, when the Progress Party will reverse the system that Ansgar Gabrielsen took the initiative, it will only mean that men too fully enter the regimes again. Once again, I would like to ask: what kind of objective criteria is it that the Progress Party will use, if not gender as an objective criterion should be emphasised?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-23-lower.ana.ud1795e455	For the Progress Party, it is not important that it should be a 40/60 rule that it should definitely be 40 pst. or 50 pst. women – or men – in a government. It must be entirely up to the individual company who they want in the board. It must be up to the company if the person whom they are applying for holds the qualifications of the board of directors.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-23-lower.ana.ud1795e460	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-23-lower.ana.ud1795e463	The rapporteur has well explained the changes proposed in the law on shares and, in part, the important reasons behind them. In addition, the Party of Progress has taken up and justified the joint proposal behind it. Right-wing shares the Government's desire to clean up parts of the practice that have evolved in relation to the use of options, etc., and that some in the media have responded particularly to the moral sound. At the same time, there is reason to say that the use of options is not necessarily well justified on a professional basis, and is preferably a sensible tool at the start-up of a new company, such as: does not have the possibility to pay large wages on the first occasion. We therefore vote in favour of the proposals for the approval of guidelines and the framework for the general meeting, but we await the proposal – which has been much discussed in the media debate – on how the state intends to manage its interests at this point until the ownership announcement comes. The fact that there are not so many people in the room might suggest that the proposal will not bring about the big changes, as it is actually already today that directors represent essentially the owners. However, it is clear that post-control work on legislation could have been carried out more quickly. This is no criticism of the political content of what has been presented, and it affects more than the current government. It is primarily a criticism of the structures we have for the development of regulatory and regulatory frameworks, which are of extreme importance for those operating small, medium-sized and larger enterprises. The law here is probably developed by sharp brains, but the pressure on this type of legislation is low. In the process, there is too little focus on business needs, and these issues are given too low priority in the ministry in relation to the needs to be met. As a company commission has to be resource-intensive, companies spend too much time losing competition, the most resource-intensive of all, because the law is not constantly up-to-date. We therefore believe it is time to set up such a company and business law commission, with different experts from different sources, including users. I am also pleased that a joint committee follows up the recordings we received from some consultation bodies on the regulatory framework, in order to ensure, as has been shown to be necessary, that a qualified minority in this house, via the control committee, can look at the majority of the cards, there is a need for the rules of scrutiny under the share law to allow minority shareholders to check whether a company is operated for the benefit of the shareholder community – even when the company or central trustees do not want such cooperation or try to avoid scrutiny. And I've seen in recent years many examples of this kind of situation, which has shown that the legislation has not been involved. Discriminating someone in an employment process or in a governance selection has two consequences. One is that the individual who is exposed to this gets a double outer swing to go, in addition to what they may have experienced before. The other is that for society and not least for the individual company it may be quite stupid and probably not very profitable in the long run to sell out someone, whether it's based on sex, ethnicity, religion, function, age, sexual orientation, or it's on another basis. Today, the Judicial Committee will issue a case on more general anti-discrimination legislation. Then we can probably discuss these types of things a little bit wider – even when we're going to deal with the issue of allowances a little later. It doesn't make any sense that 50 pst. by Norway’s population is not recruited to the board of directors, and developments are slow. But at the same time, it is important that businesses have time to increase the representation of women based on real assessments of candidates. We are positive that the department is lessening the provision for forced dissolution, because the rules are not proportionate to the rear, but we are committed to the right of the owners to choose their representatives. At the same time, there must be at least a small whip behind the wishes of a majority in Norway verbally and externally, but due to the lack of gender representation, we believe that sanctions other than forcible resolution should be used and that, in the event of non-compliance with the personal requirements of the law on governors, periodic penalty payments are more appropriate as a penalty for enforcing compliance. The most important thing in the matter we are dealing with today is, in fact, the need to have an up-to-date law at all times. We get that now, but I hope it doesn't go the same way until the next time you do post-control of this type of legislation, because there are a lot of companies that are struggling that they don't compete on the same footing. They have 10 more meters to run in relation to the companies they compete with, for example. abroad. I also refer to the representative of the Progress Party who addressed us in relation to the proposals that we have promoted and voted on earlier, and to the proposals that have been put before the Financial Committee for a while in order to ensure, inter alia, that small and medium-sized enterprises have better conditions of competition in the form of: better regulation of company law. I take up the proposals on which the Right stands alone.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-23-lower.ana.ud1795e489	The representative André Oktay Dahl has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-23-lower.ana.ud1795e494	In the notes on rents, the Right expresses doubts as to whether the law is made by declaration and the setting of salaries, parachutes and the like, giving a truly changed legal status. They also show that they have noticed that some hearing authorities have pointed out that such voluntary schemes under certain regulations will be a better and stronger tool, as it will provide greater flexibility than the laws provide. They further indicate that this can help improve pay levels because there is more openness and transparency. Not a single positive argument do they come with for the change in law that they're actually going to vote for. My question is, has the Right here bent for the media its enormous focus on the ladder wages of fear of standing alone when the voters quite rightly point to the untimely in the astronomical pay and bonus scheme? Or do we see a statement of the following wisdom words: Upcoming people know when to lie low.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-23-lower.ana.ud1795e501	The answer to the so-called question is no. I record that some people need to sell this case in the media. The right in the government took the initiative and stood for what has actually been presented today. There's no disagreement, so we're voting in favour. Otherwise I refer to my post where I say that the option programs are not professionally well-founded. We are in favour of majority comments, which I believe have also been read by the representative Heggø. But I think it's okay to get into an attitude about the stock law that it's actually not that all the common sense and morals sit between these four walls – yes, now there are not four walls here, but, in this room – and that it's actually that very much of what is being taken up is already established as the standard for business today. We vote in favour and think it makes sense that we get this kind of regulation. But at the same time, you shouldn't think that just adopting this kind of regulation is going to be a practice right away. I also await the guidelines that come in the ownership message from the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-23-lower.ana.ud1795e510	The 40 pst rule was proposed by the Right in government. Now the party suddenly won't introduce this rule if it has consequences for the companies they can't pay out of. Right wants primarily multiple instead of coercion. If so, can the representative Dahl tell us what the size of the multiple is? I also have one more question: Subsidiary wants a derogation scheme on the right. Why did not the Right assess this when you were in government, before the proposal of 40 pst. was alienated?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-23-lower.ana.ud1795e520	In terms of what the Right said and did in government, we remember it very well – unlike some people who need creative history writing, for example. in the case of option programmes. The government of Stoltenberg thus privatized Telenor, went in for stock exchange listing – and was very surprised afterwards, when the value increased. Then you can not have a very strong confidence that the company had a very big future, and that it would mean an increase in value. With regard to women's participation in governments, I believe that Norwegian businesses have gradually come to realize that women make up the majority of higher education people in this country. It's going to make a difference in how many women sit on the boards. In terms of the sanctions that this is about, we know what we did in government. This is an alternative sanction, and I also expect a representative from a government party to understand that you are not standing here with concrete sums in terms of periodic penalty payments. We rely so much on the enormous investigative apparatus and on the intelligence available in the government offices and in the government fraction here on the Stortinget, that we can, if necessary, investigate that proposal with appropriate solutions in relation to what is common practice in terms of coercion.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-23-lower.ana.ud1795e529	No one else has asked for the word in reply.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-23-lower.ana.ud1795e532	The rapporteur, Ingrid Heggø, has presented the view of the majority in a good and adequate manner. SV is part of that majority, so I'm not going to repeat a number of single points here. But there's something I want to draw out. One is the governance structure with gender representation requirements and its continuation. I want to make it clear that it was just Right, at Minister of Industry Ansgar Gabrielsen, who took the initiative to get the most gender-like representation possible, and that on many teams there were strong reactions at the time. Afterwards, however, we have seen that development has just stimulated a much better gender distribution of governance. It makes the very large distance that is among the opposition parties in this area visible, in particular between the Right Party and the Advance Party, and how different the approach is. That this type of action is needed is a good example of this room. We live in a country where, up to just 100 years ago, amazingly, people did not have the general right to vote for women. Obviously, in the extension of the post of Solvency Horne, it would be possible to assume that things are self-regulated, that you don't have to regulate them, you might still have been in the situation that there had not been voting rights for women in Norway. That such a broad majority is in agreement with that kind of arrangement, I think there is reason to boast. I see that the right through two minority proposals has a different approach. I do not choose to place such emphasis on it as on the overall intention that one should have over time run around in a Norwegian share company, where both sexes are fairly equally distributed. I think that's a good thing, because there's a difference between the sexes in the way they think about it -- it's always been, and it'll probably keep on being -- but by the fact that both sexes are well represented, you get a lot better out there. We see that, through provisions relating to the determination of remuneration and remuneration for senior executives, there are indications that you need to publish and describe how your salary is determined, and the premiums for various other benefits – benefits in kind, bonuses, allocation of shares, warrants, options and other forms of remuneration. It's important. We have now reviewed the last few weeks and re-examined how matters arise in different companies where you have partly unfair bonus schemes. It is through public understanding of the kind of arrangements that one can do something — bring down the arrangements, put in place defence-proof schemes that are not concealed. That is why it is important to have that kind of insight, not only for the general meeting as such, but also for those who are going to present it to the public, namely the media. It is a very important element related to the Share Act. SV has also been concerned that we should combat the consequences of personal bankruptcy in relation to the fact that someone is struggling with personal debt that they cannot serve. We have had suggestions in relation to how it could have been resolved. We are pleased that the Government is now working widely and in various departments to solve debt-related problems, even though a somewhat different approach has been adopted than a proposal originally made by the Swedish authorities. We look forward to helping to reduce the number of ports in a poverty trap that they never get out of, and to pursuing the measures outlined by the Government itself, as set out here in the resolution.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-23-lower.ana.ud1795e547	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-23-lower.ana.ud1795e550	I feel that the representative, Ballo, is very concerned about the gender representation in governments. What is happening today is that when Norway has these special rules, ASA companies transform themselves into SEs and move their head offices out of Norway. Isn't the representative of Ballo worried that the companies are moving out of the country? So I'm going to ask the representative Ballo: is it sex or qualifications that should be crucial for representation in a board?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-23-lower.ana.ud1795e557	Norway has been a leading country in a number of areas, not least as regards gender equality. It's just to bring out Gro Harlem Brundtland as female prime minister, and how few countries in the world that at that time had female head. It was mostly just Sri Lanka with Sirimavo Bandaranaike in its time. This doesn't come of itself. A number of reports from women who have been in leading positions, and who have been early in leading positions, make it visible. I think it is very good that the Advance Party has got a female leader. It is nice that Solvency Horne, on behalf of the Advance Party, sits on the Stortinget. But I am surprised, and it must be felt as a coercion for female single representatives from the Progress Party, over a policy that is so far behind in time. I am absolutely sure that the representative of Solvency Horne in his pay chamber is aware of the consequences of such a policy, even if you are forced to take other positions on it in this room. SV believes that we should achieve equality in this society with these types of active measures, in relation to the Share Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-23-lower.ana.ud1795e564	I would ask for a concrete explanation of why the establishment of a company and business law commission will be very resource-intensive – as discussed in the debate – and how these resource-intensive efforts will offset the benefits of a continuously up-to-date regulatory framework that will generate growth in the individual enterprise, as they themselves demand.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-23-lower.ana.ud1795e569	I accept the assessment made by the Government in relation to counter-representations here, and have no need to elaborate it further.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-23-lower.ana.ud1795e574	I will make it easy for the representative of Ballo to ask the following questions: is it quality or gender that is essential for the suitability of a candidate for a board of directors?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-23-lower.ana.ud1795e579	I think that gender is a quality. The fact that you have women in control is a quality in itself. As a man in a number of areas, I do not want to be able to fulfill the perspective of women. That's why there's a good deal of government I shouldn't be sitting in – there should be women sitting in them. If you're not interested in that perspective, there will be a number of conditions in Norwegian society that are not being cared for. Take the situation in Norwegian homes, where one has gradually managed to achieve a better gender balance in order to take responsibility. Take the role distribution in relation to children, which women have traditionally had to take care of, where men have set up very little. We are now seeing how we can create better distribution, among other things. with withdrawal of maternity leave and postnatal leave. Without providing leadership for such schemes, we'll see that the main strain is on women. That's why it's a quality in itself when we create schemes that work over time to balance the genders. I am pleased with the curiosity expressed by the Progress Party in this Chamber today. You start smelling at those arrangements in that lot, too.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-23-lower.ana.ud1795e586	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-23-lower.ana.ud1795e590	The Central Party has no representatives in the Judicial Committee, but as a member of the Business Committee, I would like to express some views on this important matter. The General Shares Act and the Shares Act form a foundation and framework for the organisation and operation of a large part of our business. It is essential for our value creation that we have a company law law that is modern and adapted to the needs of the traders. At the same time, account must be taken of other stakeholders such as creditors and employees. The regulatory framework must take account of changes in the structure of business and in international conditions. The regulatory framework must be comprehensive without being too complicated. At the previous main review, the Stortinget was particularly concerned that the laws had to adapt to our corporate structure with an overweight of small and tiny companies. The result was also two laws, one for the common and one for the greatest. They asked for a back check after five years because they were worried that the simplification work had not gone far enough. I have a feeling that the everyday experience of the large amount of small businesses may not be enough taken into account in this review either. There is a clear sign of this when during a short period 18 000 companies have been registered as Norwegian registered non-residents, and this is not a major issue in the investigation. Among several reasons for choosing this type of company is the perception that the Share Act is too complex and that it imposes too many formal requirements and obligations on small and medium-sized enterprises. The Committee has pointed out that measures against the further growth of NUF companies need to be investigated. The work requires the active involvement of those against whom the legislation is directed and their advisers. The Central Party therefore considers that there is good reason to have the proposal put forward by the NHO in its hearing to set up a Company Law Commission. The Association of Norway’s Authorised Accounting Officers came to the hearings with proposals to set up a selection to simplify and rewrite the Share Act adapted to the smallest enterprises. In concrete terms, the Narf proposed that the rules relating to the normal routine of small companies should be put first in the law. The centre party expects the important considerations behind these proposals to be taken seriously. Independently of the method of operation, the Centre Party wishes that consideration for increased value creation and easier everyday life for entrepreneurs be given far more importance to such legislative work. When this is said: I appreciate the changes to the better that are in the legislative proposal and in the committee's position. The transition from three to four months for reports from the Executive Director to the Management Board is good, and reports to the Management Board can be omitted in the very smallest companies that do not have the Executive Director. Corrected rules on the implementation of minority decisions on governance review are also good. It will contribute to confidence. It is positive that there is now a consensus that the audit obligation needs to be amended so that the smallest companies can be released, as well as to facilitate reporting to the accounting register and to the stock register. The centre party is concerned that these simplifications become a reality and that they happen as soon as possible. A main theme of the statutory audit is to increase the influence of owners over the level of salaries and other remuneration. It is high time it became legal for guidelines to be laid down by the Governing Board and properly dealt with at the general meeting. Options and other share price-dependent remuneration arrangements must be accepted before they are concluded. This is an important step forward. But I'm also concerned about the new debate we've had lately, mainly about the great distance between what might be called a small elite in business and the perception of ordinary people. This background in attitudes is harmful to our value creation and harmful to the attitude of Norwegian companies. Therefore, further debate and perhaps further framework for leadership pay is needed in the future. In the first place, we need to put in place good driving rules to be followed by the state in its ownership of directors' salaries, options, bonuses, post-employment benefits and pension agreements. All the agreements entered into are a problem. But I want to say that it is wise not to break concluded agreements. It is also wise to re-assess the agreements when the outsourcing is different from the one envisaged. It was e.g. wise by Harald Norvik and good for Statoil that he said goodbye to his golden-edge pension agreement when he had to resign. The centre party has called for an investigation into a scheme that better ensures small shareholders against fraud and thereby facilitates access to risk capital for business. Such a system of sanctions is mentioned in several Settings of the Storting. In the proposition, an oversight of a far narrower objective has been established. It should be noted that the Ministry of Justice is not responsible for matters on the stock market. I want to say that it is a pity that there are so close shots between departments that together manage the laws that affect our ability to value. In our neighbouring countries, such supervisory arrangements are too far-reaching. I am pleased that there is some transparency in the setting that a stock market surveillance is being further investigated.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-23-lower.ana.ud1795e613	First of all, a self-critical confession: once you have been a Minister of Justice for five years, you feel that there are many areas where you can see the light, at least its own light. But the area where I really felt that I was short is the area that is being treated today. I personally am not convinced that Norwegian legal legislation and rules of play in the case of small and medium-sized enterprises are the way they should be. But I take the consequence of it in the sense that I am going to vote for the amendment of the law proposed here today, and consider it as an adjustment to the existing status quo. The reason I'm talking this way is that I'm not sure at all that we have the right framework for innovation and small and medium-sized enterprises in their daily activities, and the general historical and legal thinking in this area. I am aware that it is very demanding to challenge the existing legal thinking in that way. It's a big process, but I'm going to attack it in another context in the Storting through a nutrient approach, by just starting from it. I share many of the concerns expressed by the representative Lars Peder Breck in this area. It also means in practice that today I am going to vote in favour of the proposal from the Right and the Progress Party on a separate Commission. I perceive that at least there is a form of work and an approach that allows you to see this more comprehensively. The law must be coherent in its entire logic, and it is also consistent with its own history. But what I wonder about is the anchoring of history and the legal tradition in Norway. I am not at all convinced that it is good enough and just enough given that we now have a globalised economy, and that at the same time in that economy we want to ensure small and medium-sized enterprises innovation power. I think the proposal for a Company and Commercial Law Commission is a constructive proposal to be able to look at this in a broader perspective. I have also noticed that the department honestly explains why, for example. an instrument which a share supervision is not considered relevant in this context, using the approach available here. I can understand that in many ways, but I'm glad that both the majority and the minority in the committee are open that this can actually be an instrument, but you can see it in a larger context and with a clearer nutritional angle on the relationship. It is also a question that I will come back to, because it is very important that in a market economy we have the rules that make the market also work well for the smallest. A lot of the tradition in our legal thinking on the company side comes from a period when we in Norway were perhaps more plan-oriented in our head than what we are today. At least I'm going to grant myself the humility that I started with the self-criticism, because I don't owe anything to anyone but myself when it doesn't work out. That is why the initiative lies with both myself and the Left and other parties, when we may wish to make other proposals. Then there are two other debates that exist here. As far as one debate is concerned, I would just say that 20 years ago, the Scenarios Group found that Norway's main competitive advantage in the OECD area was the group of highly skilled, educated women. But then you added dry: but we're not very good organisational to exploit it. I think that recognition is absolutely correct. It is a recognition that also saw the Bondevik II government in connection with legal rules that would ensure that competent women were properly recruited into governing bodies and limited liability companies. I agree with the majority here today that important steps have been taken forward, and I also agree with the observations made by the representative, Mr Ballo, and as I think it was wise and generous of him to express the way he did, that this has started properly. But the Left will, of course, vote in favour of the proposals submitted by the majority and by the Government. Then there is another proposal that has received a certain mention – and that I myself was responsible for sending out in due course – and it is about strengthening the ownership of limited liability companies as to how management and boards behave. The reason why we have this is because sometimes we can sit and wonder if there's a little bit too close a relationship between administration, governance and management. After all, we must have as our purpose in a system where we have listed companies, that the owners should count. The game rules proposed here are, in fact, a strengthening of the market and of ownership. There's no disagreement about that, but I think it's important to highlight that very point of view. There is a need, and we've had examples in recent years that in such a context, what is called 'transparency' is good, because then we can control each other. With these comments, the Left will vote in favour of the vote, but we will vote in favour of the proposal from the Right and the Advance Party for a separate Commission.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-23-lower.ana.ud1795e632	Company law is constantly evolving. Since the Act on Shares and the General Shares Act was adopted in 1997, relatively new laws in other words, several changes have been made to these laws, and we also have to expect new legislative projects in the future. Some of the recordings that have been made in the hall today are worth listening to, and you won't rule out that there will be any further changes in the future. However, it is a milestone that, with Odelsting's treatment today, we are completing an important post-control of the stock laws. Based on user input, we have localised problem areas in the two laws, and the legislative decisions proposed in the committee setting will mean practical improvements. From other legislative changes proposed, I would like to highlight in particular the proposal for new rules of procedure for the determination of the remuneration of directors in public limited-liability companies – i.e. companies in addition to the listed companies. Both the committee position and the media debate have recently shown that there is broad support for this proposal, and that is important and joyous. The new rules will provide owners with a tool to prevent the development of greed cultures in which management is given pay schemes that people see as completely unfair and which also do not serve the interests of companies, and – I would add – which in many cases also do not reflect the efforts of the respective companies. However, the legislative proposal is not primarily about stopping unreasonable options and other similar arrangements. One of the main objectives of the bill is to ensure greater shareholder influence – as the representative of Dørum, among others. were in the process of improving transparency in the processes of determining directors’ wages and salaries. In this way, longer-term and in-principal assessments of the management wage policy of companies can be achieved. Another important objective is to increase the transparency in society of management salaries, not only to create a debate on unlucky schemes, but also to create a better understanding of what are good schemes. The nature of remuneration and remuneration schemes that managers should have must be assessed by the shareholders and the board of directors. It can't be regulated in the law. The development of ‘best practices’ – as in the Norwegian Recommendation for Ownership and Corporate Governance – has a clear utility, but in my view they cannot replace legislation at this point. The Odelstinget bill currently under consideration goes significantly beyond the recommendations in the Norwegian Recommendation for Ownership and Corporate Governance. I would like to mention in particular the fact that, following the draft law, the general meeting has to approve the policy on options and similar arrangements, that an obligation is introduced for the board to report annually on the policies of directors and on the effects of any additional benefits that have been agreed upon, and that this statement should be public. Another important issue is gender representation in governments. It is a good business policy to ensure that the owners bring out the most competent persons from both sexes, not just from the one. Indeed, the debate on gender or competences that has taken place in line changes earlier today is becoming a derailment in many ways. We all know that the challenge is that there is a lot of competence in both sexes, and it's a problem that you don't take advantage of the skills that exist in women. This proposal, in my opinion, will just help to increase the competence of these companies, and to the extent that the business world, too, needs, and the business world will benefit from. It will not provide any basis for companies that have to rely on such arrangements not to stay in this country and see that it is actually a dangerous road. I believe that the policy in Norway – after we have been given stronger and stronger female entries – has just been strengthened. The same thing will happen in the business world. This increases the level of competence and diversity, and both are important for good results. In 2002, the share of women in the boards of public limited-liability companies was 5.4 pst. On 1 July this year, the share was 21.4 pst. The share of the 100 largest companies is 30 pst. There is no doubt that the reason for the increase is the new law and the debate about the new law. As I see it, the Progress Party in the setting is taking a step backwards at this point, by canceling the whole law. Among other things, the party of progress shows: to the NHO’s opinions in 2003 – prior to the adoption of the law – that it was feared that such rules could have a negative impact on the stock markets and constitute a significant disadvantage for Norwegian companies. Now in 2006, three years later, we can safely conclude that these concerns have obviously not been addressed. The case has also received considerable positive attention from the rest of the world. Many see the same thing as a broad majority in the United Kingdom in 2003, namely that government elections are still marked by traditions and attitudes in which men quota men and do not find the best of both sexes. These are the mechanisms we want to bring to life.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-23-lower.ana.ud1795e647	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-23-lower.ana.ud1795e650	I would like to draw attention to a note that the majority constellation has described in the position, where they, among other things, are. pronunciation: ‘This plurality’ – the members of the Workers’ Party and SV – ‘shows that the Government is working on measures aimed at helping disadvantaged victims, even when there are tax requirements that are the main cause of the debt problem’. Does this mean a turnaround in fiscal policy for the new red-green government? It is a fact that taxes and taxes have been an important theme in financing public goods — at least it has been a mantra before. Although the Council of State made a proposal for a reduced legal fee – for which he should have the honour – it is likely to be taken back by, among other things. increasing the food tax. So my challenge to the Council of State is: can we now expect a regime shift in taxes and taxes in this country?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-23-lower.ana.ud1795e660	A change of regime has already been introduced. The changes made to the draft government budget next year show a very clear and clear course in relation to this. When reducing the coercive charges to those who are most deprived — those who are in forced action, outsourced business, outsourced property or its like, and who pay significant expenditure in connection with such coercive charges — by nearly 250 million. kr, such as means the deletion of important fees, yes, then I cannot see it as anything but a real power take-off by the Government. And putting tax policy in the direction of taxing less those who earn the least, and taxing those who earn the most, more, is just for the benefit of those who go into debt.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-23-lower.ana.ud1795e665	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-23-lower.ana.ud1795e668	Recently, we have had a wide-ranging social debate on the establishment of payrolls and option agreements. There's a lot of people who think it's time for a law that takes on a basic principle, and that's an expression of society's demands and values about these questions. By this law, the Government has put in place important owner-management tools. The Government has sufficiently ambitious initiatives to propose a new paragraph of the Public Share Act requiring the Board to draw up a statement containing guidelines for the establishment of remuneration and remuneration for the company's lease, and to be approved by the General Assembly. I record that the arrangement shall also apply to share- and share-value-based evidence. These are briefly the most important changes that relate to the lessor's wages and options. It is important that there be full openness on such issues below, and that the general meeting, i.e. those who are the owners, have to approve them in advance. The strength of these changes is that there is a full cross-political deal about these questions. Today we feel that Norwegian business is essentially going well. It's good times. It's low interest. High oil prices and the growth of export industries contribute to large surpluses in many companies. Many people ask themselves if there is a need to make changes in the course for Norwegian business. Yes, of course, it can be discussed, but one area where there is a need to do something is the area of leadership wages and options. It is totally unthinkable that some tenants should be able to make themselves rich only because the share price rises because the oil price rises. Nor is it reasonable for some leaders, and only the leaders, to be able to look at good option agreements because the workforce is on and do a good job for the company. Therefore, it is so important now that the Government provides shareholders with an instrument to intervene through this change in the Share Act. As I said, there's been a lot of talk about options lately. The most unlikely claim must be that the possibility of options helps the leaders to do a better job. It must be a myth that options are the cause of increased value creation in businesses. There is no scientific evidence to support such claims. The use of options is unnecessary and may, by reason of an unreasoning nature, actually act against its purpose as a motivation factor. I am pleased that the Government now, through its announcement of ownership, makes it clear that the State, through its ownership transfer, is refusing to use option-based incentive packages for leaders in companies in which it owns. And then other owners might have different opinions, but that would be up to the General Assembly to decide. But if the state goes ahead with good example, it might have a big signal effect on other companies at Oslo Børs. The debate on wages and options illustrates how important it is that the companies in which the State owns are showing social responsibility. Government companies are part of a society that expects the companies to show responsibility. I expect all companies to take social responsibility, regardless of whether they are eight private or public actors. This is why it is so important that the country that owns is a leader in this. I am pleased that the Odelstinget today is joining the Government's proposal for new rules on the management of rents in public limited-liability companies. It gives greater openness and greater shareholder influence around the rent determination. And, not least, it should be in line with the principle of good ownership and company management that the Board should draw up guidelines for wage-fixing, which will be discussed in the next session of the General Assembly.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-23-lower.ana.ud1795e687	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-23-lower.ana.ud1795e690	The rapporteur has gone through the vote very carefully. We from the Christian People's Party join the committee. I'll limit myself to commenting on some of the proposed changes. In order to continue with the last speakers, we also support the present proposal in the case of new rules of procedure for determining remuneration and remuneration to the Executive Director and other senior executives in public limited-liability companies. At the same time, I think perhaps the debate will be somewhat influenced by the fact that it is only with this that we could do something about the option scheme. That's actually not the case. Even with today's legislation, if an option arrangement is to be adopted, the general meeting of the company must first have set aside shares which may be used for that purpose. So in the companies in which the state has the majority, the opportunity could be used not to put shares into that type of arrangement, and thus had a hand on the steering wheel in relation to what is now being condemned – from right to left, in so far as – as unreasonable arrangements. So here it's actually more than one government that could sweep for its own door. There has been very little progress in the debate, but materially, if this was the case, the state could exercise its power of ownership to prevent several of the options that we have seen in recent times. But with the proposal, it is quite clear that it will be adopted by the General Assembly, and then, at least, there will be even clearer responsibilities. The second amendment to the law that I want to comment on is the question of responding to decisions on forced resolution. Of course, it is particularly related to the issue of gender representation in the debate. In that debate, it has almost been that you had the impression that there would be special rules if you broke one rule in the Share Act, the gender clause. So all the other rules were supposed to have one sanctioning system, and then you would have a separate sanctioning system if you broke the rules related to gender representation – meaning it wasn't that dangerous if you broke that kind of rules. That is why we agree with the proposed general exemption, and we support it. We're basically sorry that the right here is subtracting from what we agreed on in the Bondevik II government.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-23-lower.ana.ud1795e699	Today, we are dealing with several important changes to the stock laws and public stock laws, including: guidelines on the establishment of the remuneration of the lessee, the options and the payment of arrears. This is a very topical theme of the day, and in recent times there have been major discussions about media option mounts. I want to say that I am very pleased that the Government and the Committee are now taking action and are in favour of new guidelines for setting wages. This gives the owner, through the General Assembly, the opportunity to influence and approve the salaries and compensations of the companies they own. What surprises me is that every time it's about options parties and stuff that we've seen lately, there's one or the other "understandings" coming and telling us that in this country top leaders feel too little. They also claim that if we do not give them more gold-plated deals, they will disappear to the rest of the world. Then I wonder, have they not realized that there is actually a shortage of professionals today? It is professionals who can ‘shop’ job opportunities around the world. These same professionals will again be asked to show solidarity and not charge for high wages, so that no inflation and krone courses fly to verse. Then I thought it was important that they could have confidence in leadership and management in the companies where they would like to work. I find it worrying that some business leaders don't seem to understand the criticism both from politicians and from people most. Some warn politicians not to interfere too much. Here I think the state companies must lead by good example. By this law, the Government has put in place important owner-management tools. In the Ownership message this is followed by several actions, which are already notified. I would like to say something about gender representation in the board as well, and sanctions for violations of the rules. What matters to me is what the department says is that this actually has a principle side – I can say here that I agree very much with the previous speaker. They indicate that they cannot see any reason to introduce specific sanctioning forms for violations of the gender representation rules, in conjunction with other requirements for the composition of the board. Nevertheless, it is good that a safety valve is introduced that opens up so that, in a specific case, action can be taken against forced resolution. My appeal to the companies in this matter is that they only have to make sure that their gender balance is in order. Then this won't be a problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-23-lower.ana.ud1795e715	‘Women represent an unused resource in Norwegian business, and that this resource can be a strength in the increasingly strong competition – if we are able to exploit it.” It is known that more women take higher education than men, they have good grades, and they can contribute to diversity and new ideas in management and business governance.’ [[...]] The quote is from NHO's Managing Director Finn Bergesen, and I'm glad that the NHO shares the understanding of the Government and the majority of the population that it is good business policy to ensure that the owners bring out the most competent persons from both sexes, and that recruiting women into boards and leadership positions also gives the best results. The work done by the NHO and others to increase the representation of women is important, but has not proved to be enough. Therefore, the decision to legislate for gender representation in the boards was absolutely necessary. Today almost every fourth member of the board is a woman, but still there is still a long way to go in many areas. The number of female directors has been standing on site since the start, and today, as in 2003, is only 2 pst. by Norwegian ASAs led by a woman. That is why the position of the Progress Party is a major setback. Not only is it an expression that the Progress Party has not realised that it is still that governance is too marked by a tradition in which men quotas men and that women with business-related competences are being overlooked, but it is also a poor business economy. I also find it strange that the Right wants a different sanctioning system for breaching the gender representation requirement than for example. for the requirement to comply with the deadline for submission of annual accounts. To bring about changes in this important area requires more than half a million connections. Making words into action is easier said than done. That is why I am pleased that the Government and the majority of the population today are making sure to bring Norway another step further on the road towards the fully equal society.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-23-lower.ana.ud1795e733	To the question of setting up a company and business law commission, I will start by saying a little about the Banking Law Commission. It has addressed a number of issues related to the financial sector, where, over a number of years, there has been a need for a major legislative project. In this area, there is also a continuing need for major changes to be made to the directive. In the field of company law, too, there are EU acts that will require legislative changes. So far, this has been about regulatory acts of a rather technical nature. Such changes do not need a selection to evaluate. A selection will be likely for legal cases where there is a high level of reality assessment and where there is a need for major legislative changes. The Labour Party argued that if there is a need for major changes in the laws of the stock, a selection of representatives from the parties to the stock will normally be reduced. A standing commission has both suggested that one might point to individual legislative changes now, and that one sees that there will also be a need to come back to major legislative changes in the future. In this context, we would point out that the stock laws are relatively new, and that such a commission, with the many organisations that may be represented, would be very expensive and not the right priority. When it comes to own equity supervision, we would like to point out that the form of supervision dealt with in the proposition applies to the Share Law Committee's proposal for a supervision that may impose corrections/ periodic penalty payments in the event of breaches of the Share Laws. The proposition is not about the issue of the creation of a supervision linked to the relationship on the stock market. The question of the lack of confidence in the stock market of small savers, and the need for possible public supervision in connection therewith, is primarily the issue of stock law and securities trading legislation, which is not the subject of this legislation. The working party sees a great deal of positive in a share supervision. However, adding the supervisory tasks to an existing body, or creating own supervision, will have an administrative and economic impact of great importance, and it will result in prioritisation of infringements of the share laws at the expense of other offences. After a holistic assessment, the Labour Party supports the fact that no own share supervision is currently being created.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-23-lower.ana.ud1795e752	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Footage, see page 127]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-23-lower.ana.ud1795e760	We then go to voting in case No. 1 to 3.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-23-lower.ana.ud1795e797	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-23-lower.ana.ud1795e807	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-23-lower.ana.ud1795e815	During the debate, a proposal was put forward by Jan Arild Ellingsen on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The law on the Ombudsman of the Grand Duchy for administration shall be amended as follows: the second paragraph of Section 7 shall be deleted.’;
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-23-lower.ana.ud1795e823	It is true that the President refers to the presentation of a proposal by the Right and the Progress Party on amendments to the law on the Ombudsman of the Grand Duchy, which we have discussed. The Progress Party and the Right propose that it be withdrawn, for formal reasons. However, we expect the Council of State to have the debate on the topic in the Chamber today, and expect it to be properly addressed.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-23-lower.ana.ud1795e830	Then the proposal from Jan Arild Ellingsen was drawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-23-lower.ana.ud1795e10144	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-23-lower.ana.ud1795e10154	The Law Decision will be sent to the Creation.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-23-lower.ana.ud1795e10162	Five proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1 by Solvency Horne, on behalf of the Party of Advancement and the Right-wing Proposal No. 2 and 3 by Mr Solvency Horne, on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 4 and 5, from André Oktay Dahl on behalf of the Right;
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-23-lower.ana.ud1795e10211	The President will first vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: «In the law on public limited-liability companies, § 6-11a Requirements for representation of both sexes in the board of directors shall be deleted.» [[public stock law]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-23-lower.ana.ud1795e10228	President! I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-23-lower.ana.ud1795e10235	Then we take the vote again.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-23-lower.ana.ud1795e11345	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-23-lower.ana.ud1795e11355	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-23-lower.ana.ud1795e11366	There is no record.
