ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-02.ana.ud973e65	The representative Olav Akselsen, who has been authorized, has again taken the seat. There are several permissive requests: on sick leave of the representative André Octay Dahl from 2 May onwards and until further notice from the Socialist Left Group on sick leave of the representative Ingvild Vaggen Malvik from 2 May onwards and until further notice from the Right on the leave of the representative Jan Petersen from 2 May to 4 May to take part in the meeting of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly in Istanbul from the representative Line Henriette Holten Hemdal on leave from 2 May to 4 May to take part in the upcoming Grand Delegation to France from the Central Party on leave of the representative Dagfinn Sundsbø from 2 May to 8 May to take part in a study trip to Italy from the representative Lars Sponheim on welfare leave from 2 May to 11 May The President proposes that these applications be dealt with immediately and accepted – and see it as agreed. From the first alternate of the Hordaland County, May Britt Vihovde, there is an application to be released from office to meet at Stortinget under the representative Lars Sponheim's leave, due to illness. The President proposes that this application be dealt with immediately and accepted – and sees it as agreed. On a proposal from the President, the following agreement was reached: 1st@item: inlistbox The following alternates will be convened to meet during the term of leave: For Akershus County: Cathrin Bretzeg, Sylvi Graham and Kari Mette Prestrud For Hordaland County: Lars-Henrik Michelsen For Sør-Trøndelag County: Aud Herbjørg KvalvikFor Østfold County: John Thune2. Cathrin Bretzeg and John Thune are elected to Lagtinget for the time they meet representatives Jan Petersen and Line Henriette Holten Hemdal.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-02.ana.ud973e146	Cathrin Bretzeg, Sylvi Graham, Kari Mette Prestrud, Lars-Henrik Michelsen, Aud Herbjørg Kvalvik and John Thune are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-02.ana.ud973e152	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the Stortinget meeting in an in-depth week – and see it as agreed. The President will propose Kenneth Svendsen. – Other proposals are not in line, and Kenneth Svendsen is in agreement with the election of the President of the House of Stortinge’s meeting in the present week.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-02.ana.ud973e173	Based on the Law of 22 June 1962 No. 8 on the Ombudsman of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg for the administration of Section 12 of the second paragraph, the Ombudsman of the Grand Duchy submitted a separate communication to the Grand Duchy in December 2005 concerning his handling of a complaint. This is an opportunity that the Ombudsman has to present to the Storting that he finds is of great importance, and it has been done in this matter. There is a system which, at least, I would like to express the hope that the Ombudsman will continue to make use of, so that we can get into the Storting important issues relating to complaints against the administration. It is an important control instrument in itself. The Ombudsman concludes in his examination of the complaint, which relates to notifications promoted and processed by the prosecution authority and police and courts, that the handling of the case by both the police and the prosecution authority is critical on a number of points. The criticism includes late processing, lack of response to enquiries, failure to register and investigate notifications and lack of record keeping and document management. The entire committee agrees with this unusually strong criticism. The Committee also refers, in its opinion, to letters to the Committee of State Council Knut Storberget, accompanied by letters from the Riksadvokat to the Ministry of Justice, in which the same criticism of the procedure with which the Ombudsman concludes has been made. The entire Committee agrees that the strong criticism and reproof of the implica tions made by the Advocate-General in the past was absolutely necessary. In this case, serious procedural errors have caused undue suffering to the parties to the case, and there is an overall committee which presupposes that, through its follow-up to the case, the Advocate-General protects against the repetition of similar errors and shortcomings and ensures the general protection of citizens. There is also an overall committee that would point out that the settlement entered into in part of the case complex does not affect the complainant’s right to pursue further proceedings under the Criminal Procedures Act Chapter 31, the appeal against the EMD or any compensation paid by the Stortinget or the bodies of the Stortinge. So this is the full opportunity for the Storting to also adopt a replacement payment, and it's an overall committee that thinks. The majority of the Committee also refers to the system of cheap pay, while the minority, the representatives of the Progress Party, are in favour of proposing such compensation in this matter which is under consideration here today. Then there is an overall committee that assumes that the follow-up case overall has now received will be an important contribution to the future use of police and prosecution authorities for a procedure that does not provide grounds for similar criticism. So to the minority's point of view. The members of the Progress Party have come to the conclusion that it is not sufficient to refer to the reimbursement of expenses and to depart from the possibility that the State, as a party here, has both to grant compensation and to cover the costs incurred by the complainants. As I see it, there is an important principle within the justice system that if you win with your case in the end, the costs of getting the case up until such a decision is borne by the counterparty. It is quite natural that the costs of the case are fully covered. So a little bit about the background of the case. Thus, the case concerns a family conflict, a family disagreement, in relation to a property issue – property rights and conflicts about a property. A woman in the case, referred to as C, is in conflict with her brother A and reports him to the police for violence and assault, rapes, over ten years – a rather dramatic report of A. What happens then is that an investigation is being conducted. Much of the investigation has later shown many critical aspects, as the Ombudsman has also concluded. A goes to the counter-repudiation of his sister C for false review. So we're in front of two reviews. Those who have looked at this case might agree with me when I say that it was relatively obvious relatively early that the basis for the notification of violence and abuse, including rape, was in reality groundless. On the other hand, it is clear that the notification for false notification was well justified. The police and the prosecution authority did so when the very opposite of what would be natural, namely to concentrate on revealing the basis of the first notification, to find that it was not very well documented, and then to deal with the notification for false notification. Instead, the opposite happens — the police seem to do what they can to try to substantiate the report that later turns out to be groundless. They are not interested in the information in the case that could indicate that there had actually been no rape, no infringement at all. In investigating cases, the prosecution authority and the police are obliged to find what is both in favour of and towards a conclusion, and to make an objective assessment of what is presumptuously probable, or what is demonstrable. This is where you did the opposite. The C's page in the review against A. The notification was not registered for false notification – it was registered many, many years later after reminders from lawyers, and nothing was done with it. There was also a private investigator inside the case, as A and his wife, B, engaged, and who provided a report relatively early that clearly showed that C had submitted a false report. Mother to C and A said in her explanation, which was also signed, that it was a false review. These documents were removed from the Offices of the Public Prosecutor's Office and the Police. In other words, this has been an almost pure persecution against two innocent people, married couples A and B, who have fought against the authorities since 1994, and who have finally won out at all levels, including the prosecution authority and up to the National Attorney General. It's at least my conclusion that it wouldn't have been because A and B were so steadfast, and that they got help from some other people, among other things. Torstein Dahle, leader of RV, and lawyers, you would have been completely crushed and not won out. However, they have fought against the overpower, the Norwegian prosecution authority, and brought the case to the top, so they have finally won, because they have not given up. Many people in the same situation would probably have given up. A and B have, as I judge it, had their lives ruined. Both are now dissatisfied because of this case that they have been dealing with and that they have fought for acquittal since 1994. So the Norwegian justice system has nothing to boast about here. Instead of being a defender of rights and caring for the interests of weak persons and ensuring fair and fair treatment, someone within the prosecution authority and the police, as it looks out from the documents of the case, has been properly prosecuted. And you've been holding on all along. Finally, the lawyer also gave the couple A and B the right. Circulars have been sent from the Riksadvokat based on the experience of this case, in order to help to ensure that something similar should not happen again. I hope that this case will be a school example of how the police shouldn't act, how not to accept reports, not to remove documents from dossiers, to ensure that you don't have a culture based on a bit of companionship, and that you are aware of the principles of stability, which are probably – there are many who claim – broken with regard to personal relations between police and prosecution authorities and those involved in this matter, which have become quite large. Here's a lot to learn. I am sure that the Minister of Justice will confirm that he will make sure that something similar to what the Ombudsman here has revealed, to which the Advocate-General has acknowledged is critical and to which an overall committee of magistrates joins, will not happen in the future. We're going to have a justice system that we're going to be proud of. It shall not be like what this case has revealed, and there is every reason to be ashamed of. There is a need to learn lessons here, both in the State Attorney's Office and in the Department. We must combat the kind of culture that could have been in this matter, at least in implicated areas of the prosecution and police system. It's really going all the way, from the local police up to the Riksadvokat, that everyone can learn. The three proposals put forward by the Progress Party are that the couple should receive their total documented expenditure, i.e. the costs of the case, covered by their own allocation. In proposal No 1 we say that we know that there is a settlement entered into in a limited area of the case complex. A settlement has been made to cover the case costs of 1.2 million. kr. As far as I understand, it's about half of the actual documented costs. We cannot understand that the Storting cannot immediately establish when both the Riksadvokat, the Ombudsman and an overall control committee establish that there are critical facts that the documented costs incurred by the couple A and B in order to win out on their case are to be met. I do not understand that the other parties do not want to be part of it. In fact, it is said straight out that they can apply for a cheap payment, and that they can prosecute the case in the courthouse. It's open. It would have been better if Stortinget made a decision in the matter and let the couple A and B get away from it. Now the majority of people say that if they want to cover the costs, they get to continue the case in the courthouse. Here's the state's counterparty. The size is the highest body in the country. Here we should have been able to cut through and say, let's save the couple A and B to pursue the case in order to cover their costs in the court system. Let's grant compensation, which is a common principle in the courts. But the courts only deal with cases when they come to the courts. There are many conflicts in this country that are resolved by conciliation between two counterparties, without going to the courts. The State also has the option of entering into a settlement that includes the total complexity of the case, so as to save court costs both for the State and for the spouse. It would have been much more reasonable to make a settlement, apologize and say that we should try not to do this again, and that we should cover the costs the couple has had to win with the matter. Proposal No. 2: The couple A and B have, with their argument, actually won out on all points. They are acquitted, but because they were previously formally not intended – the formal term ‘simple’ – they did not get along with a claim for compensation earlier. One of the faults has been discovered. A should have been targeted and had its full rights. He has been deprived of that because of the failure of the Norwegian prosecution authority. It's going to go first and foremost over A. It doesn't go out on the state at all, as it should. That is why we are saying in proposal No. 2 that A is granted a cheap payment of NOK 1000000 and Mrs B 500000, as evidence of a public failure in their handling of their case, and an indication of the serious and critical nature of the case. It would have been quite reasonable. I am once again very surprised that the majority could not help to get this matter off the ground, both from the judiciary and from the public, so that the couple could return to a more normal life. Now they're forced to continue because the majority of people don't think it's fair and fair that they get compensation, and because you think they have to go further in the courts. It's unworthy in my opinion. Our third proposal is as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to provide for a review of the control and quality assurance system of the prosecution authority and the police’s performance, and to propose or ensure the implementation of measures and reorganisation ensuring that the critical aspects addressed in Document No. 4:1 [[2005-2006]] A little bit of a point here is just to learn. Then you have to go a lot more into it than the working group that almost pro forma looked at this in the Hordaland Police Chamber did, and what has so far been done by the Riksadvokat. What is sad is that this case would not have been revealed if it had not been for the couple themselves and some helpers, who are fighting and fighting. Do we know that there may have been other similar cases, where prosecution authorities and the police make so many serious mistakes and take one's side in a violent case? And could there have been a number of different murders of justice that we don't know about? In the things you've taken care of, the ones that matter are crushed, and they're no longer able to do it. This married couple worked more. We have no certainty that there are no other issues. On the contrary, we have confidence that there are many areas where prosecution authorities and police have, in part, carried out very poor investigations and very inadequate treatment. The cases in the cold water of the Bjugn case are not to be boasted of by the Norwegian police and prosecution authorities, nor by the courts. Finally, new recovery systems have been put in place – long after the Progress Party first proposed resuming all Bjugn-type cases, sexual assaults against minors, where the perpetrator had never admitted guilt. Now you have that opportunity, many years after it should have been put into effect. I am not satisfied, and the Progress Party is not satisfied with the fact that there has been no overall assessment of the consequences for those in the police and prosecution authorities who have committed the serious and critical circumstances. In all other areas, the state, the public, is very careful to address critical issues. Anyone who has run a little too fast and has been taken by a photo box knows that. But here's one thing where the prosecution authority and the police have committed something that has been so serious, and I'm sure the Minister of Justice and the Ombudsman of the Storting for the administration have also found so serious that you want to make your own case. In addition, a joint committee says that there has been a lot of critical here. And then there's no investigation, for example. in accordance with the provisions of the Criminal Code on negligence in service. In fact, based on the case documents, you have deliberately removed documents, deliberately investigated the wrong case, deliberately made many serious mistakes. And then nothing happens – as far as I know, not even a written reprimand against the policemen and people from the prosecution who have made these mistakes here. Nothing's happening. We have a check on the police that is based on the fact that you can only go to the special investigation body when you can clearly report a violation of the law. Unfortunately, as we in the Progress Party have proposed, it is not a police force that can investigate and assess whether there should be any other type of action than judicial proceedings. In all other positions, jobs, businesses and organisations, there is something called reprimand, which is called degradation, there may be different personal effects for the further career of those who have made serious mistakes. And that's the most frightening thing: in this case, so far, at least, there have been no documented consequences for those who have made the serious mistakes and the critical circumstances, no consequences, yet this is much more important and more important than, for example, one. a false report, which is being persecuted, which was not in this case either, but which will normally be investigated. The Minister of Justice and a big crowd say that there have been critical situations here, there have been serious things done, but there will be no consequences for those who have done so. It is not acceptable in our opinion either. That is why we want this review. I allow myself, on behalf of the Progress Party, to promote the three minority proposals contained in the Inst. S. No 115.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-02.ana.ud973e229	The representative Carl I. Hagen has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-02.ana.ud973e232	This is a serious matter, and it is a sad matter. It is serious because it is an example of a police and prosecutorial treatment that is critical in a number of areas. It's a treatment that people shouldn't be subjected to. It is sad because those affected have been subjected to heavy loads over many years. The critical procedure has laid a weight on the burden. The Ombudsman’s examination of the case concludes that the treatment is critical on several points: late processing, lack of response to enquiry, failure to register and investigate a counter-report and lack of record keeping and document management. This confirms the criticism of the Advocate General. A unanimous control committee agrees with this unusually strong criticism, that the criticism is necessary and that these errors have led to unnecessary suffering for the parties to the case. We assume that the follow-up that the Advocate General has made to the police and prosecution authorities ensures that such errors are not repeated. The handling of the case by the Civil Ombudsman and the Stortinge underlines the seriousness of this and should contribute to avoiding such procedural errors for the future. I would also like to refer to the compensation settlement entered into between the parties and the Ministry of Justice. I am pleased that this agreement came about, because it should also be an important contribution to the conclusion of the matter. Mistakes and the suffering they cause are often a heavy burden to those affected. At the same time, it is important to get on with the fact that the people involved are also able to put the matter behind them. Everyone who is implicated in and has engaged in this matter should contribute to it. In addition, I would like to comment on just one point in the Special Note of the Advancement Party, which goes to former Minister of Justice Odd Einar Dørum's letter to the Control Committee in 2002. There the Progress Party writes: ‘These members will also point out that former Minister of Justice Odd Einar Dørum may have been led to misinformed the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee and the Stortingen in 2002 on this matter.’; The Minister of Justice may have been led to misinformed the Stortinget. This innovation in relation to the responsibilities of state councils towards Stortinget, and especially for something as central as the obligation to provide information, is interesting. For my part, I do not see the basis for the doubt the Progress Party sowed about the information in the letter from Dørum. But if the Progress Party sees it, they should be able to make up an opinion as to whether it was a misinformation or not. If a government council misinformed, there is no government council ‘led to’, but in fact something he has a responsibility for. If it is permissible to say so in a serious matter: this attempt to create a new parliamentary practice that limits the responsibility of the Councils of State here in the Chamber may also be part of the preparations of the Progress Party to become a government party. Then it may be that they want to see themselves earned that this type of disclaimer got stuck. But I don't think the Progress Party is going to hear about it in this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-02.ana.ud973e271	It is both sad and sad that serious procedural errors in public bodies have caused unnecessary suffering for the parties to this case. The right, together with a unanimous committee, presupposes that, through its follow-up to the case, the National Advocate protects against the repetition of similar errors and shortcomings and thus contributes to the general protection of citizens. On the basis of this case, I do not want to go as far as the rapporteur does in his criticism of the police and prosecution authorities, and mention this as combating a culture of police and prosecution authorities. I believe that a single matter does not provide a basis for establishing that it is a culture. I have also experienced other individual cases in the police that are unfortunate, highly critical, and I think you should be a little careful to make this a group act that you can call a culture. This case was brought to a legal conclusion by a settlement between the State of the Ministry of Justice and the spouse concerned, A and B, where the State pays a total of 1.2 million. kr. The agreement emphasises that the proceedings of the police and the prosecution authority have been critical and that the complainant, A, has been cleansed of the criminal offences. The parties have therefore entered into a settlement and consequently accepted the compensation. This does not necessarily cut off a compensation payment from Stortinget or from the bodies of Stortinget. But here, in my opinion, it should be the cheap compensation scheme that is the institution in question, and this should be dealt with in the usual way. Therefore, the right does not support the proposals. 1 and 2 from the Progress Party. Through the examination of the matter by the Committee, it has been established that the Advocate General has inculcated procedures and instructions for good and effective proceedings, and that the Ombudsman's opinion has been sent in full to all the Advocate General's Office, with a specific endorsement to the Advocate General of Hordaland to make the opinion known to the Chief Police Officer of Hordaland. Well, that's probably the closest thing to you in the department is going to be a penalty, if you're going to use an expression derived from another public establishment of a similar nature, and I think you've noticed it, to say it carefully, in Hordaland. I can also agree with the rapporteur on the matter that the case as such is suitable for being included in the educational system of the Police College, because it is such behaviour that must be avoided at all costs. And using the case in teaching, it's obviously modern for the time being. It seems from this that the criticism is taken seriously, which is necessary. I therefore do not want to support proposal No. 3, from the Progress Party. That an overall committee states that one assumes that the necessary action is taken in the light of this case is a very strong signal to the relevant authorities, whom I expect will be followed up. Like the last speaker, I'm just going to comment on the hypothetical misinformation adjudication against former Minister of Justice Odd Einar Dørum. I think the Storting is well served to take a stand on such matters and not present an intermediate variant of a sort of hypothetical, almost addressless, misinformation charge.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-02.ana.ud973e291	Document No 4:1, about the police and prosecution authorities' processing of two messages, is awareness-raising and shocking reading. The caretaker of the Storting gives insight into such a delete handling of messages that it is most unlikely to believe. It has been found here that there is a delay in processing the case, a lack of response to requests, a lack of registration and investigation of counter-notifications, and a lack of journal and document management. It is quite appropriate that the lawyer has complained about the proceedings and has stepped in to ensure that things like this will not happen again. It is also appropriate that this case be followed up as well in connection with, as suggested by the case-speaker, the Police College's educational system as in the police and the prosecution authorities' internal course activity. It seemed right and reasonable that in this case, there would be compensation from the public. Two Ministers of Justice have worked on that part of the matter. An accepted settlement has been concluded with the Ministry of Justice on 26 January of this year, after rapid and tidy efforts by Minister of Justice Storberget. The case spokesperson has done a great deal of good for the various elements of this case and for the majority and minority opinions. The central party is part of the plurality that supports the settlement that has been concluded, which also indicates that it shall not prevent one from proceeding with this matter, either in the court or in relation to the Stortinget's own compensation arrangements, i.e. the court fee. It is a great feeling to be exposed to a false message. It's very understandable that there's an extra big impact in a case like this. Not to be taken seriously, either at the time or at the time of counter-notification, it must not be done, and we argue that the necessary measures that have now been taken will prevent it. We support the majority in the committee, as is the case today. We mean and hope that the deal that has been made will give the couple this debt, the opportunity to put a very heavy and difficult time behind them.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-02.ana.ud973e302	I have followed this matter with concern and concern for a long time, even in time before I was appointed State Council, not least because the case has affected individuals and revealed serious procedural errors within the police and prosecution system. It is such that when wrong affects individuals in this way, it can be very hard. But it's also true that if we're going to have a well-functioning, effective justice system, where we're going to use more and more in-depth methods to come to terms with serious, legitimate accusations, then we're totally dependent on a procedure that gives the methods, the police and the justice sector confidence. That is why this matter is important also in addition to the people affected. The critical issues raised by the Civil Ombudsman and the Riksadvokat are serious. As Minister of Justice, it has been important for me to ensure that the case has received the necessary follow-up, so that, for the future, individuals can be prevented from being unduly affected, and that police and prosecution authorities act in a way that would not give rise to similar criticism. It has also been of great importance for me to contribute to a quick and friendly solution to the matter, which has already been going on for many years. I therefore took the initiative in December 2005 to resolve the case through an out-of-court settlement offer to A and B. Despite the fact that the State has strictly not legally recognised compensation or redress liability under the appeal proceedings, I found it reasonable that, on the basis of the critical facts that have been revealed and recognised, the plaintiffs offered a non-negligible financial compensation to cover the expenditure incurred. After further negotiations between the parties, it became 26 January then. concluded such an out-of-court settlement, known to the Storting, where, inter alia, it: the State is ordered to pay the complainants 1,2 million. NOK in the cost recovery for incurred expenses. In my transmission of the settlement to Stortinget, I found reason to clarify its contents a little further, as some media in their mention of the settlement seem to interpret the settlement somewhat differently from the state as a party to the case. I considered this to be a necessary information to ensure the full information of the case and of importance for its further processing in Stortinget. It was my only purpose. I would like to clarify with regard to the comments that come from the Progress Party in relation to my letter of 28 February this year, that I did not intend to limit the wording of the agreement in view of what was the state's position, rather the opposite. As I mentioned, it has been important for me to ensure that the case has been followed up so as to prevent similar critical proceedings in the future. As responsible for criminal proceedings in the police and the prosecution authority, the Riksadvokat, in a letter to the complainant, complained about the proceedings of the police and the prosecution authority. He has also made the case known to all state lawyers and clearly reinforced rules and procedures for criminal proceedings. The criticism and follow-up of the National Attorney in the police and prosecution system was regarded as a very strong criticism and as a reprisal of the staff involved. I would like to add that in the future too, such a case will be able to shed light on much of the work done in the ministry in relation to ensuring the procedure, and I believe that, insofar as the input of the case rapporteur to use the case as an example in teaching, but also to have such a case in mind when designing new rules, is important. It's not just the government and the justice sector, but it's also true when we're going to make laws here in Stortinget. The Ministry of Justice has not put in place any concrete action or pressure against the local addendum bodies which have the power to impose any orderly penalties, since this is assumed to be outside the responsibility of the Ministry. Finally, I would like to make it clear that, as Minister of Justice, I find the proceedings that have taken place very regrettable. I assume that the follow-up matter has been passed through, among other things. the national lawyer, the civil ombudsman and the Stortinge's own treatment lead to the future avoidance of similar proceedings within the police and prosecution authorities and the protection of general legal certainty. In addition, I find it necessary to inform you that continuous work is being carried out to ensure and improve the quality of the criminal proceedings conducted by the police and the prosecution authority. I have an ongoing dialogue with both the National Attorney and the Police Directorate to ensure that the work is given the necessary priority. I find it very positive to be able to register, among other things. the recent reduction in average police proceedings.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-02.ana.ud973e325	This case has been a shocking reading for us who have been introduced into it through the Civil Ombudsman's documents and other documents in the matter. The Ombudsman’s inquiries conclude with an unusually strong criticism of police and prosecution authorities, and, in the view of the Christian People’s Party, it is entirely in place. We are fully committed to the criticism. I have to say, in my time in politics and administration, I have not been far from doing this. Late processing, lack of responses to enquiries, failure to investigate counter-reports and poor document management are some of the conclusions. But the most serious thing is the suffering that the public's shortcomings and mistakes have caused for those affected. It's a big regret. The Christian People's Party will stress the importance of the matter being followed up in a proper way. With regard to the compensation aspects of the case, the majority of the Committee refers to the system of cheap substitutes made for such cases, and I agree with what has been said by the parties in the majority voting in this way. But after listening to the Council of State, I have two questions for him. First of all, I want to ask, how could this happen? Does the Council of State have any reflections on giving to the Storting relative to the fact that this was possible? Because it would help shed light on the question of whether this is an isolated case, or whether it is part of a larger problem, than say a cultural problem, as the rapporteur had to say. My second question is: here we all assume – from the National Attorney to the Committee of Inquiry and the Stortinget – that what the Advocate General has done will prevent this from happening again. It is a formulation that is quite vulnerable to later criticism if it is not properly followed up. I must say that I wish that the Council of State had made even more clear how he can assure the Storting that he will contribute to this being followed up, so that what we all base, also becomes a reality.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-02.ana.ud973e338	Some comments on the speeches in the debate: First, I would like to repeat my great surprise that it seems that the Progress Party is standing alone trying to end the matter. Svein Roald Hansen said on behalf of the Workers' Party that it was hoped that the affected, married couples A and B, now with this treatment could ‘put the matter behind them’. So they've had twice the cost of the case and they've got a significant financial debt to cover them, which they'll still have. The majority of the population cannot say that a significant economic loss due to the behaviour of the country should be ‘represented’. The majority here do, in fact, say to the couple that if they want to cover their costs, documented expenses, they have to go to justice, or they can apply – I guess that's what the majority thinks – for cheap pay. There are also clear rules, and there are also clear limits on the amount – at least it has been – that would be blown up if you were to cover the costs. It is a political principle and a political decision: should one, in the case of the couple, who have fought since 1994 and won – it is a ‘shaking reading’, as Mr. Dagfinn Højbrätt just said, which everyone has agreed – and the net result is that they nevertheless have a solid economic loss, go beyond the financial framework to settle? Here the majority pushes the political question of whether we are going to cover the costs of this couple, to a cheap selection. That is the dispensation of political responsibility that we are not in. And then there's a lot of people talking about cheap payoffs being the natural scheme. Originally the agenda for today, I think, was planned in a different order, sir. President, but let me at least refer to the next case to be dealt with, which is concerned with a tragic plane accident, affected who has also fought a lot to try to get a different conclusion on what caused the Mehamn accident, than the first Commission found. There is an overall committee which proposes to establish a separate compensation scheme for the survivors following the Mehamn accident. There's no reference to cheap selections, and this applies to people where the state is not really a party at all, where the state really has no responsibility, because there has been a tragic accident, where there has been a disagreement about what may have been the cause. The state has no fault in the accident. It is difficult to say that the state has some blame for the commissions that have investigated and investigated this as well. However, a separate compensation system shall be established, but here it is the fault and criticism of the State, «shaking reading», as Mr. Dagfinn Højbråten says, there shall be no separate compensation scheme. In the case of the Mehamn accident – one comes back to this when dealing with the case – there should be a separate name that is also assigned to determine the amount of compensation, while in this case, which is the case for one married couple, completely destroyed life due to a faulty system in the justice system that does not capture this type of serious error, where one still has to fight against the Norwegian State in order to cover only its costs. And if you're going to have some compensation for upliftment, etc., it also has to be done by fighting further. I find it shocking, to use Dagfinn Højbråten's expression, that the bulk of the population refers them to it, and it is impossible, as Svein Roald Hansen requested, for them to put the matter behind them. Then Svein Roald Hansen also commented on some of our comments where we express – and that is our position, we accept that others believe otherwise – that a government council has been led to give some false information to a big-time committee. Yes, I have actually said that before, because I have had a debate with the previous President-in-Office on it. We have a very good principle, but I don't think you can always use principles. A government council has so many issues at its table that the state council is totally dependent on getting accurate information from its subjects, such as police, prosecution authorities, departments or others, information that he or she cannot control. Going on state council hunts, mistrust, etc., when it is quite obvious that the Council of State had no means of controlling information, I think it is wrong, and I have said that before. Had it been the Minister of Justice sitting there, we could have used an outlaw decision. You can't use that against the former state councils. Nor can one have any means against former state councils. I've meant this a long time before we did well on polls, if that's what Svein Roald Hansen thinks about. I think it's too absolute. I think that this information requirement should apply when it is obvious that the Council of State could and should know what was right. In this kind of case of details, the then State Council did not really have any opportunity to do it. Information has also appeared in retrospect, among other things. in the case of this agreement, where I am very pleased that the Council of State now, as I see it, came with a clarification. He made it clear, at least, that it was not his intention to provide any incorrect information to the Stortinget in his letter of 28 February, Annex 1, which reconciled with the fact that the state's statements in a previous case were not correct, were limited to «some references». I am pleased that the Council of State said what he said on that occasion. But it's also a new proof – and in this kind of case, maybe you can become a little paranoid, so there's ten years of misinformation and critical relationships – and so the last letter from the Council of State to the Enlarged Council's Control Committee is not correct in terms of quotes from the conciliation. Then it is clear that you should follow closely the apparatus you run in a department. It is quite right that strict legal requirements are not necessary for liability, many will be able to claim. I accept that. If that's true, the courts will have to decide in the event. But I'm pointing out that in another case, which is much less serious about the state's behavior, we're doing exactly what we're trying to suggest about this couple. So, of course, we're maintaining our suggestions. When it comes to culture, I noticed that Per-Christian Foss commented on it. I didn't say this was about the entire justice system. It was the parts of what has been inside this case complex, I related myself to. I also noticed what Dagfinn Højbråten said at the end of his post: How can we be sure that it does not happen again? Why did it go as it did in this case? That's what we want to review. We don't have a system that will reveal it. That's the problem. That is why we have put forward proposals for police surveillance to deal with complaints against the police, which do not necessarily relate to criminal offences, but to the slendrian and critical circumstances. Nobody's handling it. The most important thing is that something has to be done, because police and justice are authorities, and they're the only ones who can use power. And if there's anyone we need to control, it's of those who can exercise physical power and powerful power. There are no real control systems. You can complain to the Civil Ombudsman, but not many have done so. You can go to SEFO, but it's a lot more serious. And if you go to the Department or to the Police Directorate, you're told to go down the system. This case was discovered, but similar cases are not revealed – even for the future – unless we make a system change and introduce police surveillance. We're supervising a lot of other areas, but we're also missing it with regard to the exercise of child protection. There's a lack of child-restraint surveillance. I hope that the Council of State thinks a little bit more through this, when there is a system that doesn't work – at least it hasn't worked here. Only the couple A and B's stubbornness and infirmity have caused this matter to lie here today. And I think it's sad that the big crowd's thanks for revealing faults and deficiencies that can improve the systems in the future are that they have to pay well over NOK 1 million, be in bottomless debt and continue the matter for years. So that's the reward of the population majority. It's unworthy of the bulk of the population.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-02.ana.ud973e361	First to the representative Hagen's post now: My letter of 26 February – which I have been to in my post, so I'm not going to spend so much time on it – does not contain a direct quote from the agreement. I think it should be treated as a letter from me, where I describe it. But I have stated what I am putting into it, and I also record that the representative Hagen is satisfied with it. So the representative is raising two essential questions on the subject, which, of course, is a major challenge. Both questions are related. First, how could this happen? And what is our experience in relation to the question of whether this is an individual matter, or whether it is a culture? I have to say that it is difficult to give some analysis in relation to how such cases can happen. But I'm of the opinion that what's essential in these kinds of cases is to bring down the processing time. When matters remain, at any level, we see that the risk of procedural errors also increases, for many different reasons. Now I myself, as a defender – before I ended up in politics – have experience of looking at criminal matters with a critical look, and I must say that, fortunately, on such a scale and with such seriousness, we see very rarely. In this way, we have a police and prosecution authority, and also a court of law, which in most cases behaves very tidy, where you have a thorough and good procedure. We also see it in the cases where you actually take out charges, where you get judgment, and where the courts in many ways control the work done by the police, that the rate of conviction in Norway is fairly high. It is an indicator that we are not facing a cultural problem here in relation to police and prosecution authorities. So the exciting question, and the important question, which I was also talking about in my post, is this: how can we contribute more to this actually not happening again? And how will we follow that up? I want to mention some points that I think are important in relation to this. First of all, I believe that police and prosecution authorities, the public and the state are making a lot of sense, faster and more pleasant when you actually detect errors, so that you learn much more from them by doing, among other things, what you do. have done so in this case, to show the willingness to make a settlement. I think that's important. I mentioned in my post that I have addressed this on a number of occasions, both with the Police Director, with the Riksadvokat and with other actors in criminal justice, and I will continue to do so. Then I remind you that we have recently set up a completely new special investigation body for police matters. One of the intentions of this body was to strengthen the critical approach to police work. The body must be independent, and it must focus on the fact that the police have to handle matters properly. I think it's about to happen. We're about to get that effect. I also believe that the appeals procedure which the department has now initiated, and which, as I have been informed, started in January, internally in the police, will have an effect on the issues on which the representative Hagen was involved, where criminality cannot be detected, but where it is necessary to complain in the light of unacceptable behaviour or investigation by the police. Then it's my opinion that if we really want such matters not to come in the future, it's certainly important that we get down the trial period in the criminal court court, which I was in for. There, the Government will come back to the Storting, in the near future – it is my intention to come before the summer – with a package of measures to ensure faster criminal proceedings. These are measures in relation to both police and prosecution authorities, and not least in relation to the courts. In this context, it is also important that we ensure the work that the Norwegian police are now doing, building up the remains of the police, that is, old things. You're doing a great job. It was well done under the previous government, and that work continues. We have been discussing the issue of education and the situation of the Police College in our contact with the Police College and the work to be done in relation to developing the Police College. Both in terms of syllabus and content this will be central. We also believe that, in relation to regulatory design, the issue of a general approach to, among other things. the development of police methods, it is essential that we also bear in mind that we put privacy and legal certainty in the high seat. I am pleased that the Storting has largely agreed with the fact that the methodology has just been expanded in relation to the more interventional methods. Where the damage or misuse of methods can be very severe, attention has been paid to both data protection and legal certainty, as well as, among other things. called for more use of the courts and more use of judicial control in police intervention. There's a line Government will continue in the future too: to a greater extent using the courts to control the work actually done. With that, we also contribute to a point that I think is important: to make the system more transparent, i.e. more transparent, so that you actually have the opportunity to discover such things even in the cases where those affected have less resources and are unable to run such a case as the Stortinget, among other things. treats today, makes the system more transparent, so that you actually have the ability to control. There are also questions of access to the file and of the question of transparency of the relevant material in the investigation. I think it is crucial if we are to detect this type of error and other similar errors, that we also ensure that the transparency rules are good enough, as well as taking into account the other concerns of criminal justice, to be able to protect e.g... sources and witnesses. The last thing I want to mention is that I think it's important to avoid these kinds of things that we ensure that defense comes in at an early stage, and that there is room for the defenders to do the work that can just help to reveal this kind of work. This was not an exhaustive overview of measures, but there are some of the measures that the Government is obsessive of and that we will propose. We also do not rule out that there will be any more.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-02.ana.ud973e395	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Food, see page 2013]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-02.ana.ud973e411	On 11 March 1982, a Twin Otter signed with LN-BNK on the way from Berlevåg to Mehamn in Finnmark. There were 13 passengers and a crew of two. Everyone loses their lives when the plane crashed into the sea. The captain was never found. More children lost their parents, even more parents lost children. It is a well-known fact that for a long time — over decades — there are doubts and not least suspicions about the official investigations of this accident. Especially in Northern Norway, many have not calmed down with the conclusions of the first two review commissions. A central appeal has been that they have not examined or taken sufficient consideration of the suspicion that British fighter aircraft were somehow involved in, or even cause, the accident of the Twin Otter. Media look-ups have, at random, made the case warm. The debate reopened in the autumn of 2002. Mehamn-ulukka was on the agenda again. This helped to ensure that the Storting decided to create a new survey commission. The Mehamn Commission delivered its report in autumn 2005. On behalf of a joint supervisory and constitutional committee, I can report that we believe it is positive that this case has been re-examined, regardless of the reasons why the Mehamn accident was once again a public issue. It has been important for the Committee to address this matter in an open and open manner. We have read carefully the great amount of input that has come to the committee while we have handled the report to the Mehamn Commission. As case spokesman, I also took the initiative to hold a series of meetings with the deceased, the witness, the media, members of the Mehamn Commission and the operator on the ground. I think the implementation of these meetings has been of great help in the work on matters. I would also like to take advantage of the opportunity to thank the committee leader and the other members of the Committee for a good and constructive cooperation. There are good reasons to believe that this is the last time public authorities review and actively take their position on the Mehamn-Ulukka. It has been a long time since the crash. It's an independent point to participate in the creation of peace and quiet in and around this case. In our view, this led to two factors: firstly, that the examination of the Mehamn Commission and the committee's handling clarify the most likely causes of the disaster, namely that we provide the survivors with some kind of upsizing for the assertions that have partly mistrusted the first investigations in this case. The committee of mine gathers that the Mehamn Commission has done a very thorough job. We join their main conclusion, that this was a tragic accident. The suspicion that British fighter aircraft have somehow been the cause of an accident has not been proved. There will still be some who keep on that explanation online. Maybe it'll come out once a day for information that's bigger than such a hypothesis. We can't categorically ignore that. But today, on the basis of what we have read, heard and learned, we assume that the Mehamn-ulukah was just that: an accident. The Committee would stress that public authorities under universal rights do not have any liability towards the survivors after the Mehamn accident. However, a co-consultant's committee is in favour of the State providing an appropriate remuneration. The previous public investigations of the Mehamn uluk, as mentioned, have been carried out in a way that has not been enough to bring the case to an end. The Committee believes that this replacement should be an economic handle that gives the survivors an upswing for past mismanagement. I point out that the legal compensation scheme is to be found under Stortinget. As you know, this system is flexible. There are no formal guidelines for the assessment of the compensation to be provided. Judicial compensation may be awarded without there being any legal basis for liability. As a rule, legal compensation is granted only to the person or persons who have suffered an injury. In the spring of 2005, when the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee dealt with ‘Development Seniors’, the Committee stated that the judicial compensation scheme should not be a compensation scheme for survivors or others affected by accidents, as indicated by the Innst. S. No 242 for 2004-2005. The majority recommended a separate compensation scheme for the survivors following the ‘Edvik Senior’ loss. A co-conspirator's committee now believes that a similar compensation scheme should be established for the survivors after Mehamn-Ulukka, and that this scheme quickly listens to life. It's the latest time raised a question of tax in relation to such a scheme. I assume that once again this time I will not pay taxes on the claims. Let me get to the bottom of it when the committee looks at Mehamn-saka as very special. The Committee also believes that any future compensation cases should be channelled primarily through the judicial remedy system. It must be a goal that extensive clocks are examined and handled in such a way that the cases can be closed at a much earlier stage than the Mehamn-Ulukka case. There's been a lot of happening since 1982 that's probably just that. Today there are other and better procedures for investigating when an accident occurs. There is a clearer responsibility for the follow-up of the dependants, and there is a government accident commission for transport. All of this guarantees a different and better handling if a similar accident that happened 24 years ago was going to happen today.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-02.ana.ud973e444	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2013]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-02.ana.ud973e460	At the request of the Control and Constitutional Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of up to five lines after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-02.ana.ud973e469	Debt problems constitute a serious poverty trap. In a comprehensive effort to combat poverty in this country, schemes to help individuals out of debt problems are important. The Debt Regulation is central in this context. The purpose of the law is to give persons with serious debt problems an opportunity to gain control of their own economy. The main purpose of the Riksrevisions study was to assess whether the proceedings are taking place within the time limits laid down by law, regulation or administrative action and whether it is reported accordingly. The objective of the Ministry of Justice is that the preparatory proceedings of the Civil Service Officer should take place within 90 days. The study shows that more than half of the officials’ offices surveyed exceed this deadline. The average duration of proceedings for debt regime cases is still too long. While there has been a certain decrease in the number of days of proceedings since the previous survey in 1996, the Government still needs to take action to reduce the time of proceedings, so that the 90-day period is not exceeded. In the case of other procedural procedures, the investigation shows that 10 out of 14 officials’ offices examined do not have written procedures for this type of case, 12 of them have no quality assurance of the proceedings carried out, and seven of them have only one person dealing with indebtedness proceedings. A joint committee finds this critical. Better procedures and effective quality assurance are required to ensure the security of proper and equivalent treatment. The Committee therefore asks the Government to take action to ensure this. Available and understandable information on the scheme is essential for the achievement of the objective of the law. Individual follow-up options are also important. It must not be the case that the lack of information about the Debt Scheme Institution is what makes people not finding the way out of the debt problems. Unfortunately, from the offices of officials it is reported that the information material is perceived as both inadequate and out of date. A comprehensive committee therefore asks the Government to assess measures to ensure good and accessible information for the benefit of users. Getting into a situation where you need help with your own economy makes you vulnerable. It can be perceived as difficult. Therefore, the knowledge and ability of the individual case handler is required to meet users in a good way. It must not be that those who enter a public office feel less when they go out again than when they came in. Unfortunately, there are too many examples and testimonies. Management must be characterised by a fundamental attitude of respect. In the case of debt regimes, the field of action also requires detailed legal and economic knowledge. The Committee therefore asks the Government to assess whether requirements on competence should be defined for case handlers of indebtedness cases. Consideration should also be given to how centres of excellence can be used more effectively for training and training. The study also shows a lack of reporting on procedural time. It is assumed that the Government will ensure compliance with the requirements for target and performance management in the Government’s Appropriations and Financial Regulations also at this point. A majority in Stortinget asked the Government to investigate a system of personal bankruptcy during the examination of Document 8:66 for 2003-2004. The government was also asked to submit proposals for a deterrent under the Credit Purchases Act. The Committee looks forward to the submission by the Stortinget of subsequent cases. An overall committee also considers that there is a need to strengthen the control of the marketing of unsecured credit. The government is asking to promote a case for the Storting that follows it. Many individuals can tell stories about how they feel that debt has become a lifelong poverty trap. For them, the term ‘debt slaves’ is perceived as a maximum concrete reality. It is important for society to make arrangements to prevent the indebtedness that has been incurred from becoming such a lifelong captivity, a mechanism that allows debt to be managed within a limited period of time. The cause of the debt problem has changed somewhat since the law was passed. The target group at that time were to a large extent people who returned with large mortgages after the house had been sold. Today, other factors tend to justify the need for a debt regime. This development requires an assessment of the feasibility of legislative and practical changes to ensure that the objectives of the scheme are best achieved. The Christian People's Party will also, later this month, address and address these challenges in an interplay with the Minister of Children's and Gender Equality on debt and poverty. Here I would like to limit myself to stressing the importance of public creditors also contributing constructively to a debt regime where appropriate. An overall committee asks the Government to draw up clear guidelines on public policy in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-02.ana.ud973e504	Debt regimes are important and useful – and lastly possible – for those who have come into a situation where they are unable to bear the debt burden they have incurred. In such a situation, it is important and useful for all parties, both the creditor, the debtor and the society, to provide either a forced or a voluntary debt regime. Of course, it is also important that it should not be too easy to have a debt arrangement. A debt arrangement must be the last and only solution to get up to date, to cover expenses and manage debts. Of course, it is also important to stress that a person has a personal responsibility not to incur an excessive debt. We rely on an effective and good quality treatment at all stages, with competent case handlers, so that a debt settlement is trusted by all parties, that one feels that this has been done correctly, and that this is the only and best solution. In this context, it is worrying that the objective of a maximum of 90 days of preliminary treatment has not been followed. That is worrying because 90 days is too long. Of course, it is unfortunate that this goal is not achieved at a time when there should be no external circumstance that makes the demand for debt regime particularly high. We have now had an economic rise for many years, with rising property prices, rising share prices and low interest rates, and also a relatively good employment. This means that the demand for debt instruments – accumulation of it – should not be intrusive. At the same time, we see that debt-building, especially in private households, has increased markedly in recent years. This means that at some point in the future we can have a new accumulation, or, as one would say, a new debt crisis for many who are unable to deal with debt. At the same time, there are rising interest rates and falling property prices. It is even more important, then, that we get the order of business and get the procedure down to the 90-day target that we have today. If we don't do it now, at least we won't do it if it builds up a new debt crisis. In this context, it is important that public creditors are more flexible and not as regular as many examples show. Many voluntary debt schemes have stressed that public creditors are not willing to reduce their claims. Public fees are high, and there is something you should review. It is clear that when an additional fee was charged by the State, it would be even more difficult to obtain a voluntary debt arrangement. A voluntary indebtedness scheme is an absolute preference over a compulsory indebtedness scheme. I believe that the parties will respect and do more to enforce a voluntary debt regime than a debt regime that is compulsory and signed by the law. Finally, I would like to raise the proposal of the Progress Party that is in the committee setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-02.ana.ud973e521	The representative of Gjermund Hageseter has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-02.ana.ud973e524	I just want to say that we notice the comments that have now come. These are important insights into the work to be done in the future in relation to debt regimes and debt problems. I think the representative Hagesetter has good points in terms of assessing the future. We will need to have an effective device so that we can handle this. It is important in the poverty reduction strategy of the Government. It is also important, in relation to many other parameters of quality of life, that we receive more rapid procedural treatment. But I think one of the most important challenges will be to be able to inform well enough, so that people know what offers exist, offers that can help prevent social problems and not least crime. I noticed what was said about the processing time and the processing system. Now there are, among other things: the civil justice of the base plane has been through a very comprehensive reform. It is exciting to see if it can help us to have more effective procedures. I want to draw the Stortinget's attention to the fact that the computer system to be used by the civil justice system on the ground plane, called SIAN, was actually going to be in use from 1 January 2006. This has not been achieved due to relatively serious problems with the implementation of the equipment, but it is being worked out to ensure that this is done as quickly as possible. It will help to bring down the procedure. I note the issues raised by the Committee regarding written procedures. It is natural for us to take this up, among other things. with the police districts in their governance dialogue and with the Police Directorate. As far as the information work is concerned, I think that is a very important point. This work has been taken into account. Among other things, it is an up-to-date factsheet, which has been modernised the brochure ‘Money problems’, and it has also been developed in cooperation with the Health and Welfare Directorate in brochures on financial advice. So here it's done something, but we're set to do more in relation to the piece of information just to also make the arrangement known. I agree with the Committee's comments on the question of competence, and also on the question of assessing competence requirements for the publication of posts to address precisely this issue. I would like to add that we have, over a long time, had a fairly good competence in the field of these questions. But technological developments, as well as developments in the debt situation, demand that development be accompanied, and that is a very important question of competence. As regards the observations on personal bankruptcy, the dissuadement of credit providers and on the marketing of unsecured credit, it is true that the issue of personal bankruptcy has been dealt with in Ot.prp. No 55 for 2005-2006, Chapter 18, promoted this year and sent to the Stortinget. With regard to the issue of the non-advisory obligation, there is now an assessment by the Government. We await the directive that will come from the EU on this issue. As soon as it is available, we will start work in relation to the very question of the obligation to reject. With regard to the issue of marketing and to be able to provide information about effective interest rates, there is a relationship I think we can provide more, without waiting for other actors. That is why I intend to send questions about marketing, including: information on effective interest rates, etc., on consultation already before the summer holidays. With regard to the Committee's observations in relation to legislation, it is clear that the Debt Schemes Act passed a relatively comprehensive reform in 2003, including: the question of whether the public requirements were in place and where it was also opened up so that, as a general rule, a debt regime would apply to all types of claims. The amendment of the law in 2003 opened up so that the debtor who had previously acquired a debt arrangement could be reorganised. I take note of the comments to consider further improvements to the legislation in the further work.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-02.ana.ud973e547	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2014]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-02.ana.ud973e563	At the request of the Control and Constitutional Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-02.ana.ud973e572	In 1998, the capital increase adopted a plan for equipment investment in hospitals for the period 1998–2002. The equipment plan provided an exceptional focus on IT and medical-technical equipment to improve the equipment situation in all hospitals. The total envelope allocated was SEK 5.3 billion. The new Rikshospital would also cover approx. $800 million. kr to medical-technical equipment through its own investment plan. The appropriations for hospital equipment could be seen for the period as a whole, so that equipment which was not acquired one year could be included in the plan later. The variations between individual hospitals in the region were significant, supporting the view that the replacement of old equipment and necessary renewals had previously not been carried out regularly and systematically, but occurred through major uplifts. It was, therefore, an important and significant increase adopted by the Stortinge in 1998. The aim was to help put patients’ needs at the centre — focus on easy access to hospital services and good professional quality of treatment — for the renewal of medical and technical equipment and for increased capacity. In addition, the cancer action plan was an important part of the equipment deployment. Hospitals in 1998 had a reported renewal need for old equipment corresponding to the additional allocation from Stortinget. The Committee has a joint recommendation on this matter, but the Advance Party has chosen to submit its own observations. In this note, the Progress Party recalls, among other things: on the proposals for increased investment in equipment which they have promoted during the period, including through their foreign budgets, and that they have proposed to change the State-to-state distribution key. In addition, they point to the lack of overview of the equipment situation in many hospitals in the country. The aim of the study has been to clarify whether hospitals have followed the priorities on which the Stortinget laid down the device plan and whether the investment planning and training procedures in the use of medical-technical equipment comply with the requirements. In the National Audit Office's separate annex to Document No. 3:6 for 2005-2006 it appears that the essential data used in the survey are derived from the answers in a survey based on a questionnaire sent to 63 public somatic hospitals. Furthermore, the Riksrevision states that when the final line for this data collection was set, so many data were missing that it has influenced the aspects of the survey that it has been possible to deal with following the intentions. One of these aspects, in the opinion of the rapporteur, is the average age calculation. Health West, according to the study, has the most complete routines, including historical data, risk analyses, plans and written decision-making bases. In this region, it can therefore be demonstrated that the average age of medical-technical devices has decreased. It is no surprise to me that where good overview and systematics requirements are followed up, this will provide more accuracy and better quality in terms of the data requested. Based on an overall assessment of all available documents, data and reports, the rapporteur considers that there is a good basis for claiming that the key objectives of the device plan have been achieved far on the road. Investments have had a major impact on bottlenecks, reduced downtime for equipment and increased patient penetration. In addition, investments have been relatively significant in replacing old equipment in hospitals and in major improvements in IT equipment. The costs of the year 2000 challenges are also covered by the investments. The investments at New Rikshospital have also gone according to plan, but improvements must be made to hospital investment plans and plans. There is no doubt that the training procedures for investment have been inadequate. At the same time, when we know that technological developments are moving towards increasingly costly and advanced equipment, and therefore also greater operational knowledge and follow-up requirements, the Committee takes a very serious view that the Riksrevision has identified such shortcomings in the training procedures. This may compromise patient safety and may contribute to unnecessary stress and insecurity in the work environment in individual hospitals. The Committee notes that the Government also considers this to be a serious matter, and I believe that the Council of State has implemented the necessary measures as a priority task.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-02.ana.ud973e603	In Document No: 3:6 points out that medical-technical equipment in hospitals is of crucial importance in achieving key health policy objectives of greater capacity, better quality and better effectiveness in patient treatment. Throughout the period since 1998, the party to the progress has been making greater concessions to investment in medical-technical equipment, both in the ordinary budgets and in the external budgets, and in order for the State to account for a greater part of the investment. The Court of Auditors' investigation has been carried out in accordance with Document No. 3:6 had the aim of explaining the priorities of Stortinget for the 1998 equipment plan, in the Netherlands. S. No 226 for 1997-98, have been followed, and if the procedures for planning investments and training in the use of medical devices have been in line with the requirements that should be met. Despite the fact that there is no full agreement between the Riksrevision's report and SNF's report No. 18/2003, the Progress Party believes that it is in place to take note and follow up the National Audit Office's indications that hospitals have a poor overview in areas where information should have been more readily available, and that the National Audit Board questions whether hospitals exploit the possibilities and systems they have to ensure the management and follow-up of equipment investments. Nor does the overview and plans of future capital needs associated with the renewal of medical-technical equipment lie ahead, according to Document No. 3:6. It is not acceptable, in the view of the Progress Party, that businesses have poor overview and unsustainable information on their own investments and the future needs for equipment essential for patient care and for the exploitation of resources. It is necessary to require that businesses make up-to-date plans for the replacement and acquisition of medical-technical equipment so that the state can assess the promises and capital requirements – based on real needs and on the desire to achieve its objectives. Accounts must be kept up to date so that they can be re-read by their status, investment capabilities and time perspective. Health professionals are a continuing problem in many contexts. It is important that what can be done to strengthen the economy and make the best use of resources is implemented. Medical-technical equipment is an important factor in this context. The Progress Party has argued that in the future, entrepreneurs will have a better overview of routines and that they will ensure that planning and procurement are done on a reasonable and commercial basis. The Progress Party's members support the plural setting and expect the Ministry to ensure that this area is closely followed up below.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-02.ana.ud973e624	The plan for equipment investment in hospitals for the period 1998–2002 adopted by the Stortinget in 1998 was an important and necessary effort. Available and up-to-date medical-technical equipment in hospitals provides better treatment, faster treatment and provides more patients with treatment. The National Audit Office’s investigation has revealed weaknesses in the planning of investments by health-care establishments and also in the training procedures related to medical-technical equipment. This is serious. It is important for the Minister of Health and Health to ensure that these deficiencies are rectified so that we can make the best possible use of the resources in this area, and to ensure that patients are safe and sound. The report of the National Audit Office must and must be taken seriously. However, questions may be asked as to whether the Riksrevision method used to calculate the average age of the equipment provides a full picture of the results of the equipment plan. The method implies that the average age will decrease if one buys many items of equipment that are low in cost per person. unit, except if the same amount is used to buy an animal unit. It may also be pointed out that the survey is based on a relatively small sample of respondents. Furthermore, the conclusions of report No. 18/2003 from Social and Business Research AS, which evaluates equipment investment in Norwegian hospitals in the period 2001–03 in a slightly different direction. This survey shows that investments have gone into the replacement of old equipment and the purchase of new equipment, thus increasing the capacity and quality of treatment. Bottlenecks have been removed and patient flow has increased. Good and accessible medical-technical equipment is important for patients. The equipment plan was therefore an important step, which has benefited patients. At the same time, it is important that the weaknesses identified by the Riksrevision study are taken seriously and corrected so that patients can benefit as much as possible from the investments made in the future. I have faith and confidence that the Council of State will follow this up.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-02.ana.ud973e637	The National Audit Office’s investigation reveals a lack of procedures related to training in the use of medical devices, as has already been the case with several speakers. Like the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs, I take this seriously. I therefore made clear in business meetings with the regional health establishments in January 2006 that such procedures must be put in place, and that for all occupational groups. It is quite clear that good training procedures in the use of the equipment are a prerequisite for the efficient use of the equipment, for the benefit of patients. It is also important for the safety of patients. I will follow closely and ensure that measures are put into action by health businesses, as many have experienced. With regard to improvements related to planning procedures for medical-technical devices, I have already instructed regional health companies to take a firmer approach in this area. I would also like to inform you here that the Ministry has developed specific assessment points to underpin all types of investment plans in regional health establishments. These also include risk assessments. It was therefore clarified in the business meetings that these assessment points should be followed. The Committee points out that only 17 out of 55 hospitals have been able to provide a complete overview of investments in medical-technical equipment. I would like to stress here that hospitals have both tools and overview of investments in medical-technical equipment per year. today. The fact that hospitals did not have a good enough overview at the end of the 1990s has also been pointed out earlier by Stortinget. This has now been followed up, especially as a result of the health reform and the introduction of the Accounting Act, which obliges health businesses to establish plant registers and to account for the purchase of equipment in their balance sheets. However, it appears from the Riksrevision report that existing investment plans are not actively used enough in planning processes per year. today. As I mentioned earlier, I have already submitted to the regional health companies management requirements related to planning procedures for medical-technical devices, and this will be followed up.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-02.ana.ud973e650	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2014]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-02.ana.ud973e670	In winter, the Christian People's Party has taken the initiative for a new aging plan. We have received a good response to that, and it is positive with the dialogue we have with the Government and the other parties in the area. It is important to make a common commitment to care for the elderly in this country, so that we have an elderly care service that takes care of the individual’s needs for care and care. The parental care system shall be filled with more content, inter alia through: improving quality and competence. All people must meet their basic needs. Providing dental care is an important part of the overall care. A good dental health is an important prerequisite for maintaining a satisfactory quality of life. Regulations on the quality of care services shall ensure that all those receiving care services are provided with their basic needs. These include necessary dental treatment and oral hygiene. Older people's dental health has improved in recent years. In the home, healthy elderly, dental health is not a big problem. However, when the ageing process and disease are seriously introduced, older people with their own teeth appear to be at risk of poor dental health. According to NOU 2005:11, 10 pst. pain in and torment with teeth, and a third had problems with eating. Among the elderly at home or with home care, there were 15 pst. who had pain and pain, and 30 pst. who had problems with eating. In particular, it is among elderly people with disabilities that dental health rapidly deteriorates when functional loss occurs. An evil circle may easily occur if the teeth are not guarded. Lack of dental care because the older person is unable to do this himself and does not receive help in caring for his teeth, can lead to damaged teeth and infected gums, with subsequent pain, discomfort and eating problems. It will make them eat less, or eat more one-sided diet, which in turn affects the entire state of health, including dental health. Drug use may also be harmful to the teeth of the elderly. The combination of medications, still-sitting and low fluid intake causes the elderly to dry in their mouths. Dry mouth is harmful to teeth because of the risk of infections and problems with eating and swallowing. This makes them particularly need to take care of their teeth. As mentioned above, nutrition and dental health are interrelated. Good and varied diets can prevent the development of disease. It also affects dental health. Increased use of water and more nutritious and appetising food are important in prevention. Tooth care is of little importance in the care of the elderly when assessing the quality of care and care provided to the elderly. In many institutions, dental and oral health is well cared for by the elderly, but there are wide variations between institutions and between counties. The large variations are likely to be related to the competence of nursing staff and to the manning situation at home and in home health care. Until now, free dental care for the elderly has been linked to living in an institution or to being the recipient of home care, according to the law on dental care. As the care of sick and elderly people is largely provided at home, fewer are entitled to publicly funded dental services today than at the time of the adoption of the law on dental care. Based on the degree of functional impairment and thus the increased risk of dental problems, dental treatment is not covered for the elderly living at home who care for their relatives. If the provision of subsidised dental treatment is linked to the degree of functional loss, this bias could be corrected. It is a goal of the Christian People's Party that public funding for dental services should be directed towards groups with special needs. The way today's system works, it's not necessarily the ones that need it the most, that get caught up. It may be difficult to define what is home care and whether you are receiving home care is not necessarily related to the level of function. You should not and should not be punished with poorer dental care because you care for relatives or by your own. Defining loss of function may pose challenges. It can be linked to the ability to meet different daily needs, or to self-care functions, such as personal hygiene, clothing, mobility, etc., the so-called ADL scale. It can also be linked to the ability to perform diverse household tasks, such as picking up the phone, paying bills, shopping and cooking. It can also be linked to dementia, such as memory, orientation and evaluability. These different parameters affect the ability to actually polish your teeth yourself, the ability to contact your dentist when needed, or to remember to brush your teeth, or the ability to assess whether there is a need to do something with your teeth. It is important to understand when the loss of function occurs, so that the elderly person himself, relatives and caregivers, in cooperation with the elderly dental practitioner and permanent staff, can take action to prevent dental damage. NOU 2005:11 calls for the decision to be given the right to refer to publicly funded dental services on the basis of disability assessment. This is a system that sounds functional, as I see it. In order to maintain good dental health in nursing elderly people, good cooperation between the community and dental services must be ensured. Dental services – and in particular dental care – have extensive knowledge of how to best care for the teeth of the elderly and nursing to prevent dental injuries. A good dental health is an important prerequisite for sustaining a satisfactory quality of life. Daily dental care can ensure that no dental problems develop in a way that makes feeding difficult or leads to diseases and other health problems. There is a need to invest in extensive training of nursing staff and on individual information so that it can be easier for nursing staff to provide the individual with the dental equipment he needs. The community health service is responsible for the daily care allowance, including dental care. Cooperation may increase competence and quality. The county’s dental services are responsible for overseeing the dental health of this group and providing the necessary dental care. A prerequisite for ensuring that dental care is able to discharge its responsibilities in this area is to ensure good capacity and access to dental practitioners throughout the country. It is important for the Christian People's Party to provide an equivalent service regardless of where you live in the country. Recruitment and stability problems create problems for dental care and hinder the achievement of the objective. It will be a prerequisite to have good geographical dental coverage in order to strengthen the dental services offered to nursing elderly people. This is an important matter, which should be given priority when following up the Government’s NOU 2005:11 on public engagement in the dental field. Developments in the future will be that more people receive home care, and the threshold for getting institutionalised will be higher. The elderly will be older and weaker before they get to the institution. Nevertheless, it is gratifying that much indicates that more people will have their own teeth in the future. But at the same time, we know that these will therefore have a particularly great need to take care of dental and oral health. This shows that dental care among the elderly will become increasingly important in the future. That is why I hope that the Council of State will follow up on this already in the announced care message, and that she will also take the initiative to upgrade the dental offer for nursing elderly people.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-02.ana.ud973e706	I fully agree with the representative Davøy that dental care for the elderly is a field that should be given greater attention. Although the population has relatively good dental health in Norway, it is still obvious that some people need help to take care of their own dental health. Many also have difficulties in paying comprehensive and cost-intensive dental treatment itself, when needed. Over the last few years, Stortinget has agreed to extend public funded dental care schemes, which also benefit the elderly. Examples of this are, as the representative is well aware, increased social security suspension for the treatment of periodontite and grants for the rehabilitation of the dental kit when teeth have been lost as a result of this disease. Upon the introduction of partial participation 2, one was also covered by certain forms of dental treatment and in the additional proposal in the autumn the Government provided for a reduction in partial participation 2 from NOK 3 500 to NOK 2 500. In NOU 2005:11 Public engagement in the dental field, it is noted that there are still groups that have an unmet need for dental treatment but for various reasons have not received a good offer. As the representative of Davøy is aware, it follows from the Dental Services Act that county municipalities have a responsibility for providing a regular and outseen offer of dental services to priority groups. Groups of elderly, long-term ill and disabled people inside and outside institutions belong to the priority groups. For these, the municipal form of organisation with regard to care services will have an impact on the right to dental care. The criteria for whom the rights of those who are not in an institution are covered are defined in the regulation. Since the date of entry into force of the Dental Services Act in 1984, there have been major changes in the organisation of services for the elderly by municipalities. Several older people who would have previously been given room in an institution remain at home and receive care and health services outside the institution. In this way, they may risk not being subject to dental rights. There is therefore every reason to go through this legislation. The Quality Regulation for Nursing and Nursing requires the municipality to develop written procedures to ensure that users of Nursing and Nursing services are satisfied with basic needs. Of course, dental treatment and oral hygiene are essential. The staff responsible for the care and care of the user on a daily basis shall ensure that the daily oral purity can be carried out. The County Dental Service is responsible for contributing to the training of municipal nursing and care personnel in oral care. A recent survey of the oral health of residents of institutions and a survey of the extent of closed procedures and procedures for the oral care of residents has been published. The survey shows — perhaps not surprising — wide variations between individuals, institutions and states. As the representative Davøy refers to, it is proposed in NOU 2005:11 that persons with disabilities are considered to have a special need for dental care. The proposal implies that the health status of the person will be the criterion for providing dental care and not age, diagnosis or receiving specific municipal services, as it is today. The Committee also proposes that those with a failing health should be offered dental care prior to the course of the disease than is the case at present. I think this is interesting suggestions. In the near future, the government will decide on a further follow-up to the proposals made in this public inquiry. This will include the proposals to be followed, the timetable for follow-up and the form in which the case is to be presented to the Stortinget. The government has stated in the Soria Moria Declaration that we will start work on a public dental reform. Dental care for the elderly will be one of the key discussions we are about to engage in in this work. The representative asked if I would like to take the initiative to upgrade dental care for the elderly in the care message. My answer is that the organisation and funding of dental services for the elderly in the first place will be assessed in the follow-up to the dental investigation. The main reason for this is that I think it is important to consider dental care for the elderly in relation to the total public exposure in the dental field, which includes the entire population. However, something might also be mentioned in the above-mentioned care message, as it is obvious that there are many groups of elderly people who need a better offer than is the case today.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-02.ana.ud973e729	I would like to thank the Council of State for its response. I am very pleased that the Council of State points out that there will be and is need for greater attention around the future health of the elderly. It is true that much better reimbursement arrangements have been provided in different areas to different groups in recent years. I've been especially concerned with the elderly today, and there are maybe two things I want to highlight in particular: it's that those who either have home care or are in a nursing home, actually have free dental treatment, and those who live at home, don't have it. I would probably like the Council of State to take this very thing along and evaluate it in the context of the care notification, as well as training staff to get more focus on the dental health of those who are under public care. The Council of State also said that some of this might be followed up in the care notification. That's especially these two points I'm concerned with. There is a great danger that some older people, when their dental health is scratching and they are not allowed to take care of their teeth in a good enough way, whether they are in a nursing home or in their own home, receive nutritional problems. They may not be able to chew – they are no longer chewing. They have problems getting enough nourishment when the chewing function is gone. We also know that we live longer, and that more of that reason becomes age dentures, and then you can easily forget to take care of your teeth. It is positive that the Council of State says that there is every reason to go through this, and that in a short time the Government will decide on the follow-up of the NOU. I look forward to this work, but again I hope that the Council of State, specifically in the two areas I have mentioned today, can take this with me and assess whether it is possible to address it already in the announced call for care of the elderly. The elderly really can't wait that long to get a better dental health.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-02.ana.ud973e740	The government will follow up, as promised in the Soria Moria Declaration. I perceive that there is no disagreement between the representative Davøy and me about where we want to go. It's quite obvious, I repeat it, that there are some older, but also some other people in this country that the public should be more prepared for, so that they can take care of their teeth – to say it very simply. In the case of interventions for the elderly in particular, some of it may be mentioned in the message that has been notified to us, but some of it should probably also be seen in the context of what we are doing in this area in total. But we'll get back to that, and we'll get back to it pretty quickly. I think the most important thing, which the representative is also concerned about in the case of the elderly, is to ensure that we have laws and rules that are followed up in practice. We now have a situation where some older people live at home, and there is reason to believe that they do not get the follow-up in terms of the dental care they should have. Against this background, I signal that we obviously have to go through the legislation, so that it works in practice – it may be in relation to some residents, but also, as the representative says, in relation to a part that is already in the hospital or institution today. We're going to follow this up, and we're going to follow up. We'll be back in a short time, and of course I'll take the signals that come from Stortinget in that way.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-02.ana.ud973e751	The interpellant focuses on one area of dental health that is important, among many more. That the teeth are part of the body and thus have to be seen in context, we probably agree. That older people have special problems is also something we can agree on. But there are many more aspects of this matter that it is also important to bring with them. The results of the examinations carried out are given in the Official Journal of the Dental Association, Official Journal No. 10/2005, shows that two thirds of those asked consider their own dental health to be good. 9 pst. I thought it was bad. In this study, there was no correlation between the region of residence and the assessment of health elsewhere. But we find most toothless among the oldest who live in small municipalities, and among those who have low income. In this case, it is important to find out that many people consider their dental health to be good. And then we'll look at those who don't. Now 2005:11 shows that dental health has improved quite well in recent decades, but geographical differences exist. It's more unfavorable to come from a district, and perhaps especially from the north, and there's also a lot of social difference. Increased availability and increased focus in several stages may be measures that can improve this. When you talk about increased availability, it means dentists and dentists, and that once again means the need for increased educational capacity for both of these professionals. Many older people live at home longer, and many get help from home service. It should be a matter of course that the dental care is part of the care and the offer given. Medicines, poor nutrition and oral dryness disorders, such as interpellant, are known challenges in home morbidity. Sometimes it can be enough with good tips and advice or change of habits, while sometimes it needs more help. Older people in institutions experience, as the Council of State mentions, wide variation in quality and supply. An article in the Newspaper of April 25 shows exactly this. It could be because the procedures and routines that work after it are not good enough, because the focus on the gear is not always the best, or because in a busy everyday life it is taken a little lightly on it or left to the individual. We also have to remember that cleaning your teeth is a lot of people who want to do it on their own, and that's something that it's important to be allowed to do as far as possible. But there's a lot that can be done with simple grips, like this. what was mentioned in the reply to the Council of State, that the County Dental Service comes and guides the institutions, that it becomes a more important part of the education of health professionals, and that nutrition, health, dental health and well-being belong together. Prevention is better than repair, both for those who live at home, and for those who live in institutions. The NOU also refers to groups other than those that the interpellant asks about. We've already kept some of this in our first budget. The supply of drug addicts and prison inmates has improved considerably. There are groups who have poor dental health and who get older as well. They have poor finances and little available support for the care of their teeth. The feedback we now receive from different parts of the country shows that this is well received. We were in Larvik, visiting a methadone project. There we received feedback that getting an offer to set their teeth is important. It is also important to think that this is a group that is growing older. Notices we get from Rogaland show exactly the same thing, so here's reason to be satisfied with what we've done. But now when we look at the NOU, we see that it's necessary to look at multiple sides of the dental health. It's about attitudes, prevention and education, and, of course, economics. We will meet again, as the Council of State said, both when we deal with the NOU and when we receive the care message.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-02.ana.ud973e770	First, I want to thank the interpellant for the problem that is raised here, but I will also be allowed to say that this is not a new issue. This is a problem that has been going on over the years, in fact for many years, so it's high time we were able to do something about it. At least from the point of view of the signed and advanced parties, the case was probably related to periodontite and to the rehabilitation of dental records in connection with the disease in many ways a breakthrough in the case of reimbursement. In this regard, I am at least reasonably happy to have been involved and fought through that matter on behalf of the Progress Party. I also think this has a little bit to do with how we look at what has to do with reimbursement. If we go in and look at the legislation contained in the People's Security Act relating to reimbursement, it's quite obvious that the issue of the oral cavity is almost taken out of the reimbursement system, except for a few things, and of course, except for the groups that we've been in for free dental treatment. It should also be lacking that the exact group that currently has free dental treatment should not have it. So I would just like to add a few comments to the call that the interpellant is going to make, if you can include this in the care message that comes in the summer. The care message will be dealt with in Stortingen, so it will only be up to Stortingen whether this is also inserted as a topic. The request has been addressed to the Council of State that she at least mention it and start the debate. However, the Storting itself determines what you take in the form of comments and suggestions when the care notification is addressed in this room. We have great opportunities for that. I think it's important that we also focus a little bit on the service being given. I don't think we're going to get that far if we're just going to drive and talk about repair. It is important that we take into account what is involved in the prevention and rehabilitation of the dental kit. It turns out that there are very wide variations from the address of residence on what kind of measures you get. It's quite obvious that in some cases it's actually more reasonable to pull your teeth instead of rehabilizing your tooth set. Is it worth it? I think we have to look at the legislation relating to the service that each individual will receive. So the interpellant takes up a very important issue related to the difference between those who have been given an institutional space, and those who may be meeting the requirement to get an institutional place, but who have not come in, or where the family has actually taken responsibility for helping the individual at home. In this respect, I would actually recommend that the Council of State consider whether to consider whether the right to reimbursement for dental treatment should be linked to whether or not to meet the requirement of an institution, rather than to look at whether or not to be in an institution, so that this group can also have the opportunity to get help. I think it's clearly a relationship between bad teethets and what has to do with the intake of food. In fact, we are at risk of being undernourished because of the discomfort of chewing the food, which in turn will lead to hospitalization and loss of life in the long term. Furthermore, it is quite obvious that we cannot just say that it is the responsibility of the nursing staff to provide dental hygiene in the institutions. We also need to take in the time pressure that is actually in many of the institutions today, and the time pressure that is in the home care and home care system, and the short time that they have available to the individual user. We also have to look at it in the same context. I think the most important thing we can do now is to focus on the issue, show that we want to do something, and that there must also be clear rights for the individual as to what to follow up, and that you get clear and good guidelines as to what kind of services the individual should have, regardless of the address of residence. Some of the problems we see today are that there are great differences between local and regional levels of supply.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-02.ana.ud973e789	It has been claimed that dentistry is a stepchild of health policy. A thorough debate on public engagement in this area is therefore timely. I will give tribute to the interpellant for putting this question on the agenda. Norwegian dentistry is generally good, and it has improved over the last decades, as the Council of State was also concerned. This is not least due to prevention measures against children and young people. The majority of the Norwegian population have a good economy and relatively low expenditure on dental health. In view of this, the Right conclusion in NOU 2005:11 supports the absence of a general reimbursement scheme for dental expenditure for adults. At the same time, some people have very bad dental health. This can lead to severe pains and problems in eating, and it is perceived as socially stressful, which have also been experienced by many. Such dental problems particularly affect those with drug problems, sick elderly, chronically ill and people with mental disorders. Some also have so low income over time that they have problems covering the expenses of a dentist. In particular, in view of the need to strengthen the provision of health services to these groups, the Cooperative Government set up a public body to carry out various dental services. The right and co-operation government started work on strengthening dental care for those who need it the most, and we believe this is the main direction for the further work in the dental field. The co-operation administration provided a significant extension of the provision of lowthreshold services to drug addicts from 11 million. DKr distributed over 8 municipalities in 2001, to SEK 54 million. SEK to 38 municipalities in 2005. Under this initiative, funds were allocated to low-threshold services, such as health care. are established in Oslo. It has given very many drug users better health, and, as many have also said, a new start to life. People with mental health disorders also have a special need for better dental care. The mental illness may in itself affect the patient’s ability to care for dental health. In addition, the use of the psychopharmaceutical leads to oral dryness, which too many cause significant dental problems. In view of the fact that mental health protection is now evolving towards more follow-up in the community, many mentally ill people will lose the right to the coverage of dental treatment related to long-term institution stay. The right would stress that this patient group should be given better and not worse rights to dental care. There is evidence that some elderly sick people have very poor dental health and that dental health is not adequately cared for in the public care service. It is unacceptable and unworthy that sick elderly people experience painful dental problems as a result of lack of help for basic dental hygiene. Therefore, the work on preventive dental treatment needs to be intensified in the area of healthcare. Another main challenge in the dental field has been the recruitment of dentists and dentists to some districts. The co-operation administration therefore launched an action plan to increase the recruitment of dental professionals, and everyone is well aware of the new dental study in Tromsø, which was established during the co-operation administration and will contribute to better recruitment in North Norway. However, the right is critical of many of the regulatory proposals presented in NOU 2005:11. Bureaucracies such as their own dental directorate, establishment control and price regulation can lead to a weakening of the provision of dental services and thus a lower dental provision to the population. A study conducted by Opinion on behalf of the Consumer Council shows that 98 pst. by the asked ones are satisfied with their dentist. In the study 75 pst. professional competence is the most important criterion when choosing a dentist, followed by 9 pst. Which says that location means most, and 8 pst. which considers that the price is decisive. This suggests that there is no reason to make dramatic changes in dental management for the vast majority of patients. The measures, which I had in mind, must be aimed at better assistance for those who need it most, the elderly, drug users, mentally ill and chronically ill patients, who were also involved in their interventions by the Council of State. I think it's good that there might be something about it in the care notification, but I actually agree with the government council that it is important to get a comprehensive review for more groups and look at these issues in a larger context, and we look forward to getting a case here to the Storting so that we can all join in and discuss these issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-02.ana.ud973e810	The aim of dental policy should be to achieve the highest possible level of provision for the whole population, so that the individual’s economy does not constitute a barrier to good dental health. Today, we know that some groups of adults have particularly high expenditures because they fall outside the scope of public dentistry or public health. In addition, we know that these are often the same people who initially have a bad economy, and we know that the level of knowledge, awareness and good prevention opportunities also tend to vary with socioeconomic status. Having bad teeth is very stigmatized in our society, where more and more people can afford purely cosmetic interventions. In addition, it is painful, and it creates major problems in other areas. All of this shows that dental health is also, to the greatest extent, about social inequalities, both in health and in health, which we, as the majority parties on the Stortinget, and also the Government, have said that we should focus specifically on. In addition, there is a regional distribution problem here, as many have been involved, because there is a shortage of dentists in many parts of the country. SV has been busy with these things for many years. We cannot accept the unfairness of the fact that those who have the least, also receive the worst offer from the health service, or that it is the residence address that determines what kind of offer you get. Fortunately, a lot has happened in recent years, and several groups have been included in public exposure to better dental health. Thank you 2 is one example, and this ceiling lowered the government by NOK 1000 in the current year's budget. That's very good. Another example is drug addicts in treatment, which we also reinforced in the current year’s budget. We're also very pleased with that. However, many people still have their teeth pulled or do not receive adequate treatment, because dental care is too poor. We want to do something about that, and that is why we have written in the government statement that we want to ‘start work on public dental reform’. We're looking forward to that. Norway has never had a dental offer similar to the general health service in terms of reimbursement from social security, and it is therefore a long way to go before the dental service can be considered to be equivalent to the healthcare provision in the case of public reimbursement schemes. Thus, in order to improve this service and public reimbursements linked to it, it is necessary to identify those groups that should be given priority in terms of better public offer or through reimbursement schemes from the public interest. We have great expectations for this. As the Council of State said, there are several elderly people who would have had their place in an institution in the past, who remain at home and receive care and health services outside the institution. In this way, we can risk not being subject to dental rights, and we need to correct this. Other, including: Sonja Sjøli and the interpellant seashore, have been involved in the consequences of poor and lack of teeth, e.g. in the case of pain and problems with nutrition, so I don't have to describe it further. The proposal that the Tann Health Committee is promoting, and to which the representative Davøy refers in his important interpellation, we believe is a good proposal. In addition, better knowledge of the auxiliaries is needed. SV also supports many other measures that are in the selection setting, but I will not go into them now, because we do not discuss this in all its width. But there's a lot that we have to deal with. In conclusion, many people over the years have pointed out that their teeth are part of the body, and it should have been strictly unnecessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-02.ana.ud973e825	Interpellant is engaged in dental care. In particular, she focuses on older residents and the discrimination that exists in the fact that older people in institutions receive at least a good number of places of satisfactory dental care, while residents are not covered by the same right. When we talk about dental health and plan dental health, it's important to have a long time perspective for this. Preventive dental work, I think, is a very important social investment. I think it's very good to see how the status of dental nurses increases, that the number of applications from schools to set up dental care studies is increasing, and that there are more and more applicants for this education. Because I think it's important to be able to differentiate the problems within dental care, where dentists actually have a very important function in terms of prevention, both among children and young people and, of course, among the elderly. In the Center Party, we are concerned about the differences we see in the availability of dental services, between many districts and cities. It's worse around in many districts. There is also a lower level of dental health, which is believed to be due to a lower availability of dental services. Therefore, it is important for the Centre Party to support measures that ensure better recruitment both for dentists and dental practitioners around the district of Norway. I think some of the suggestions in the TannHealth Committee's position are interesting, without having to decide on them. But when you talk about establishment control, you realize that there are areas in our country where there are too few dentists, and areas where there are actually quite many. The Dental Committee has a number of proposals, and I think it is important that a person be given the opportunity to evaluate them. I fully agree with the Council of State that the TannHealth Committee's proposal that the health status of the person should be the starting point for the right to dental care is interesting. The Soria Moria Declaration states that the Government should start work on a dental reform. I think it's very nice that you've been able to start off among the very weakest, namely by increasing the offer to the addicts. Then you get a step by step and see where there's actually the greatest need. When one today has differences between those who are in the institution and those who are resident but who may be qualified to be in the institution, I just think that the proposal that the health status of the person should be crucial is a very interesting proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-02.ana.ud973e836	I would also like to thank the interpellant for focusing on this important area of health. That's what it is -- dental health is also health. I should like to say quite quickly that the Left goes in so that dental treatment is equated with medical visits, so that a person is given a reimbursement scheme with an essential system. A public funding of dental treatment will be fair to everyone, in our opinion. Today it's actually so that many drops of dental visits because it's too expensive. There are many groups involved. It shall apply, inter alia, to: students, groups of chroniclers and people with other personal or disease-related problems. The left is positive to give those who need the most, free dental treatment. Many drug addicts tire of poor teeth. Many people with eating disorders have very poor dental health and in some cases have to borrow to cover the costs of treatment. Today, we know that a pilot project to provide delayed groups of elderly people and unneeded free dental treatment has been successful. So one has some experience building on. NOU 2005:11, which has been mentioned before, about the public engagement in the dental field, has introduced the epitome of «persons with disabilities» as a new category instead of the old «group C», which describes those who had already passed the laws on dental services. Left thinks we have to go much further. In many low-income families, we know that dental health is a very low priority. Many with low incomes drop dental examinations, with the result that the problems and costs are growing. The left-hand side suggests that people with an income of less than 2G should receive free dental treatment. Bad dental health is socially stigmatizing, as we have heard many other sayings. For some groups, social contact can be prevented, and it makes it difficult to obtain work. In addition, there are often severe pains associated with having poor dental health. There is considerable consensus that there are no professional reasons why dental treatment should be separated from other medical treatments. In light of this, the Left believes that a publicly funded system attached to dental treatment will give postpone groups dignity and ensure better dental health for the whole people. I mean, after listening to all the speeches earlier in this debate today, it's quite reasonable to interpret it so that an improvement in the dental care provision of older and different disadvantaged groups has multiples in this room. Now the government has two opportunities to show what they want to do. I then of course think about the alert and also about the follow-up of NOU 2005:11. I look forward to handling these matters. Left wants to signal an offensive hold in view of a tightening of the current dental supply in the Kingdom.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-02.ana.ud973e852	First of all, I want to thank the interpellant for bringing up this topic. It's both instructive and rewarding. But as has been said, this is not a new topic. In fact, in a 1998 survey on dementia, 53 pst. had too poor oral hygiene. That study clearly concluded that the nursing staff had insufficient knowledge of dental and oral care. A new survey was carried out in 2001. Then it was seen that the number of those who had too poor mouthpieces had sunk to 34 pst. There has been a change in attitude among nursing staff working with the elderly. In 2005, the dental health of the elderly was examined in greater detail. New facts show that many people have tooth decay and other problems with their teeth, 32 pst. have problems chewing, eating and swallowing, and about 20 pst. have mouth dryness problems as well. To help in this, dental care needs to be prioritised in curricula and in nursing training, and the awareness-raising work in this field needs to be intensified. The training places that train nurses and caregivers place too little emphasis on this part of health, and this needs to be changed. The parents of institutions and those receiving services from home health care are entitled to dental care, and they should also be assisted in dental hygiene where they need assistance. Nursing staff shall actively monitor this. A continued improvement in the dental health of the elderly will lead to a better general condition and must be prioritised. Not least health professionals must then be given sufficient time, competence and education to ensure that this can be properly implemented. There is clearly a challenge here in Norway, not least when we know that in the dental sector we will have to undergo a very large structural change, as the county that is known to be on the way out. We need to find sensible solutions to this, so that we get an implementation that creates security for the people of Norway and that we know that we have access to dental services.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-02.ana.ud973e865	I want to thank the Council of State for the answers she has given, and also the others who have been engaged in a very lively, interesting and good debate. I agree with the Council of State that laws and regulations must be followed up in practice, and it is gratifying that both laws and rules will be reviewed. I think it's very important to look at routines in relation to the staff. It must be just as important to take care of the oral cavity and work preventively with oral health as it is for the rest of the body. This may need to be focused on immediately, even independently of new age levels. But an ageing plan or a message will provide a very good incentive, and will be a good tool when you look together at quality, because dental health is also about quality and health services, as I see it. Harald Nesvik stated that the requirement for free dental health could be that you had a condition that met the requirement to have an institutional place. That's one way to think about it. As I have thought, having a functional loss – that you are simply no longer able to take care of your teeth yourself – may be the best starting point for looking at this. Sonja Sjøli says that an overall review is necessary and that much needs to be looked at in the context. I agree with that as well, while I clearly see that many older people have little time to wait. The health situation is very fast when the dental health is not taken care of, and we know that when the inequalities are so big already, there are some older people who today live with too many problems related to dental health. Things take time. There's a lot of work the government is going through. Follow-up to NOU 2005:11 concerns many, many important groups and dental health. That is why I hope once again that the Council of State will look closely at the two points that I have specifically raised today, and I thank you again for signaling that something can go faster in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-02.ana.ud973e878	It seems that there is a broad consensus that improvements are needed, and that dental health has not been given enough attention before. It's quite obvious that we have to do something about it. There's no doubt that tanthelsa matters to health, and I would say also to self-confidence. In particular, we have received very clear feedback on this with regard to people who have problems with alcohol. That's also why we, as the Stortinget is of course very familiar with, proposed and adopted more money for people with drug problems, in order to improve dentistry as early as this year. We've started, and we're going to move on. Of course, I want to come back to the Stortinget, as I have warned, in a suitable way, so that we can go further in terms of both content and proposals for action, and in terms of which groups this should include – of course, there are parts of the group of older people.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-02.ana.ud973e887	The Interpellation Debate on Case No. So 5 is going to end.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-02.ana.ud973e901	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2014]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-02.ana.ud973e917	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after the intervention of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 5 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-02.ana.ud973e926	We are going to consider the proposal of the Christian People's Party on the maximum withdrawal time every week for children in kindergarten. The proposers want such a restriction, and they want the Government to monitor the provision and need for child care in the evening and night. In the Committee's position, the Christian People's Party is solely concerned with that view and that proposal. The other parties are not in favour of such legal regulation as the Christian People's Party wishes, and they will probably do their best in the debate. For the Workers' Party, the most important thing in the kindergarten debate is that we get to expand reasonable kindergartens, with good quality pedagogical provision, to everyone who wants it. We have very big ambitions on behalf of a very important sector, for the best for the children. Today, the phenomenon of kindergartens that are open beyond what we often know as normal working hours is relatively small in scope. Equally full, some people will have a need for kindergarten space at times other than the usual opening hours, for different reasons. Then we're positive that it's creating such a supply. The legislation we have today provides for that, and we want to keep that legislation. In the proposal of the Christian People's Party, an easy impression can be that legal regulation of child care stays is necessary to ensure that parents have enough time with their children. In the Labour Party, we are convinced that parents are essentially doing everything they can to get together with their kids, and that legal regulation to prevent children from being too long in kindergarten is therefore not the way to go. In the past, I have come to realize that the Christian People's Party is largely concerned about parents' choice, because it is parents who know best for their children. Now it looks as if there is too much freedom of choice that is concerned, or perhaps even that parents choose something that is not necessarily just as the Christian People's Party would wish. In the Labour Party, we don't have that concern. On the contrary, we believe that an offer that ensures that children get good quality in kindergarten and that parents can get to work is positive, also for the relationship between parents and children and for the time they have together. The municipality is currently responsible for the provision of childcare facilities, and it is also the municipality that must therefore assess whether there is a need for other or extended opening hours in kindergartens, depending on the needs of the individual municipality. We still think it should be like this, and think that the municipalities together with the parents are well able to assess the need for opening hours and how long the individual child will be in the nursery. Where, according to local circumstances, an extended opening time is relevant, we are positive that municipalities have flexibility in their opening hours. That possibility has been there for many years. It is important, as we will continue with that practice, to give a positive signal to those who think more flexible opening hours in kindergarten will be positive for the children and for the parents of the children who go to kindergarten. We are convinced that the pedagogical role of kindergarten is well preserved, even if some kindergartens should have opening hours beyond what is considered normal working hours. In this setting, it seems that this whole debate came out as a result of a newspaper lookup in winter, where the Council of State and the Secretary of State expressed themselves positively to night-open kindergartens. So they said they were positive about the legislation we have today. I've read that paper and I totally agree with what the Secretary of State says, which is a reflected picture of what is commonplace for many children and young children's parents today. Today's legislation allows you to meet these needs depending on the state of the municipality. This is not a debate that the nursery should take the children from parents, but a debate on how the nursery can also be involved and make everyday life a little easier for some young children and young children’s parents. A regulation of the law, as the Christian People's Party wishes, is not, in the Committee's opinion, the way to go. The majority also do not see the need for the Government to monitor the need for child care in the evening and night. The position of the majority in the Committee is therefore that the proposal is not accepted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-02.ana.ud973e958	The family is the natural framework for growth. We in the Right trust that the families are the best-shoeed, at least essentially, to decorate their own everyday life in relation to how to care for their children, and to facilitate how best to do so. To what extent you want to use kindergarten, for us, is a natural part of that picture. Therefore, the nursery provision should be complex and should be diverse so that families with different types of needs can find arrangements that are appropriate for them. Working towards that, we believe that we have a good grasp of different types of kindergartens, where private kindergartens are an important contribution. To the extent that this can be planned, we insist that it is the municipalities that are closest to seeing the needs of the individual area. We have therefore concluded that it is not a good solution to regulate some maximum time. Not so to understand that we think it's an advantage that children are very, very long in kindergarten, but what needs to be understood as long, and how to deal with it, must therefore be the concern of the individual family. We don't think there's any reason to intervene, given the figures and knowledge we have today about the use of kindergartens. The fact that the family has time for its children is a value in itself, a value that we will contribute to building up through different schemes: child welfare, cash support and other measures that can provide vulnerable groups with special needs. But going in with such a clear intervention as proposed here, we won't support it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-02.ana.ud973e972	The proposers in Document No. 8:32 believes that there is a need for a change in the law that limits children’s weekly periods of residence in kindergarten, and that it is mainly the labour market that should adapt to family life, not the opposite. The Socialist Left agrees that it is the labour market that needs to adapt to family life, but we will not support the proposal for a maximum weekly stay in kindergarten. There are several different reasons why a person wants to extend the opening time in kindergartens. It is the needs of each family and the possibility of greater freedom of choice that are the reason for wanting to facilitate an extended opening time. Lone caregivers with shift and tour work have great problems getting their daily lives around. Children of parents with shiftwork and tours often have to have babysitting first at night and then babysitting by day. Clearly, there would have been less stress both for the child and for the family that the child slept in the nursery at the times it was necessary, and wake up to the good pedagogical offer that a kindergarten is in the day. There is no link between the possible need for night open kindergartens and the role of kindergartens as educational provision during the day. Kindergarten's pedagogical offer is not impaired if any children sleep there at night, with supervision. Many kindergartens have had overnight stays as an extra offer to children in kindergarten for several years. I do not understand how the proposers can claim that this affects the pedagogical content of the kindergarten. That is the reason given by this speaker. Local orphanage authorities are the municipalities and local authorities must therefore assess the need for opening hours in kindergartens, including, where appropriate, night-time kindergartens. The law that is used today for kindergartens that are open at night, we have had the last ten years. Kindergarten owners who wish to keep the nursery open beyond daytime must have special approval from the municipality. It is the municipalities, such as the local nursery authority, that have to identify the need for kindergartens, including the need for childcare during evening and night time. This, of course, can be done by local authorities, which know best the local needs and measures. It is the municipalities that are best placed to assess their offer to their inhabitants. Parents who receive child care benefits may either use this benefit for private solutions or use it for kindergartens. We therefore believe that there is no need to monitor this need on the part of the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-02.ana.ud973e987	Parents with young children need time to be together with their children. Good schemes are therefore needed to combine participation in employment with good and stable childcare. On the basis of the government's signal of extended opening time in the kindergarten in Dagsavies 18 January this year, the Christian People's Party is presenting proposals for a change that has set a limit on how long the child can be in kindergarten. Fortunately, the government does not want to change the law in this area, and it may not want to follow up other proposals launched in the media, such as divorce. Nevertheless, the government has sent a clear call via the media to the kindergartens to extend the opening time within today's legislation to fix the time frame. Children need leisure and sleep, and the Christian People's Party is concerned that longer opening hours can lead to increased pressures on longer working days for parents. Just as adults, children need time off and sleep. The Christian People's Party has therefore submitted a proposal for a maximum weekly rest period in kindergarten. In the case of adults, work and leisure are regulated by the Working Environment Act. Just as adults, children also need leisure time. We also need to look at alternatives other than day-old kindergartens to help those who need childcare in the evening and night. That is why we have asked the Government to address the need for childcare in the evening and at night and to make suggestions on how it can be resolved. In addition to the fact that the nursery is a care facility, the nursery should be a pedagogical activity. The Christian People's Party believes a general approach to day-old kindergartens will weaken the kindergarten as a pedagogical offer. As we know, preschool teachers are a shortcoming. In case of increased opening hours, the same pre-school teachers and other staff will have to cover a longer period of time. Already today there is hardly any staff in the morning and afternoon. Increased opening time, e.g. From 7 to 18, this will give you a longer period of one or at best two growths in the department. The pedagogical activity takes place in addition to daytime. The representative of May Hansen was concerned with the relationship to educational quality. If you get a lot of new night-old kindergartens without changing the regulation in relation to staffing, it is clear that there is already a pressure to get enough preschool teachers, as it is in kindergarten today. The kindergarten shall convey values and culture, provide room for children's own cultural creation and help all children to experience joy and maesterdom in a social and cultural community. That's what the nursery's task is. Kinderhagen cannot meet all needs. The Christian People's Party is moving towards a notion that children will be longer in kindergarten in order to fix the time squeeze. If young children’s parents with day work do not have the opportunity to pick up their child after ten hours in kindergarten, it is the labour market that needs to adapt to the needs of young people and their families and not the other way around. We want to ensure that the children are well cared for. The case spokesperson was concerned about whether the Christian People’s Party was concerned about the freedom of choice. We're not. The errand of the Christian People's Party is not to shorten the opening time of the day in kindergartens or to ban night-old kindergartens. But we need to focus on the most important thing. The main objectives of kindergarten policy are to get full child care coverage with good quality and then to reduce the maximum price. Then, in the daytime, the offer must be first priority. The Christian People's Party is concerned that the quality of kindergarten is falling as the focus on price, space and opening time becomes one-off. Several kindergartens experience pressure from the municipality to create new departments within the same area and cut down on staff. We must not miss the quality of vision in eagerness to achieve all other objectives of kindergarten policy. Several parents have expressed concerns such as: because one of them has a longer opening time, does not require an additional crew. It is important that we keep our focus on quality, because when grandchildren deliver children in kindergarten, they want the children to feel good and safe when they are there. It is an important provision of care and education. It's the everyday life of our children that gets framed if we don't care about quality. The Progress Party has in its programme its view of kindergartens that there is an efficiency potential in kindergartens. I wonder which kindergartens the Progress Party has found that has too many adults and too much space. For the Christian People's Party, it is a goal that the children who go to kindergarten should have a good everyday life with adequate room for leisure and sleep. Then we'll have to get enough places and keep the good quality that's at stake in Kinderhagelova, and avoid the kids getting so long in the kindergarten that they don't have time and plenty of time to get along with family and friends in the community. Finally, I would like to make the suggestions that the Christian People's Party has in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-02.ana.ud973e1017	The representative of May-Helen Molvær Grimstad has drawn up the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-02.ana.ud973e1020	Proposal providers are concerned that flexible-uptime kindergartens do not have to become a system that increases the pressure in longer working days. I wrote that down. I share the concerns of the proposers if developments are to make family life more adaptable to the labour market, and not vice versa. In several areas, developments have been the opposite for a long time, that working life has increasingly adapted to family life. It's got a lot of stuff. made through increasingly better leave arrangements for young children’s parents. It's a desirable development, and we have to be careful not to reverse this development. There are many families with children who know that they get too little time together, not least in the small children’s phase. The centre party would therefore like to contribute to the further development and targeting of existing schemes and propose new tools to help provide a better framework for the first years of life for children. Full childcare coverage and better leave arrangements for young children’s parents are two important objectives for the sitting government, and we are already delivering. More flexible opening times in kindergartens could be a good supply for several families, so that parents can more easily combine work and care for their own children. This is particularly true for parents who work shifts or turns. Both employers and kindergartens have a responsibility to provide solutions that allow families to be more together, while parents may be active. It is important that this is done in ways that do not make it harder for parents to resist pressure from employers to work longer days. I'd like to think there's a deal in this room that there's limits to how long children have a good time in kindergarten, and I like to negotiate that the kids need time with their parents. But the best people know this is parents themselves. Regardless of the opening hours in the nursery, I am therefore confident that parents will arrange themselves in such a way that they can have time with their children. The batch centre cannot support the proposal for a maximum hold time per. week in kindergarten. We also mean, as the plurality does, that there is no link between the possible need for night-time kindergartens and the role of kindergartens as educational provision in the daytime. I want to remind you, as many others have done before me, that there is already a code for kindergartens that are open at night. This code says that kindergarten owners who want to stay open beyond daytime must have special approval from the municipality. It is the municipality as a local track has a memory, not the state, which has to assess the trough for extended opening times in kindergartens. The center part wants it to continue like this, and we don't want a state override and detailed regulation of the local children's memory in this area. The centre party is confident that parents will accommodate themselves for their own good and that of the family. We also have confidence in the municipalities as local children's facilities. At the same time, there has to be a challenge for employers, both public and private, that they also contribute to good solutions that meet young children’s parents’ desire for time with their own children.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-02.ana.ud973e1035	The proposal of the May-Helen Molvær Grimstad, Hans Olav Syversen and Bjørg Tørersdal concerns the question of the maximum weekly stay of children in kindergarten and the question of identifying the need for child care in the evening and night. With regard to the question of the maximum weekly residence period for children in kindergarten, I agree with the proposers that it is mainly the labour market to adapt to family life, not the opposite. However, it does not mean that the Government has given signals of increased opening time in kindergartens. The legislation we have today for kindergartens that are open at night, we have had the last ten years. The government has no plans to change this, nor has it signaled. It is the municipalities as the local nursery authority that have to assess the need for any night open kindergartens. I have the confidence in parents that they can assess for themselves what is best for their child in cases where they cannot take care of the children themselves at night. The Ministry has also not received any enquiries indicating that there is a need to regulate children’s residence in kindergarten by law. I believe that parents and kindergarten owners have the best conditions for finding solutions that benefit both families and children. I cannot see today that there is a need for children's playground during the night, so I will deprive them of the possibility of a pedagogical offer during the day. As regards the need for child care in the evening and night, it is the municipality that is responsible for identifying the need for kindergartens. I believe that they should also identify the need for child care during evening and night hours and, where appropriate, provide a nightly offer if specific circumstances indicate a need for it. I mean the code we have today works well enough. The proposers point out that only parents today receive support for child care. Such a benefit can be used to pay both for private solutions and for kindergarten. On this basis, I have no plans to investigate this issue further.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-02.ana.ud973e1046	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-02.ana.ud973e1050	State Council Djupedal says that the Government has not given any signal about the night-time kindergartens. According to the statement in the Newspaper, to which this has been referred, it seems that there was some new signal coming from the Government – at least it was clear both in the headline and in the ingress, but it may have our wrong angle. There were a lot of requests from the media for someone to debate. We learned that no one from the Government, neither the Council of State nor anyone else, would be involved in and debate this. How would we interpret that? What was it really about a non-debate? If it was such that there was nothing in it, one could have set up a media debate right away and rejected it. But what I'm asking about the challenges we have about quality in today's kindergartens is about the Council of State Djupedal, with all these measures that we want to achieve, like full kindergarten coverage, is concerned that quality can be under pressure? And what will the Council of State do with that?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-02.ana.ud973e1057	Firstly, it does not mean that our government, by either myself or my State Secretary, has expressed a desire to change today's legislation. It has been there for ten years, and it is kindergarten and parents who together have to deal with the legislation, so that you get your everyday life to hang together. We have not signalled any changes to this legislation, which the previous government has not changed either. In terms of the quality of kindergartens, our government is very concerned about it. We have just adopted the framework plan for kindergartens, and we have, of course, focused on the quality of – to say – kindergartens’ curricula or curricula. In addition, we have strengthened the possibility of dispensation for educational leaders in the event that they cannot obtain pedagogical staff. So in many different ways, we're now strengthening the quality, with the combination of three things: we're building up kindergartens at a pace we haven't seen before, we're setting the price down to a level that's starting to be very acceptable, and we're also maintaining and strengthening the quality. So we're doing all that parents who have children in kindergarten want us to do. This is one of our government's most important areas of activity.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-02.ana.ud973e1064	No more words have been asked for a line. Nor has anyone asked for the word on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox [[Food, see page 2014]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-02.ana.ud973e1074	We're going to vote on case number. 1 to 4 and 6 to 7 on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-02.ana.ud973e1082	During the debate, Mr Hagen has presented three proposals on behalf of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-02.ana.ud973e1155	During the debate, Mr Gjermund Hagesetter presented three proposals on behalf of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-02.ana.ud973e1211	In Case No. 5 introduces no voting theme.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-02.ana.ud973e1234	During the debate May-Helen Molvær Grimstad has presented two proposals on behalf of the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-02.ana.ud973e1329	This way, today's maps are processed. Does anyone ask for the word in relation to § 37a of Stortinget’s Rules of Procedure? - The meeting is over.
