ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-11.ana.ud429e45	The representative Hans Olav Syversen shall apply for leave from 11 December to 13 December to attend the conference of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly in Washington. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The application shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The representative of the goods, Aud Kvalbein, is invited to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-11.ana.ud429e63	Aud Kvalbein is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-11.ana.ud429e69	The President will propose the election of two presidents for the Stortinges meetings today and for the rest of the current week – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Sigvald Uppøen Hansen and Gunn Olsen. – Other proposals are not available, and Sigvald Oppebøen Hansen and Gunn Olsen are unanimously elected as presidents of the current week’s meetings. At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President proposes that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 1, 2 and 3 are dealt with as a whole, and consider it to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-11.ana.ud429e109	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 2 hours and 5 minutes, and that the speaking time be distributed as follows: the working party 40 minutes, the Progress Party 25 minutes, the Right 15 minutes, the Socialist Left Party 15 minutes, the Christian People's Party 10 minutes, the Central Party 10 minutes and the Left 10 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers of each party group and five lines with replies after the contributions of members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-11.ana.ud429e118	First, I would like to take the opportunity to thank the Committee for its good and constructive cooperation. It has been very intense, but there have been good contributions from all parties in the committee. And it is – as a small remark – interesting to see that if nothing else, with the draft budget it has presented, the Government has managed to bring together the opposition parties quite well. It is in good economic times that we can and must invest for the future. Norway now has historically good times and fantastic opportunities to look for more than one year to come. That's why, in the Right's alternative budget, we put up a huge and very offensive investment in knowledge and research. We proposed to strengthen this budget area by DKK 1.1 billion in relation to the Government's draft budget. The right is not alone in overcoming the government's budget profile this autumn. From the University and Higher Education Council, the Swedish Research Association, the Norwegian Research Council, Abelia, Norsk Studentunion, the National Association of Students, the Academics, the Principal Organisation of Business and Service Industries, NATO, NITO, the Norwegian Industry, NHO, Tekna, Unio, YS, the University of Oslo, the University of Environment and Life Sciences, the University of Bergen, NTNU, the University of Tromsø and the University of Stavanger received a letter of strong criticism of the research profile in the Government's budget proposals on 15 October. There is a collective higher education and research environment that speaks, but their voice unfortunately did not make any special mention of the government. It is possible that government parties believe that the whole spectrum of organisations and institutions in the educational and research communities is wrong. But in that case, the government parties are the only ones who mean it. For all those who have followed the government parties – the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre Party – for four years in opposition, through election campaigns and government negotiations, through the Soria Moria Declaration and subsequent rhetoric, there is only one thing to say: Government has sold a product it does not deliver. The government has sold an Audi, but delivers a Lada. The right's alternative budget proposals are broad and varied. We proposed to correct the big government cut of 275 million. kr to universities and colleges. It is a small shave-back cut, precisely because the government does not want the sea to take the burden of seeing where the money is to be taken from. You just tell universities and colleges that you expect exactly the same activity in 2007, but for 275 million. kr less. Reality is less research activity, poorer quality of study and education and a significant loss of motivation for a sector that has been and is in the midst of a major shift in quality reform. The right proposed to grant money for 350 new scholarship positions, in line with the stepping-up plan of the Research Communication. 250 of these were to go to universities and colleges and 100 to free projects through the Research Council. In the budget proposal, the government writes that there is a great need to train new researchers in Norway. Nevertheless, the Government draws the most eye-catching conclusion that the escalation plan should be broken and that no funds should be allocated to a single new fellow in 2007. It's unwise, and it's a direct breach of a cross-politically adopted escalation plan. In order for Norway to achieve the agreed targets of 3 pst. research into GDP by 2010 is useless to use research and higher education as a balancing item year after year. A decision such as this requires significant, sustained and predictable public efforts. It is very unlikely that the Djupedal Council regrets that industry is researching too little, while the public's share of research funding goes down, and the Government without notice and investigation kittens 150 million. kr in the SkattenFUNN scheme – an unbureaucratic, successful scheme, which is just helping business to research more. In the Right's Alternative Budget, we also added 25 billion extra to the Research Fund in addition to the Government's proposal. It would ensure SEK 1.1 billion more in return in 2008 – money that would be earmarked for research purposes. That means that the fund's capital would be $85 billion with the Right proposal. It is very important to invest in the construction of the fund capital in order to ensure the long-term and predictability of the research it needs. Research is preparing society to deal with new challenges, and there are new challenges we do not know today. In addition, the right-hand side proposes to grant 180 million. kr for the acquisition of scientific equipment to strengthen the thematic initiatives and technology platforms. For the Right, it is important to see the coherence of the education system. What we do for the smallest children is important for the dropout in high school and for what kind of researchers we get. Therefore, the right-hand priority in its alternative budget is to strengthen initial training. The great reform of the previous government, the promise of knowledge, is being carried out this autumn. It should give all students more and better learning. In addition to the implementation, the Right proposes to grant money for an extra week's math at the nursery. When the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left were in government position from 2001 to 2005, the stage was extended by 12 hours of week, after a standstill in the 1990s. We have also proposed appropriations for the pilot project home-school cooperation and for better counselling. We have proposed halving the employer’s fee for new apprentices from 2007, and not least we have spent money on homework and on a project with voluntary summer schools, following the successful project in Oslo this summer. The right also proposes to contribute money to restore the capital grant to the primary schools. In our opinion, boarding schools should be an alternative for everyone, regardless of the financial position of their parents. Without foreseeable framework conditions, several fresh oils may have to be closed. The only alternative to public schools will then be clean private schools, where parents have to pay all the operating costs. The priests in the Norwegian Church do a very important job. In order to ensure that proste reform is carried out in a good way, it is important to secure money for more performers. Therefore, the right-hand side proposes to grant 15 million. kr for several performances, two of which are to be earmarked for student performances. Norway shall be a knowledge society in the fields of school, education and research. In the good times we have now, we have a real chance of putting images after us and preparing the basis for future generations. At these times it is totally incomprehensible that the Government, with the Federal Council of State Djupedal at its head, finds it reasonable to take a break in research and education policy. A rest cutting is usually a warning about weaker lap times and that the runner has faulted the forces. Never before have skaters taken rest cuts in the first round. When the government also serves a perfect finished research school at Simula, which initially needs political acceptance and next time 30 million. kr, thanks to the Government for refusing. Get it! Get it, get it, get it, get it, get it, get it, get it, get Outside the inner circle of the Government, it is hardly possible to recover someone who does not believe that the proposal for the 2007 research budget is an amicable reading. One chronicle and one article after another, written by some of the negroes in higher education and research, confirm this. That a government in the good times we have now is making dramatic cuts in knowledge and research is a clear signal of a lack of willingness to prioritize the future. In addition, when State Council Djupedal believes that these cuts are the expression of offensive policies and major ambitions, it must be allowed to ask whether the Council of State has at all come up with what a collective Knowledge and Research Norway has tried to tell. Mr. Kolbjørn Hagen, who is the retiring head of the Swedish Research Association, said during the presentation that it was a black day for Norwegian research. In the 2006 draft budget, the Bondevik II Government presented a stepping-up plan for public research efforts up to 2010. It's a plan SV seam desired. However, the 2007 draft budget of the SVs and the Government has not been followed up, and it is not discussed further. Therefore, the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left Government are asking to present such a plan. It is incomprehensible to all those who are engaged in research and higher education, that the Government, as one of its first political grips, set itself the opportunity to continue the increase of SEK 39 billion that was in the Research Fund. The only government council can boast of is that he did not invite to rematch with a unanimous attitude from Stortinget. State Council Djupedal and his colleagues still believe that the proposed increase in the Research Fund was a stumbling block. It's mildly said a special claim that just confirms the point. This government stumbled into too high research appropriations, because it planned to spend the money on something else. At a time when we should have given the gas and the bet, the government will have to repair its own damage first. Politics is a priority. Councillor Øystein Djupedal said to the evening post on 22 September last year that what we are going to do will be done. During the presentation of the budget, the Prime Minister said that the budget represented a real political priority. Then I can only understand that this poor budget for research and higher education is an expression of the government's will and ability. It's symptomatic that the more words the government spends, the less money it grants. Where the government does the big cuts on the big problems, the Right wants to spend the big money on the big problems.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-11.ana.ud429e160	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-11.ana.ud429e163	The right never talks about its results in connection with the increase in the Research Fund over the four years they had the State Councils in the Ministry of Education. In the financial debate, Ine Marie Eriksen Soreide said that she was very pleased with her own government's research effort, because when it went on, she had expectations that the Research Fund would increase by NOK 5 billion. Today, Eriksen Soreide says that she – in one year’s time – wants to increase the Research Fund, and that it is quite natural to increase it by 35 billion kroner. What is the reason why the Right never talks about its results when it comes to the increase in the Research Fund, but it's always talking about what they suggested when they knew they were going off? Why did Eriksen Soreide have much greater expectations for our government than she had for her own government?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-11.ana.ud429e175	I thank you for the question. Interestingly, when the government of Bondevik II went on in 2001, it came after a government of Stoltenberg. At that time, the Research Fund was DKK 10 billion. That was the message at that time, because the government had not wanted to give priority to the Research Fund. That is why I, as the current Young Right Leader, wanted the Research Fund to reach NOK 15 billion in the first year. That was offensive to me at the time, since the Research Fund was then NOK 10 billion. But the plans did not stop there, and our ambitions did not stop there. That has shown both the last draft budget we presented, and the period that we have behind us. For example, I see myself. It is interesting to discuss appropriations for research and higher education, that even after the presentation of the budget, the representatives of the Government argued that the university and higher education sectors had received so much money from the previous government that it was sound and almost reasonable to cut the appropriations by 275 million. kr for this year. So it turns out that the period we have behind us, between 2001 and 2005, was very good for research and higher education in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-11.ana.ud429e182	The representative from the Right referred to all the research environments that require more and more. And then she says that the government delivers a Lada and not an Audi, which the Right wants. But if the Lada is environmentally friendly, and people around the country have the opportunity to get a Lada, it's probably better with such a car than no car. But that's how you present what you say. Research has increased by 900 million. kr – nominal kr – R & D has increased by SEK 2.3 billion over the last two years. Real growth in 2007 is 2.5 pst. and was in 2006 at 6.7 pst. That's actually better than what the previous government did. Is it so that the Right Wishes are like that of a little bear named Ole Brumm: Yes, thank you, both? In addition, for this year’s state budget, there is full childcare coverage, follow-up of the Knowledge promise, and free teaching material for children in secondary school.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-11.ana.ud429e191	The right considers and has always considered that it is fully possible to make a good contribution both to research and higher education and to basic education. We showed that in the period we were in government, and we also show that in our alternative budget. I agree that new Ladas can be environmentally friendly and nice, but there is something about the mismatch between the promises made, between the policies pursued in opposition from, among others. SV, and not least as regards the reality that met the research communities and higher education environments on 6 October this year. It is also interesting that the representative Tegen draws up the nominal increase of 900 million. In reality, behind these figures there is a sharp increase in the Research Fund's return, as well as a failure to take account of price and wage growth. That means that of the 900 million. NOK it is again approx. minus 159 million. in direct research appropriations entered in this budget. In addition, we know that last year, for the last year's budget, the government reduced the increase in research appropriations from SEK 1.4 to 1.3 billion after they had fallen into the budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-11.ana.ud429e200	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-11.ana.ud429e203	At the end of the 1800's, teachers, church singers and staging representative Olafsen said that the school was an assignment in dissension and envy, because it was a result of being placed from childhood on each of their benches. Therefore, the great idea of the left was that the primary school should apply to everyone. It was about linking the interests of the better to the common school that Berntsen, headmaster of public schools, wrote. In the school policy discussion over the last few years, I have met some right-wing people who believe that the release of the previous government promised was not so dramatic. That's how few students it's about, it's said. But in our Nordic neighbouring countries, we clearly see the consequences. Denmark has a marked cross-section of children with academic parents in private schools, not because public schools are poor, not because parents do not believe in the community, but the fear that their own children will not get it all, the best, is enough for many parents to take their children out of public schools. In Sweden, there has been a long majority for a liberalist private school law, which fortunately gained a short life span in Norway. The Greens in Sweden formed a majority of the citizens of this law while the Social Democrats were overthrown. This weekend I met Sweden's former finance minister. He says that the private school law increased the differences between children from different social classes in Sweden. This freedom of choice has reduced the quality of public schools, was his message. Public schools are left with students who need the most follow-up, while parents with many resources choose private alternatives. Municipalities are losing money in private schools, he says. That is why we want a new private school law, and that is why we are now paying too much in public general school. Because it's an end in itself for children to meet children from different social classes in public school. And in a society where we are becoming increasingly different, we need common meeting places. Closed enclaves for academic children in one school and for immigrant children in another school do not provide children and young people with a good ballast later in life. Community schools teach children and young people about diversity. The Progress Party has no school policy that takes care of the common meeting places in our society – with them it is free for everyone who can pay for it. But market mechanisms are not suitable for creating quality in school. If you're not satisfied with the school, you don't pull up the pod with the roots of friends and everything in the local environment, and then maybe switch to another school the next year. It's something else to switch shampoos than to change school places for the kids. In their first budgetary settlement with Bondevik's previous government, the Progress Party went in with the Right so that the schools that had bought books for loans to the students in high school would sell them. Then, two years earlier, the Workers' Party had concluded a budget agreement for 2000 with the Left, Christian People's Party and the Center Party in order to launch this good system of free schoolbooks for high school students. But in 2001, everything stopped. After years of bone-hard resistance from the Progress Party, where they were responsible for reversing the system, the party is now crawling and is for free school books. It's nice to change your mind, but the Progress Party has not made a single budgetary settlement in recent years where school books or school have been prioritised with a single penny. When the lot is chosen, they select all schools first. The SFO shall be a child passport, which does not mention the quality of the propulsion batch. This budget shows that the opposition has no alternative to the current government's priorities, except that they increase some of the items that we agree with. Typical of these priorities is that there is more play than reality. When the Right and Advance Party take money for their marking business by cutting in the administration of the Ministry of Education and Education because, as they write, the modernisation has stopped under the red-green, it says something about how little serious we can take their option. When the Right was reconciled with the Progress Party on the Budget Agreement, there was even a need for administrative means to maintain quality and progress. We also see this game in the discussion about the Research Fund. It is strange that a government that has been sitting for four years never boasts of what they got on the research front, but only boasts of one budget they provided when they knew they would go off. Then they were rusty and could turn up a lot. In the 2002 state budget, they proposed increases in the Research Fund of DKK 3 billion, for 2003 of DKK 3 billion, for 2004 of DKK 1 billion and for 2005 of DKK 3.2 billion. Now, like 35 billion dollars in increase, is a completely natural number. Seven times as high as the Research Fund's expectations when one sits as head of the Committee in relation to the time you set as head of the Young Right – it's not very credible. It's like going to the café with their friends and the one time you're not going to be involved in paying the bill, suggesting a right that's ten times as expensive as the times you're going to pay – and once again boasting about how much money you were the time you weren't going to pay. This Government is betting on research. We're betting on research in the north, we're increasing the research fund more in two years than the previous government did in four. That's 1 pst. a decrease in the budget of higher education institutions. We believe it is proper in this budget, for this time we have prioritised initial training. We have prioritised faith training and proste reform, not least we have prioritised the study federations, which the Right Party and the Advance Party have always agreed to cut, because, among other things, it has. is about basic skills and actions in many adult community settings. The difference between this and the previous government is that we believe in common meeting places. We believe in the old teacher, who said that a teacher is very important by sitting at the same bench.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-11.ana.ud429e229	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-11.ana.ud429e233	It's kind of festive to hear Huitfeldt's representative use most of his post to tell us about the Advance Party's and Right Party's policies. I think the reason for that is that there's not so much to brag about in the government's budget. I find it interesting to note that Huitfeldt's representative claimed that Swedish high school has had a negative impact on the public school there. There are a number of studies that show the opposite, but I hear that the opinions of a former Swedish finance minister will go ahead of those studies. It's going to be the government's challenge. However, in Norway, a research project was being launched to clarify precisely this — the extent to which fresh oils have an impact, and in the case of what kind of impact, on public schools. That research project stopped the department, and the rationale of Secretary of State Rugtvedt was that this government does not base its policy on research. Then I think it's time to ask why the government is so afraid of getting knowledge. Is it because it fears that you're going to throw your legs away under the foundation of their rhetoric in the field of colleges?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-11.ana.ud429e242	It is quite natural to implement a new policy, to launch research to follow up the consequences of the new policy adopted. That's why the previous government initiated follow-up research as a result of the old law on high school. We have now reversed this law of free school, we want a new private school law. Then it's natural that we look at research in this context. We don't need any research in relation to a law on high school that hasn't been passed. We have always initiated follow-up research as a result of the policy we have adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-11.ana.ud429e252	It's interesting to hear the representative Anniken Huitfeldt think there's no need for research into a law that exists. It exists and applies until the adoption of a new law. But I see that the majority board takes on the government's major representatives, so that they think they are no longer dependent on the Storting for the adoption of new laws. It is also interesting that the free school debate comes up, because we have just received two solid Norwegian research reports that show that there is no segregation effect of fresh schools in Norway, and that colleges are often better placed to adapt training and provide good learning outcomes for students. It is precisely in the public common school that the segregation and differences resulting from social background have been so massive between pupils. But I want to go back to the financial debate. Anniken Huitfeldt went a long way in promising increased funding to universities and colleges and research in the next state budget. Is the representative of Huitfeldt standing by those opinions?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-11.ana.ud429e261	I have said that during this period we are going to experience a strengthening of the higher education and university sector. I stand by that. As far as primary education is concerned, I believe that it is a value in itself for children and young people from different social classes to meet in the public general school. When we know that in Copenhagen, it's 38 pst. of the academic children go to private school, towards a much smaller proportion of other children, it is the school as a meeting place that has been reduced. I think it's an end in itself that we get to know each other in public schools. It creates social contact. If we are to maintain our welfare society as a social contract between people, we need social contact in everyday life.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-11.ana.ud429e266	I believe that the offensive research effort was seen in the last budget of the Bondevik government, also in the context of a fear that a new regime would stop, and so it did. I would also like to draw the attention of the representative Huitfeldt to the fact that the Church should take note of the mistrust that this government indirectly expresses to the Church Meeting. We can't understand it as anything else when the government parties cannot help stress the importance of the work of the Church's own organs, cannot say that they are positive about the development of the Church meeting, and cannot say that it is crucial for the Church as a religious community that these bodies can maintain and strengthen their independence in the future. Does the Workers' Party believe that the process of democratization that has taken place in the Church in recent years has been unfortunate for the development of the Norwegian Church, and does this seem to be a good starting point for achieving a broad and coherent solution for the Norwegian Church?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-11.ana.ud429e275	We are committed to strengthening the democratisation of the Norwegian Church. We believe that there has been a positive development in recent years, but it is more important that we further strengthen this process of democratisation, so that the ordinary member of the church has more influence over what is happening in the Church's organs. As far as research appropriations are concerned, they increased in government budgets by about 10 %. Three billion dollars every year under the previous government. This year we are increasing the Research Fund by 10 billion kroner and last year by 14 billion kroner. So in the government budgets there has been a marked increase in the Research Fund compared to the efforts of the previous government.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-11.ana.ud429e282	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-11.ana.ud429e285	I would first like to note that in the line-up with Huitfeldt's representative, she stated that there was no need for research because the law had to be amended. Very familiar is there nothing in the consultation proposal that has been sent out about changes in the law on high school education, which should indicate that we do not have fresh schools after the new law has been passed. This means that it would still be relevant to investigate the extent to which fresh schools have a positive or negative impact on public schools. I want to maintain that I believe the motive for one stopping this project was that one would not have the answer. For some, what we are dealing with today is only a disposal and distribution of Norwegian wealth on budget chapters. For others, it is about whether today's politicians are farsighted and give future generations the opportunity to take a good look at the challenges that we know are coming. Norway is again honoured with top position in the international living conditions survey, and most Nordics have every reason to be satisfied. While the wealth of the people in the next year is expected to exceed NOK 2300 billion, placed in foreign portfolios of varying degrees of risk, the education and research sector is once again left with some wonder after this draft budget. Universities and colleges of the country wonder what cuts and cuts to make to meet the government’s savings requirements. Few of us would say that an efficiency of 1.5 pst. the operational budget is dramatic. Some might even argue that a budget reduction from time to time makes sense in order to help improve resource use and get more money back. Nevertheless, budget reductions in higher education and universities need to be seen in a wider context. Universities and colleges are important in the development of the knowledge society, and they must be long-term and professionally independent managers of knowledge. The Government's governance document, also called the Soria Moria Declaration of Adventures, states that the Government will strengthen the allocation of universities and colleges. In the 2005 state budget, the Bondevik II government proposed a cut of 78 million. kr to universities and higher education institutions to cut the number of places of study. At that time the socialist parties reacted strongly, and in the budget-inner. S. No 12 for 2004-2005, page 62, discusses the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre's cut proposals at state universities of 30.6 million. kr in this way: ‘These members have noted that the reduction is not justified by any other reason than the need for savings in the budget, without reflecting the actual needs of the sector.These members believe that the proposed reduction represents a breach of the assumptions underlying the implementation of the quality reform in higher education, one of which is to give institutions greater predictability.’ Some time later, the comment states that the proposal: «contains a cut in the basic funding of the institutions and rockes the expectation that the financing system will be permanent over time». I note with interest the drama that is reflected in the comment from the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party. The 2005 cut represents a quarter of the cut-off universities and colleges in the area, which the same parties insist on in the 2007 state budget. The justification is primarily for the overall budget line. The criticism of the current government parties promoted in the 2005 budget affects themselves today by four times the same strength. It shows an interesting move in Norwegian politics, and it's not a move we can be proud of. The Progress Party proposed in the financial situation that funding for universities and higher education should not be cut. Students in high school have been promised free school material for several years. Today, we are discussing a proposal from the Progress Party that all high school students should receive free school material from the early harvest. The Government is opposed to this proposal and will introduce a county municipal scheme to be phased in over three years. That means 66 pst. by secondary school students, this scheme shall not be eligible for participation from the harvest. It will probably be perceived as quite unfair by the two thirds who still have to pay the school supplies themselves. The fact that the Government leaves to the county council to make the unpopular decision that a loan scheme for school books must be introduced, which means that students cannot use ordinary study techniques with underscores and comments in the textbook is not very responsible. The progress team will provide students with a book and material card scheme, where they can pick out their own equipment using their own syllabus and equipment list. Then the student will be able to choose the learning material that best suits the individual. We record that both the Student Organisation, the Educational Association, authors, publishers and a number of others agree with the Advance Party that a loan scheme will be the least sensible model for free school material. We take note that the government ignores it. Earlier this year, the National Audit Office could reveal that the provision of training at a number of primary schools was not satisfactory. In particular, the National Audit Service pointed out that students who needed additional follow-up but were not entitled to special education were particularly vulnerable. I would therefore like to point out that the Progress Party in the financial situation proposed to allocate 55.5 million. for students with specific learning challenges. Now that the promise of knowledge is under way, it is essential that the students who were previously most vulnerable to being overlooked should not be there during the reform of initial training. Therefore, it is important to focus specifically on this student group. The National Audit Office could also report that the competence of the teachers was the main factor in the need to adapt students’ training. In the past, studies such as PISA and TIMSS have shown us that we have major behavioral challenges in Norwegian school, by the fact that our classrooms have a negative impact on trouble and unrest. The Progress Party proposed 20 million. kr in addition to continuing training of teachers, with special emphasis on class management. In addition, the Progress Party believes that it is important to stimulate equal treatment between private and public providers of education. That is why we proposed to introduce a scheme of capital grants for the primary schools and increased funding for the private higher education institutions. Many times, we have experienced speakers from the country's leading pulpit – I refer to this – claim that the government's policy will solve the welfare challenges we face in Norway. The former Chairman of the Finance Committee, now State Secretary Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen, said during the financial debate, when he continued to lead the Finance Committee, that the Government is delivering on its school promises. The representative Huitfeldt announced in the same debate that the Government would increase the appropriations for higher education during the period. I wonder if we don't want to hear the same sentences at about the same time until next year. But the matter is that the government does not fulfill its election promises. In the municipalities, school budgets are currently cutting. No more teachers are added. The school books are not replaced all over the place, and there is not a single student who has tasted of the government's school food. The Progress Party proposed to earmark 600 million in the financial position. kr for initial training. Both the Progress Party and the Education Association have faith in earmarking as a means of getting the money to go to school. In this way, the increase is not re-prioritised by keen, competent local politicians with a variety of local choices and aspirations. Among other things, several studies suggest that the means of competence development for teachers are used for completely different purposes than to improve the competence of teachers. Adequate ringing, follow-up and checking are necessary if a bet is to bet in school. Only in that way will one be able to keep words when one says that school should be high on the priority list. I think it is important that we also spend some time in the debate discussing church policy issues. Despite the fact that at present there is a large and widespread public involvement in the debate on the future relationship of the Church of Norway with the State, the church discussions in this room are almost absent. This may, of course, be due to the fact that the Council of Churches is more concerned with responsibilities than those of the Church, but at times I record that there is a turnout in several directions, last towards the Council of Churches, which has concluded in the State-Church question in a way that has clearly fallen the Council of State heavily to the chest. In a budgetary procedure like this, it is hardly natural to draw up a greater speculation about the fate of the Committee on Budgets. However, it is most relevant to point out that the Government proposes several reductions in church chapters in its proposal. Nor do they intend to follow up the proste reform. In addition, the Government has proposed that the assets of the Information Society Fund may be affected. In this way, we are now at risk of the Church being drained for resources, slowly, but surely. This is happening in the middle of a debate on the future form of association. The Progress Party has proposed 52 new performances. We have gone against changes in the Law on the Information Society's fund, which is now permitted to be tapped, and we will retain the appropriations for local church democracy. A special argument for this is that the Church, in the middle of a process of change, should not be tapped. We hope that the government parties from the next budget will contribute to ensuring the financial stability of the Church in the long term. Norway is a country rich in money and oil. We're a nation of few people, but of these few, there's a lot of high education. Of those with a high level of education, many have world-class competence. The progress party thinks it's important to get more of them out. We believe the most important perspective for a monetary nation that Norway will be exploiting this situation of wealth financially to stimulate people to do their utmost, to look where no one has ever been able to do so before, and to find solutions that no head has ever seen before. There is one way to ensure such a build-up of competences and it is to ensure adequate resources and good conditions for increased research efforts. It is worth noting that all the four opposition parties, with the result of a comprehensive research Norway, a comprehensive university and higher education community as well as a number of business actors, point out that the government's research effort is a real disappointment. It is sad that the future has so little emphasis on the priorities of this government. The research policy of the Progress Party would provide 900 million in 2007. kr more than the Government's proposal and in 2008 almost NOK 2 billion more. On the occasion of last year's discussion of this budgetary position, the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left were united on three proposals. When this budget debate is gradually coming to an end, it will be clear that the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left will be united on 20 proposals. The party of progress, the Christian People's Party and the Left are united in two more. Since the major differences between the parties on the non-socialist side are still referred to by some members of the Government – and I should not underestimate that in some areas there are major differences between these parties – it is a pleasure to be able to show in this area, in the name of the good will, that one can find a number of good solutions in this field that are far better than the government parties have agreed on. Therefore, it is with great joy that on behalf of these parties, the Advance Party, the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left, I take up the 20 proposals that we agree on. I also take up the two proposals on the Progress Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left, as well as the proposals that the Progress Party has made on its own.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-11.ana.ud429e352	The proposals referred to by the representative Anundsen have thus been taken up. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-11.ana.ud429e357	The representative Anundsen vividly described the dramatic cuts proposed, but he did not mention any of the cuts proposed by the Progress Party itself. I can mention some of them. The Progress Party is proposing 23 million. kr i cut to the Sameting, which probably means a closure. 47 million. SEK in grants for Sami initial training is proposed to be cut, SEK 10 million. kr i cut to grants for training of linguistic minorities in secondary schools and cut to the development of music and cultural schools and art and film schools. I wonder if the Progress Party is on its way to the A4 community, and whether the Progress Party can describe proposed cuts as dramatic?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-11.ana.ud429e364	My point in illustrating the drama of the university and higher education sector cut proposals was that two years ago, in the 2005 budget, the current government parties thought that a cut at the bottom of a quarter of what the government is now proposing was ‘dramatic’. I also quoted from the setting, where the government parties – among others. The working party of which Opheim is part – showed how dramatic the consequences this cut could have. So two years later, the sitting government cuts almost four times as much as they did when the cut was dramatic last. What was my point in the post was that I don't understand what two years ago was so dramatic with a smaller cut in the number of student places, when one can now cut 274 million. kr without being dramatic. That's the point I tried to make in my post.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-11.ana.ud429e372	Listening to the representative of Anundsen's engaged and clear speeches is like hearing some travelling preachers from a close past, where they presented to the people that it was important to be converted now, otherwise you'll end up in a place you shouldn't mention in this room. So it's this that the Progress Party in many contexts is called the Auditor's Party. In the higher education and university sectors, they receive 99 pst. of 100 pst. Isn't it useful sometimes to think through the resources we have, and how we can get the most out of them instead of just demanding more and more?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-11.ana.ud429e379	I agree with the questioner that it is important to be converted, and as soon as possible – especially in the political context. I think we're going to contribute to that in the three years that are left until 2009. With regard to the cut proposals, I would like to refer to my previous answer. In 2005, there were 78 million. A dramatic cut, in 2007 there is nothing. That's 274 million. kr in cut, promoted by the Government, completely unproblematic. But I agree – and I also said that in the post – that sometimes it makes sense to stop and see how we use the resources. Do we use the resources in a reasonable way? The challenge here is to create an expectation, which we expect the university and higher education sectors to actually follow up, about a level of ambition. When the money fails, the drama also increases. The expectations are created by the Government, and the Government has also put on the brakes, which means that the expectations are not met. That is what we think is worrying.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-11.ana.ud429e386	Last year, the government chose to make a financial arrangement that allowed municipalities to receive NOK 9.5 billion more this year. This year, the Government will present a proposal to the municipalities for the next year, which will give them approx. 3.6 billion more. We know that it is school and care for the elderly that are the largest budget lines for municipalities and county municipalities. In the alternative draft budget of the Progress Party, many denominations have been added — one who does not believe in the local sense — among others. designation for care of the elderly, initial training and to counties of 200 million. kr for secondary education. But when you see that it's the growth in the upper secondary level that's the largest, that's where we have the biggest challenges. There will be more and more 16-year-olds, and how can the Progress Party then explain that an eartag is so small to the county municipalities and so much to the municipalities, when the need is greatest in the county municipalities, and when all hearing bodies point to the need of county municipalities to provide good basic training? Why is that where you have the least eartag, when you have more eartags elsewhere, when the need is greatest in the county, what KS also says in the hearing?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-11.ana.ud429e393	That, I think, was essentially a festive angle, because the Progress Party is earmarking 200 million. kr more than the Government of Higher Education. The government does not earmark money for this. That's the whole point. The government leaves it up to the county councils — and to the municipalities in terms of primary school level — to give priority to this money. We're not saying local politicians have anything worse to know than what we have here. What we're saying is that they're facing a number of difficult priorities locally, and experience shows from studies that have come so far this year that the money doesn't end up in the school sector. In the spring, three out of four principals at the schools said they had not received a single penny more for this budget year. They could not spend more on maintenance, they could not spend more on teachers. They had not seen any change from 2005 to 2006. That is the reality. We can sit here and say that we are so good at giving money to the municipalities, but when the municipalities do not spend the money on the most important sectors, it is our responsibility to give a steering signal. The steering signal sent by the Progress Party is that care and school are the two most important jobs for municipalities and county municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-11.ana.ud429e402	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-11.ana.ud429e405	I wonder if I should start by being a little honest. Sometimes when one sits with his nose down in the notes and blinks in the afs – an expression none of us had ever heard before we entered the gate on the Lion's Hill for the first time – wondering what in the world is a driver with. Why in all the world is this one going on? Being able to have perspective, think about some long thoughts and put small things into a slightly larger context is not exactly what the budget process at Stortinget adds up to. There is extra shame in this area, which until those degrees are based on reflection and curiosity, looking for contexts and not least new discoveries and new inventions. This plural has used the chance we got after the choice to connect the knowledge area more closely. It is so obvious that the whole sector, from kindergarten to research, hangs on from the wonder to the very least young to the wonder of the most educated researcher. This is the sector that is driving society in the future, and this sector is going to be seen below. There's no doubt that the Soria Moria statement has high ambitions in the knowledge field, and we work every day to meet these ambitions. When I first got to know the content of the knowledge budget, I thought "yes," I'm slipping until we're going to make up for this big period in four years' time. The big stakes in kindergartens, school books, and the Knowledge Lift are some big stakes, which show that we are in sight. Even though the Stortinget sort is under another committee, I can't help noticing that this plurality makes an historic highlight for the kindergartens. To bet on kindergartens is to bet on knowledge. We're going to get full coverage. We're going to be able to fulfill one of the oldest and unfulfilled political promises. There are quite a number of SU-arars, myself included, who have seats in quite a number of school debates and argued for free teaching material in secondary school. And think: now the big crowd realizes it. We have argued for equal rights to education and the free principle, and sometimes we have been met with a shoulder move and yes, yes, SV has money for everything. Yeah, think, we had money for free learning. It was not an empty promise. We're about to realize it. We are implementing a reform that will be difficult to reverse if anyone gets access to it. This government is spending SEK 1.4 billion on quality in school through the Knowledge Lift – an exciting reform that we are following closely. I am particularly pleased that the Council of State has taken seriously the signals made in relation to the means of competence of teachers, and followed this up in cooperation with the parties responsible for implementing the reform. We follow this closely from the SV page. The money's where they're supposed to be. The student organization has shown how pleased they are with the multiplicity of their educational reform. The reports on the enthusiasm of the Education Association’s national meeting indicate that the Council of State is also in good dialogue with the teachers. On behalf of SV, I want to show that this is important to us, and we want to continue the work of creating a school where every young person is seen, each teacher has the skills and resources to be a good educator – a school that is the most important arena in society to make people, create people, make people meet – an arena where people can be allowed to become the people of benefit. In another committee, they deal with the part of the budget that really matters most to the school — the municipal economy. It's probably strictly taken two committees that have treated this, with the lat no that be. This year, municipalities have increased their free income by DKK 9.5 billion. Next year, we'll increase them by an additional $3.65 billion. It's a lot of money. There is a shift of economic resources that clearly says that there is a shift of pace in Norwegian policy. We are fully aware that not everything is happy and fun around Norwegian municipalities for that reason. It takes more than two budgets to correct many years of underfinancing of such a large sector. Nevertheless, we note that the municipal effort produces results, that care and care, kindergartens and school have more resources. We are very pleased about that. It's not hard to imagine what would have been the situation if the local government didn't have these money. One cannot avoid noticing that not everyone in the university and higher education sectors is equally pleased with this budget. Let me immediately say that SV understands that. Everyone understands that it wasn't exactly the Council of State's primary wish. However, when the university and higher education sectors are not fully compensated for wage and price increases, it is for the sake of the integrity of the budget. A real cut of 1 pst. represents a moderate decrease in a sector that over the years has actually had a large increase in the number of loopholes. I'm recording that the institutions are solving this minor growth by borrowing from their own funds. In other words, there is no crisis in the sector. I thought a little big words were used in the debate here. We're aware that with a decline over the year, it's going to be completely different. Let's say we're going to bet on higher education. It's people and brain power that are going to develop this society further. We shall pursue that objective, even if the expectations of this financial year have not been fully met. This plural is investing in research. In the last two budgets, we have increased the capital of the Research Fund by 24 billion dollars. And if we look a little bit back now: if we ignore 2002, when the opposition on the Stortinget saw a change in the key that led to the Research Fund adding a new 17 billion kroner, then the previous government could sign with 9 billion dollars in the contribution to the Research Fund – in three budgets. In this perspective, I think the words used in connection with this budget are, at best, rhetorical. NIFU STEP concludes that there is a moderate increase in the research appropriations in this budget. We have increased the research rights by 900 million in nominal terms. kr, through large investments such as space exploration and not least the International Polar Year, which is particularly important from a north-eastern perspective. Yeah, we're worried that research in business is going down. On my own behalf, I would like to say that I am pleased that the Council of State has taken an initiative to engage in dialogue with the sector and industry players in order to find tools to speed up nutrition research. It is a strength for democracy – and that may be a big word, but it is honestly meant – that a draft budget from a multi-annual government is actually being discussed in Parliament. In our area, it has become clear that, after the discussion in the Financial Committee, we have received a new 36.5 million. SEK more for public schools, private schools for teachers, church buildings outside the Norwegian Church and for the project «Shall not be». After the treatment in our committee, we have managed to find half a million dollars left for the Nord-Norwegian Peace Centre, the Archives and the Falstad Centre. In addition, we are in favour of the realisation of the project that Tromsdalen continues to have in collaboration with Cambridge Regional College, and a project called Nes Kommune has in cooperation with the Hedmark University and the University of Alberta in Canada, all of which represent small adjustments within a large framework, but are means that are locally good and that we know will make use of. When I was a student, we mobilized every year for indexation. It was a little special to be 19 years old and go and raise your hands – I don't think it was the right hand or the left hand – for index regulation. It may seem quite remote to most people. This is the plurality of indexation for the second consecutive year. This only means that support should be increased as prices rise. That's a very sober demand from the students. Here is the message from the majority: we listen to the students – yes, we do. That's also why we're proposing to move 5 million. kr from the grant authority to student housing for the student children's institutions. No, it's not easy to cut $5 million. kr for student housing. But let's say that this government has built more student housing – at least it has contributed to building more student housing than it has done before. In the last two years, overall, 1,066 dwellings were built. The two years before we took over, 844 dwellings were built. Yeah, we've been listening to the organizations. We've listened to the students' argument that student kindergartens are not quite like other kindergartens. Special arrangements mainly in relation to opening hours, which take into account some particular student needs, mean that we have some of the student children's gardens need a little extra outside of kindergarten or otherwise. And glad tidings around indicate that this is a right priority. A good draft budget has been even better through the Stortinge. I would like to recommend the setting from the multiples in the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-11.ana.ud429e442	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-11.ana.ud429e445	The representative Elvik stressed being honest, and I also hope for an honest answer. The Socialist Left is happy to present itself as the party that wants to invest in education, and through it they have acquired quite a number of sympathizers in the education system. The Soria Moria Declaration states that the red-green parties will strengthen higher education. How can SV defend a cut of 274 million? kr for higher education and that it is granted under 10 pst. of the documented need for equipment at universities and colleges, so that students must use old, worn-out and immature equipment? Does SV really believe that this is investing in higher education?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-11.ana.ud429e454	I'll be as honest as I was in my post. SV is very happy with the wholeness of this budget, but of course we're not over 1 pst. This sector is actually cut, and we are not debatable either. Nevertheless, we note and record that different institutions say that these cuts can be taken out of their own reserves. There is no crisis in the sector, as the opposition tries to give the impression that it is. We note that, and we take note of that. But Soria Moria's ambitions are at stake. For SV, this is very important. To bet on people, to bet on knowledge and to bet on brain power is one of our absolute highest priorities. So we're going to keep working on this. All of our ambitions are at stake, but the wholeness of this budget we're very pleased with.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-11.ana.ud429e461	First, I have to clear up a manifest misunderstanding. The representative Elvik said that the previous government increased the Research Fund by 9 billion kroner. When that government went on, the Research Fund was 10 billion kroner. When it went off, the Research Fund, including the proposal that the current government inherited from us, was 50 billion kroner. That's $40 billion, not $9 billion. I just want to quote a little bit from the Soria Moria statement. It says: «The government will strengthen universities and universities The government will increase research efforts to 3 per cent of GDP by 2010 Increased research efforts require more researchers. [[...]] [[...]] In order to ensure recruitment, it is necessary to increase the number of scholarships compared to the current level.» How does it harmonize with the fact that this government has cut in its two budgets in SkattenFUNN, cut in the Research Fund, cut in unpaid research effort, cut in gift-enhancing, cut in pure research appropriations, cut in universities and colleges and said no to new research school at Simula? How does it harmonize with the election campaign, with the Soria Moria declaration and with the promises made by this government?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-11.ana.ud429e474	Ine Marie – no, sorry, Åsa Elvik will get an answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-11.ana.ud429e477	Thank you, President. It may be that the representative Eriksen Soreide himself would have responded to that reply, but I will reply by saying that, in relation to the Research Fund, it is a reality that it was when the opposition changed the key, that the great addition to the Research Fund came. I will answer as I said in my post: We have great ambitions in this field. The ambitions we're standing by. This is one of the highest priority areas for SV. We are very pleased with the healing in this budget. When we see that the different institutions are able to cut it to 1 pst. As the sector actually comes up next year, within own resources, we note that there is no crisis in the sector. We have done this with regard to the soundness of the budget. And we disagree with Right. We wouldn't have taken the money either from agriculture or from the aid to take this in. But the ambitions are on the line, and we're going to keep working on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-11.ana.ud429e484	The representative should have compliments to follow the line that I have called the line of honesty, in terms of investing in research, namely that there is no particular effort being made. Because that's the point. Olof Palme once taught me that politics is too wild. And SV – first with NOK 12 billion in government, then NOK 4 billion in almost Christmas gift to cover the sick pay bill – has neither the ability nor the will to let it come to research. And the legacy that's there is, of course, an inheritance from the Bondevik II government, at $14 billion. I have respect for choosing the whole budget, and that whole is the following: you don't choose higher education, you don't choose research, you choose it, you choose it off in relation to the Soria Moria statement, and you choose it off in relation to your own strong, committed profile in connection with the Research Communication in the Stortinget. That's an honest answer, because politics is choosing and wanting. And I think it was liberating that the representative of the first admits that this has not been chosen. Then she has the same hope as Councillor Djupedal before Christmas last year, that there would be new things when the budget came for this year. When the budget came this year, the line was unbroken – first cut at NOK 25 billion at the beginning of this year, then cut at $100 million. kr in the revised national budget, and then the deplorable result that we have in the budget here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-11.ana.ud429e491	The essential must be what a sitting government has, and not what a outgoing government proposes. The plural has a plus of the research fund of 24 billion dollars. Next year, we're increasing nominal research grants by 900 million. kr. I would like to ask the representative not to mix the rights to research with the rights of the university and higher education sectors. An image must not be created when this government cuts into its research permissions, it does not match. This government increases the amount of money spent on the Research Fund and increases the amount of money spent on research. But then I'm honest to say 1 pst. Cut to universities and colleges, aside from research, we're obviously not very happy with SV. But we see that the sector is capable of taking. Takes it from your own resources. Then I say OK, but we understand that it doesn't go over the year. Our ambitions are at hand. This is one of our highest priority areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-11.ana.ud429e498	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-11.ana.ud429e501	The future will reward the countries that are betting on people, who are betting on knowledge, and who are betting on new ideas. This was said by Prime Minister Stoltenberg.This was said by the representative Erna Solberg, not by Prime Minister Stoltenberg. in the debate on the throne on 5 October. The next day the party speech was forgotten, and reality had abruptly caught up with all of us who are concerned with knowledge. A cut of 273 million. kr to the higher education and university sector, tightening up the tax FUNN system and a very weak commitment to research were the phase we are now retiring. In a rising budget of additions and bets in very many areas, there is a particular need to note the cuts made. They can hardly be seen as anything other than an expression of clear and conscious down-priorities on the part of the Government. There is no doubt that the budget that will be adopted today is a poor budget for higher education and research. So it gets a little weird when the government's parties try to minimize it all. It's not just us in the opposition who's worried. No, it is a global university, university and research sector that has reacted strongly to the very weak research profile in this budget. Then it does not seem to indicate a moderate increase in funding for research, and that the Soria Moria Declaration is offensive in this area. Soria Moria is just a dream castle. This is not the time for a rest slice. With the rise times we are in, we need to use the opportunity to invest in both school, higher education and research. As for the future's lack of reward for the lack of investment in knowledge and new ideas, I think the future will say that the government's reason for this cut was the government's large allocations to the sector. It was because of the liberal and good economy you cut. The goal of the Christian People's Party is for Norway to be a leading knowledge nation. We have the assumptions, but it takes a lot more than a rest cut to get it done. In our alternative budget, we have chosen to follow the line of the Bondevik government and give priority to these areas, both by correcting the government's cut in higher education and by giving more money to research and scholarship positions. A proper and good family policy depends on a strong and good school. When working together at home and at school, it provides the best conditions for the student's learning environment. I think there's a need to be more involved in strengthening cooperation between home and school. We know that there are big differences between schools as to how well this actually works. That is why the Christian People's Party has proposed in its budget to launch a pilot project in each state where a position to strengthen cooperation is created at a selected school. Such contact could be a driving force for closer links and even better cooperation between home and school. People are waiting for a life course. Many people say that learning how to live together in a good way gives good tools in everyday life. Relation construction and conflict resolution are important in a family life. We should be able to transfer this enormous experience and competence to benefit from school. We want to expand the food and health profession so that it can also include living together. This can be a tool the child can take along to create good relationships and living together. It is important that children and young people learn about relationships and conflict resolution. That is why the Christian People's Party has proposed in its alternative budget to grant funds to the Society Centre at Modum Bad so that they can develop a teaching system for this. One of the things that has worried me most since I joined the Education Committee in the fall is the drop-out rate in secondary education. When one in three does not complete secondary vocational training, this is far more than dry figures. We must never forget that these numbers represent individuals and not least individuals. It is important to take urgent action to help more people complete higher education. An action could be to ensure an even more qualitatively good advisory service. Unfortunately, this varies from school to school. We have therefore proposed the introduction of further training in order to become a consultant. In this way, we can provide the best possible advisory service and help lower the drop-off rate. When the Christian People's Party presented its alternative budget, we took seriously that the Government wanted constructive input from the opposition. That's why we invited the government parties up to dance. And a few, but important steps have also been taken. We specifically challenged the majority on a voluntary package. We were sincerely surprised at some of the proposals in the budget that had a clearly negative volunteer profile. For example, in peak hours: Cutters at folk colleges, were surprising from a red-green government. Universities are an important part of our education system. Schools are involved in expanding the horizon, creating curiosity in new areas, and they teach students a lot about human relations. National colleges, private colleges of teachers, Skal-Skal-Skal and private church buildings are among the things that are promised after the talks between the Christian People's Party and the government parties. We are pleased about this – not on our own behalf, but on behalf of all those who can thus get a better offer, whether it is in the form of good teacher training, that national colleges do not cease to operate or that religious communities outside the Norwegian Church are given an even better opportunity to build their parish houses. When I called one of the leaders of the newly built town hall at Byremo, there came a cautious yippi, which only a southerner can say it: quiet, but intense. But that wasn't all the areas we got fixed. It wasn't in all areas the government would dance. For the private colleges, the budget falls in particular to the Mediehögskole Gimlekollen in Kristiansand. Here, about 25 pst. by the students of journalism. The cut they got in 2006 removed the increase that came as a result of the actual number of students the institution had. This is so serious that future operations are now under threat. Other private colleges are also facing a difficult situation. The schools transferred from the College Chapter to the College Chapter in 2005 are coming out worse. In fact, next year these schools will get less State aid than if the schools had continued as Bible schools. That could not have been the purpose. Schools should not be penalised for choosing a larger and heavier professional profile in their places of study. We are asking for a new review of this area. The Christian People's Party is very pleased that the Government is continuing to invest in religious training with the significant escalation that is also taking place in this budget. Faith training is an important prerequisite for maintaining the broad and committed Church of the People, and is strongly prioritised by the Church. At the same time, we are very concerned about the signals that are now coming from the Government on the Information Society Fund. As a result of various changes, the Government is in the process of weakening the fund’s carrying capacity in relation to the tasks assigned to it. The Christian People's Party believes that the real return of the Information Society's fund is to be managed by the Fund itself, and we will warn against using the Church's own funds to correct the lack of public priority of church buildings. Such use of funds will reduce the fund's capital and thus also affect the work of children and young people. We will therefore ask the Government to now speed up and think slowly. This debate is based in a broader context than in a budget proposal. I would recommend to the Government not to make any changes now until we have a general discussion of the principle of the fund in the context of the forthcoming treatment of the relationship between state and church. I am extremely disappointed that until now we have not got a solution and agree to take responsibility for the Norwegian children at the school in Mopti, Mali. Does the majority in this Chamber believe that the children should be sent across the continent to Ethiopia, or does the majority believe that these children should be sent home to Norway? Or can no one with children go out in aid or in a mishap? These questions are now unanswered from the red-green ones. I promise that the Christian People's Party will not surrender until this is all right. When the Christian People's Party is involved in solving matters that are important to them – and we have done so in this budget – it is not part of a future power game, but to fulfill the mandate we have received from our voters. We want to join and create a society that is a little bit better to live in for some more. With that, I take up proposal No. 38, from the Christian People's Party and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-11.ana.ud429e547	The representative of Dagrun Eriksen has taken up the proposal she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-11.ana.ud429e552	There is a lot of rhetoric in research and colleges, but I think we all agree that quality costs. I simply wonder whether this is the same with regard to primary school, secondary school and the transfers to the municipalities. After four lean years there has been a significant escalation during the red-green government. I find it exciting to see how the Christian People's Party acts when they stand on their own, and have read with interest part of the proposals in the Christian People's Party's alternative budget. What I'm really asking is whether the Christian People's Party wants to continue the tax latency dance with the right parties, or whether they want to join us in the welfare dance.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-11.ana.ud429e559	As I said at the end of my post, when we go into discussions about individual matters in this budget, it's not like part of a power game. I think people out there are pretty tired of thinking about what you're doing. Once we have entered for, for example. To strengthen the private church building pot, drug institutions and everything we've done in collaboration with the government parties is because we really are burning for and seeing that these are things we have to solve. It is also a little strange to hear both the representative Freddy de Ruiter and other representatives of the government parties talk about primary schools, municipal budgets and other areas where you have managed to give money. This budget was a rising budget, and a lot of money and energy had been put into getting a good and stable economy. That's why these cuts get so incredibly strong and so incredibly weird.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-11.ana.ud429e566	I would like to thank the representative Eriksen both for being constructive in the treatment of the budget, and, not least, for being generous enough to give the plural honor where she thinks that the plural will have honor. I thought there was respect for that. Nevertheless, the committee leader said in his post that there was a collective opposition, and also the Progress Party stressed how the so-called non-socialist parties are in both the position and in the debate. I could think of the right-wing representative from the Christian People's Party's view of the right-wing budget. I have understood that the opposition is some of the people who want to bet on research and even more on the university and higher education sectors. On the right, it solves by taking DKK 1.5 billion from aid, by taking DKK 1.5 billion from agriculture, and by taking SEK 150 million. a little bit from regional development and innovation. Is it an invasion in which the representative of the Christian People's Party agrees, or is it just the additions of the opposition being reassembled?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-11.ana.ud429e576	I don't think there's any doubt in this room about what we mean about the Right Cut, among other things. in assistance. We wanted to be fair in this budgetary process, that is to say we want to support the proposals we agree with, and we want to go against the proposals we disagree with. There I think we've been constructive, perhaps unlike what today's government parties were when we were in government. We've given credit for what's good, when it's based on it, and we've given rice when it's based on it. One will see that it's part of these budget surveys that we disagree with, and it's very clear that the Christian People's Party is a center party. We find good solutions in the centre of Norwegian policy. Help doesn't belong to cutbacks. There belong to living, vigorous people at home, and it is going to be recognized by the Christian People's Party in the budgets that are coming.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-11.ana.ud429e585	Several have not asked for the word for a line. I understood it so that the representative, Anundsen, has asked for the floor to take up proposals relating to case No. 2 and 3, which he did not have included in his article.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-11.ana.ud429e590	Thank you for that. I guess I was so happy that we were gathered on so many proposals in the budget that I forgot to take up the proposals that the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left are grouped over in case no. 3 and the Procedural Party's proposal in case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-11.ana.ud429e595	Then the President is pleased that the proposals have been taken up!
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-11.ana.ud429e598	I'm going to spend most of my time in the budget setting and say a little bit about some areas that have been important to the Central Party. But initially, as rapporteur, I would like to present the setting to Document No. 8:6 for 2006-2007, proposals by the representatives of Storing Dagrun Eriksen and Bjørg Tørresdal to re-evaluate the approval of the Norwegian school in Mopti, Mali, and to provide for exemptions under the Law on the Law on Secondary Education. As can be seen from the setting, the Norwegian Missionary Company's school in Mali has applied for approval under the applicable law. The application has been rejected by the Directorate of Education and has also been rejected by the Ministry of Knowledge after review. The case has been assessed in such a way that the law did not provide the basis for the application. The government has announced in its budget proposal that a new private school law will be promoted for Stortinget to spring. The bill is now being consulted, and it will again be open to the examination of applications for approval when the Stortinget adopts new private school law. The Committee's recommendation is therefore that the proposal be annexed to the minutes. The government has provided a budget that looks at the educational cycle in the context. The budget therefore sets out to achieve the objective of full childcare provision during 2007. Kindergartens shall be a voluntary part of the education cycle, where young people develop skills and social skills in a safe environment, and are the first step on the way to lifelong learning. The government is also following up on the Knowledge Promise, in line with the Great Britain's decision in relation to the treatment of the Great Britain's Communication "Culture for Learning". The promise of knowledge is a comprehensive reform, with new curricula and a turn from the state saying how things should be learned, to being more concerned with what students should actually learn. And in many of the municipalities that are adopting their budget for the next year, we see the effects of the red-green government's investment on the local economy. I'm going to start from my own region and say a little bit about what the situation has been like in the last four years. In the Nord-Gudbrandsdalen there was a problem between 2001 and 2006 that was left when the budgets were to be adopted: where are we going to cut to minimise it? A rather strange question given that it is the municipalities that offer the most basic welfare services, but with the failure of the Bondevik II government and the lack of willingness to invest in the local economy, this was sadly the reality. It is therefore good to see that the situation is quite different after a year of red-green rule. Substantial strengthening of the municipality's financial framework now allows public schools to invest. In the North Gudbrand valley, schools are being cleaned up and built for tens of millions of dollars a year and next year. The content of the school is also strengthened, for example. in my hometown, Dovre. In the spring we decided to increase the frame to primary school by 1 million. NOK, and it is a great promise for a municipality with less than 3000 inhabitants. In addition, considerable efforts are being made to develop skills. Teachers are motivated to acquire new and relevant knowledge in line with the reform, in particular in the field of real science and language. I experience that the promise of knowledge has made people elected, parents, teachers and not least students themselves aware of the role of primary school as a provider of basic skills in society. The follow-up to the promise of knowledge and the targeted commitment to the local economy tells me that there is a connection between what is adopted in this room and what the municipalities are doing in the individual school. It tells me that this government is taking action to develop the knowledge society. In the case of high school, it is historic when this government has now prioritised providing students with free learning material on all educational programmes, and the Government is now fulfilling the government parties for which they have worked for several years. From the fall, there will be free learning material for all students on VG 2, with an indication of a further phase-in beyond the ageing period. I am pleased that after many years of promising, we can now sign out an important youth policy issue. The youth organisations of the Government Party have been aware that this may have been the most important issue for this group of students, and as a central youth, I am pleased that the Government has prioritised free learning material in the 2007 budget. The government is also taking another important step in terms of education funding, by now indexing student support, so that economically weak groups such as students and students do not further lag behind the population. Many students need a break after high school, either because they are a bit of school leave or because they want to do something completely different before they have to choose education. Folk universities are an important part of the school system here. They offer a year where students are given the opportunity to try new things and become better acquainted with themselves and their abilities. The centre party is very pleased that the stakes in higher education institutions are being maintained, and notices that the number of year-olds is increasing. I started my article by saying that this government sees education and learning in the context. For me, this also means that you view learning as something more than the ordinary course of education. For a knowledge nation like Norway, where the knowledge of the population is our foremost priority, it is essential to give all opportunities for learning and professional development throughout their lives. The OECD has appointed Norway as world champion of lifelong learning. It's a pleasure, but it also makes demands on us as a country if we want to have this position in 15 years. This is long-term work, where targeted and systematic work needs to be done. There's over 140 million in the budget. to participate in the EU Lifelong Learning Action Programme, LLP. The focus here is on quality in education. LLP connectivity will stimulate professional development and internationalisation. Through the Comenius, Erasmus and Leonardo da Vinci exchange programmes, Norwegian students and students are given the opportunity to take part in education abroad, with increased competence in language and culture as a result. Both parts are important when Norwegian labour force is to be qualified for an increasingly internationally oriented working life. The Central Party therefore welcomes the Government's proposal to participate in the LLP, and looks forward to the debate on this when the proposal is presented to the Stortinget. Being the best at lifelong learning means that one succeeds in building knowledge, both inside and outside the classroom. As big-time politicians, we have all been involved in a study or two. Collecting over a coffee cup and a study booklet was about 15 pst. of Norway’s population in 2005, despite the dramatic reduction in adult education of the Bondevik II government. Much of this adult training takes place through study associations, which are associations of recognised membership organisations offering courses of different lengths aimed at adults. The government increased the grant to the study associations by 27 million. kr in the context of the revised national budget for 2006 and continues to escalate to a total increase of 58 million. kr compared to the 2006 budget. The study groups provide a low-threshold service that helps to make learning harmless, including: by providing alternative services to adults who have been out of work for longer periods. The advantage of the study federations is that they have a flexible and unbureaucratic structure. They take rapid account of changes in the need for skills and knowledge and set up courses in such a way that learning outcomes are relevant at all times to the needs of society. Courses through study associations also have a self-esteem in addition to providing increased knowledge. The courses are a unique opportunity for participants to network with other people in the same situation. This can motivate increased efforts and development for individuals and give self-confidence and a sense of mastery. The government has reversed the decline in support for adult training and student associations just to ensure Norway is the world champion in this area in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-11.ana.ud429e638	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-11.ana.ud429e641	The centre party would like to be seen as the party of the districts. We've seen that the Center Party wouldn't look at the necessary tools to preserve cross-country schools when we discussed the problems of school kissing. We see here in the budget that the Central Party is not involved in strengthening the Landslag for Udel and Fådelt School, and we see that the Centre Party, through the government's management of the law on free school, prevents parents and local communities from taking over operational responsibilities for school closures. How can the Central Party argue that they take seriously the primary school problem when they are involved in such priorities and policies?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-11.ana.ud429e646	As a central party, I would say that the most important thing for the branch schools is to invest in the local economy. But I record that the Progress Party, with its budget arrangements, makes such strengthening of the schools more difficult. In my post, I pointed out the effort that many schools in the North Gudbrandsdal, which is really district, can now carry out thanks to the red-green government's commitment to the local economy, and it tells me that it is through the local economy that the branch schools can best be preserved.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-11.ana.ud429e653	In a debate where SV are the first to point out long-term, realism and honesty, you might expect a lot. But fresh oils are about to be strangled by the Center Party in government. Derogations shall be granted to the districts. In such a perspective, it is strange that there is no support for the establishment of school in Mopti, Mali, where alternatives are likely to be further away than some districts in Norway, at least. The right proposes to restore the capital grant to fresh oils. It's pretty important to make the establishment of high school a real choice for those who want it, without getting too much parental pay. Why can't the Centre Party be involved in restoring such a grant?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-11.ana.ud429e660	The central party supports this government's commitment to the single school and to the local economy. In the case of Mopti in Mali, we have, as I referred to in my statement, a vote on the decision that the proposal is annexed to the Minutes. The central party is involved in the approach of the government, that this matter should be dealt with in the context of new law.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-11.ana.ud429e665	Finally, the Christian People's Party is going to remind the Center Party of that. We are pleased that in talks with the government parties we have corrected the government's dramatic cut in the national colleges. I've realized, through the media at least, that the Center Party is also. But nevertheless, there has been some uncertainty out there as to whether the cut at the folk colleges was conscious at the Center Party, if you were aware of this. I refer to some quotations; one from Åslaug Haga: "Some of us didn't know about this." Inger S. Enger stated on his side: "We were completely surprised by the cut." It is clear that the Center Party is struggling with the volunteer profile in the cooperation of this government. My question to the representative is: what is the reason why the Central Party had to have the help of the Christian People's Party to correct these cuts and strengthen the voluntary nature of this budget? Is the Central Party a little happy that the Christian People's Party can help them and draw them into a central profile, in relation to the socialist influence they are under in this cooperation?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-11.ana.ud429e683	As I was in my post, the higher education institutions represent a very important part of the education system. There's a Christian People's Party and the Center Party very much in agreement. The government parties, in advance of the presentation of the budget, have made it clear that, although we have a majority, we must of course listen to all the good input that is coming – and we did so when it came to national colleges. Already in the financial situation, we put in the $20 million again. kr, which was proposed to be cut, and it tells us that we have been responsive to the good signals that have come in the case of higher education institutions. And there should be no doubt about the central party's commitment to the matter. But I'm glad that the Christian People's Party has also been so hard on this matter, and helped to get a better result than what was proposed.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-11.ana.ud429e690	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-11.ana.ud429e693	Politics is to want, and I would like to add a quote from a respected and well-known social democrat, Olof Palme, that politics is also to ‘will’ – and I stress even stronger: choosing to want. This government, for example, has, to say something very commendable, wanted to secure an aid profile, and then it has wanted a budget in that area. But when we come to higher education and research, it is obvious that there is a lack of both ability and will. And we can contrast it to Soria Moria, as others have done, we can contrast it to individual parts of the Government, we can contrast it to the Left's budget proposal. We will invest more in the field of knowledge and research – SEK 1.5 billion more because we believe that it is wanting something for the future, it is choosing something for the future that makes us have a chance to promise what is important, both insight and knowledge, which makes us defend our democracy in a complicated world, and which makes us secure the unborn business. We ensure two value chains: the value chain that goes into generalisation and that makes us all involved, that we participate as citizens, and the second value chain: the one that creates industry, business, and that makes it, for example. in this city sucks and boils of people who think it is great honor and honor to be workers. In all of these areas, when the government gets the chance, first by DKK 12 billion in the original budget, then by DKK 4 billion – which must be the dream gift of a government council just before Christmas – of additional tax receipts and reduced health money costs, yes, first a particularly poorly treated health pay cut is included in business. Still there are 1.2 billion left. And none of this comes to reduce the cut in higher education, and nothing comes from research. Of course, when this is to be measured against something, it has to be measured against the expectations created by the government parties. The Government Parties then select three lines in the manner of meeting this: One line, for which I have a lot of sense -- I call it the Sandal Elvik line -- goes out on the straight and open to admit it and say we're going to fight another day. That's honest. And then we have the line that State Council Djupedal has chosen for now, that's to talk about something else. And then we have the line that the Minister of Finance has chosen, and it's essentially denying it and introducing the kindergarten bet as an alternative to research. Being for kindergartens, that's good, but that's not an alternative to research. I prefer the Sandal-Elvik line, which is admitting something, which is simply saying that you got a lot of Christmas in the inner path, but you don't give up, you fold up your sleeves. It's a line that you can respect, and that you can relate to. But then you'll actually be left with a field where you might be cold and cynical wondering that people don't necessarily walk in the same demonstration trains as when petrol prices rise, but where it's almost only mildly expressed something, as many have said from the pulpit earlier today – from a collective research Norway, from business, from student organisations. But then it doesn't count. And it doesn't even count when you get four billion extras. I have earlier from this pulpit said that the ability I thought was no longer there after the four billion came extra and there was nothing coming, and the will claims I was shut down inside a hut on Soria Moria, and someone has thrown the key and forgot it. It's positive, I have to say, that the government in such a landscape, where you want so little for higher education and research, then actually will keep the promise of something there has been a broad consensus about, namely the promise of knowledge. What is not understandable to me is that, despite the fact that, in a previous debate in this Chamber, there was a broad consensus about investing in the competence of our teachers to live up to this general public school – the common school – that Huitfeldt’s representative spoke about, that is, not being able to get a majority in this room for something as simple as systematically reviewing what is happening to the post-school part of the Knowledge promise. My impression after traveling around this country, both here and there, is that what happens to it, is very random. And that's a shame, because if there's something the teachers, the students, the parents and the school deserve, then it's that resources for continuing education are actually being used to strengthen people professionally and educationally. I'm going to give you a little bit of insight into this from a common school that I visit evenly, that's the school in Oslo. It's Norway's largest school system, it's a school system where you can see how enthusiasm has increased dramatically from the year 2000, when I made the previous education trip, to the last year, where you can actually see how teachers both graduate and school, where you can see that it is built closely and systematically on cooperation with parents and homes. What is not possible for the Left to achieve in this Chamber, namely to adopt a probationary system with a year of competence for teachers, it manages the Left, along with the Christian People's Party, at least to be adopted in a debate with the City Council in Oslo. In Oslo, not just theoretically, you have to explore the year of competence as a tool for teachers in Oslo School. So it means a willingness to bet on something that's important, and it illustrates that politics is wanting something. And – to say it dry, so that no one should say anything – in municipal budgets you don't operate with oil money, where you only operate with the money you depend on the county judge if you don't fit, so this is really wanting to give priority, and to bet. As far as this budget is concerned, the Left has helped to understand that it is common for more than half of the youth schools now to take up higher education. Then it is reasonable that the students' children have a proper nursery place. And then it becomes a cross of thought that in the city where you have cut the string first for full child care coverage, Trondheim, hometown of both state councils, they sit and follow the debate now – the municipality, to at least now, has counted student loans as wages in relation to the student children's place in kindergartens. It's positive that the government parties are struggling to move 5 million kroner, even if they take it from student homes, it's good for child care coverage, but it's a me street check that in a budget where it's 3.2 billion kroner for kindergarten bets, you can't put off 15 million dollars. kr in order to ensure the student children’s gardens they are to have. It's going to be a cross of thought over most of it. It should be a removable size when you have the large volume of money to travel with. A number of other issues have also emerged from the debate. I choose to take up a theme where I expect it to be a mistake, and it is that, without having read it in any document that has reached me from the Government, I see in the press that two large private schools, St. Sunniva and Christian High School, are struggling because of possible changes in award criteria. I suppose it's not intentional, I'm so free on this pulpit, based on the government parties' declared desire to secure good private schools for the purpose they accept – and the Christian schools have been of them, that is, both St. Sunniva and Christian High School – to count on what has arisen here to find its solution in a proper way. It deserves, I think, everyone who has chosen to trust the government line at these points, and it deserves those who go there. So I'm not going to do more of that than express myself that way. This has to be solvable when you sit down and go through the numbers. It can't be meant to be doing anything deliberately negative to these schools, I can't imagine it. But I think it's important to say as much as I hope it gets worked on it, and that it gets cleaned up in it. In the struggle for research, we've had some fascinating exercises here. We have had the exercise by Huitfeldt and others, who say that when the Bondevik II government was not as good as the Huitfeldt representative thought you should be, it is a good defense for the tripartite government we now have. But the worst defense of all is well to fall to the past. I thought that socialists and social democrats were excited people who wanted something for the future, I thought they had read the same books of Palme as I, I thought they had read that reform policy is to have joy for the future and have future optimism, and not almost had to go back into exegesis in the past. But I'd like to take part in it, because as a foundation heir to Bondevik II, there was once again a $50 billion research fund – after the government parties had removed $25 billion, there was another $50 billion. The 14 billion that came to the top at that time give an awfully large share of the increase in the research budget we've had this year. So it's good to have solid inheritance, but it's much more important to properly manage the inheritance. And it becomes even more strange that when private people actually give gifts to research – which they can't control, they can only control that it's going to be researched – the government has to take money from other parts of the long-term research, as it did in the revised national budget for this year, and move it in to keep the promises that have been made. It's almost strange with a government that didn't think private people would give anything, but when they give, you have to take money from elsewhere to cover it up. There's one contract that I thought at least the United Government Parties and the Left, that's the belief that forces in civil society can lift something together, and that's something that's valid in the agreements on hard work and fissure, is that a word is a word, and a krone is a krone. Here the agreement was very straightforward, you brought something over 5 million. NOK, you got 25 pst. at the request of the State. It's a very simple promise, one should almost be excited when there are rich people who think it's good to do like Trond Mohn in Bergen, to give a quarter of a billion dollars instead of buying a luxury or whatever it might be. You should keep the promise. So it's almost incomprehensible that you can't do it. It is on these points that the criticism has come. Then we all find that it is a quieter time, where the protests come by e-mail rather than by marching on Karl Johan. But it can be effective enough, because the Internet is a powerful weapon when people are mobilized into elections. Most of us who have been exposed to it know that on both the plus and the minus sides. I have a deep wonder, and I hope, of course, that the Government will land with a different board of directors at the next budget conference, when it will find the forgotten key from Soria Moria to the will to invest in research. Norway needs it, and it needs research.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-11.ana.ud429e733	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-11.ana.ud429e736	This government is charging for training in prisons, because it is so important that when prisoners get out, they have received education. The Christian People's Party commends this bet in the setting, but the Left meets this bet with silence. Does not the former Minister of Justice really think that this is a good and important priority? Or is there a lack of roughness that is the Doorum line?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-11.ana.ud429e741	No, the doorline was starting to praise the government to hold up an aid budget. I would like to commend this, because when Bondevik II operated with other estimates, which enabled us to prioritise, we also strengthened this field, in the supplementary position for the current year. I think it's an excellent measure; it's a measure that many people have burned for – my successor, Knut Storberget, has burned for it. I think it is very good to do so, and of course there are measures that we support. So if I didn't bring it in instead, I would take it more than I would like, because I think it's a good measure. And then it would be nice if Huitfeldt's next representative had the same enthusiasm to defend research. There, I wish you every success in the fight until the next budgetary conference.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-11.ana.ud429e746	I note that the intermediate part is some of the government's priorities, among others. with assistance and with regard to the municipalities, and here we look at the various parties' alternative budgets that one will be able to face some challenges in future civil cooperation. In the alternative budget of the Left, we see that a person collects some money, among other things. by increasing kindergarten rates, by increasing the characteristics of minimum pensioners, disability, chronically ill, and by not introducing free learning material into secondary school. When one sees this in connection with Right's cuts on aid, on agriculture, etc., is this what we can expect from a future civil government – perhaps?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-11.ana.ud429e751	I believe that the representative Elvik should read the Left's alternative as an alternative to the alternative representative Elvik could have obtained. Because it's clear that if we had a higher maximum price, we would have had kindergartens for those who needed it, but the maximum price, and the adjustment we're making to the net pay scheme for seafarers to turn it, for example. Of course, in order to improve our skills, we are involved in financing the future of research. For politics is the priority, so we recognize our priorities, and we just notice that we are giving a completely different priority than the government parties and the SV. The most serious thing about SV is that there are few parties that have flown so high in order to bet on the environmental side – which I am not going to do as a topic here – and to bet on research and knowledge, and through the comments of the representative, Requam, you are proclaiming the nearest day of judgment by a smaller cut in a budget. I did not take it up from the pulpit, but SV has come into the situation that you have not been able to fill up what you really thought was important. I hope that the SV Party can seek inspiration in the Left's budget, so that the next budget solution from the government parties can find something that defends higher education and research. Because that's the future, that's what we have to build on.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-11.ana.ud429e756	The representative of Dørum, both from the pulpit today and in press releases earlier in the fall, has used great words to stamp this government's commitment to research and higher education. But the reality is that in the budget to be adopted today, there is a real growth in R & D of 2.5 p.m. for 2007. How will the representative of Dørum characterise the 2005 draft budget – from the government he himself was part of – which had a real decline of 2.3 pst. ?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-11.ana.ud429e761	Over the period of government that I was in, we felt that we had a real dialogue with Research Norway, where we had confidence that the government would do something, based first of all on the Bondevik Is Research Communication, which was perceived as a paradigm shift, positive, and second on the Clement Research Communication. A dialogue was held, and that dialogue brought about a sharp increase in the 2006 budget. One felt obliged by one's own research report. In the opposition, the Left continues to feel committed. We feel obliged, for example. to have SV opinions against in this room when we are in opposition, within a responsible budget framework. We don't operate with oil billions other than what the government is doing, we operate with the same framework, we don't run and play with money, we operate with the money that's there. Then I feel well that we have tried to fight for a consistent line like a small party in government, and continue to do it as a larger party outside government. Keeping a line is an expression of wanting something in politics, it's an expression of prioritizing, and what I've done on behalf of the Left this fall, saying that we prioritise higher education and research, I'm going to continue. At the moment when the government is doing something positive with it, I'm also going to say something positive about it. But that's not how far I've had reason to go.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-11.ana.ud429e766	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-11.ana.ud429e770	Let me first highlight a couple of other issues that have not been much affected in the debate, but which are interesting to draw up, and which concern the whole and the breadth of the budget we are discussing today. The initiative in prison education, within the Programme for Basic Skills in Work and in Study Associations, as well as our efforts at the Peace Centres, are important pieces of a whole for our government. When I bring it forward, it is because it is not very often a demonstration train for prison education or for study associations – or for that matter for the 400,000 workers who cannot read and write, who are currently in Norwegian working life, and who have a job, who buys and hears every week, but who are never able to read what is there; they just look at the pictures. These programs that we've started are a very important part of the breadth of the knowledge that our government represents, which is also reflected in the fact that kindergartens are included as part of the whole of the Ministry of Knowledge. It's this width that's essentially the starting point for my post, because now I'm going to come back to a lot of single elements in this. It shows that the knowledge society is made up of many important aspects. Not least, this basic competence program, which I'm drawing out, is a very important piece of this whole thing. It is therefore also important to underline what I think has been a point in many budget debates here in the Stortinget, namely the commitment to the local economy. When I bring it forward, it's because we and our government have broken a continuous downward trend over many years. I note that not even the rapporteurs of the Right Party or the Progress Party send back all the money we have given them. They have now made it possible again in the municipalities to invest in knowledge, to invest in the school, to invest in kindergartens, but also in elderly care and other important care tasks for which a municipality is responsible. ==References== 1/3 of the municipality's population goes to school. It has been shown that a long-term decline has now been halted in Kommune-Norway. In many municipalities, teachers are reputable, and you look optimistically at the future. Even right-wing rapporteurs do. I had not long ago the joy of visiting Lillesand and a pleasant, jovial Right-Rapporteur, who was so grateful that there was finally a government that cared about what he cared about, namely quality in elementary school, and that he did not just get new messages from Erna Solberg about cutting. He even said when we drove a car to the airport, "I said to Erna, if you keep doing that, we'll lose the election." And that's exactly what the right did in the last big shot. When I bring this forward, it's because when the Right in this debate and in other debates brings out the money they're going to spend, it's all right, but the point is that they have a significant part to cover up. Had they continued with the power, the money they are now using had not been found. That, of course, is part of politics. We put considerable effort into the Knowledge promise and continue what has been a cross-political effort here in the Stortinget. A total of NOK 1.4 billion will be spent next year on skills and quality development in primary school. It's a very important piece. Let me stress that I am pleased that there is a total mass behind this, for this great commitment to competence and to the Knowledge Lift is an important common political asset. Three hundred and seventy-five million bets. SEK in continuing training of teachers, not least the representative of Dørum, is a very important part of this. We're making changes for next year, because it's clear, as some teams have said, that these funds don't come out as desired. So we've done several things. In dialogue with the KS and the Education Association, we have now reached an agreement on how to move forward together. I'm glad. But not least, we have also strengthened supervision. Supervision should now have the possibility of ensuring that these funds are used properly. Clearly, when society spends as much money over as many years on continuing education as we do now, we need to get back to better quality and more knowledge, and the teachers need to feel that we're betting on them. For this is the biggest bet ever on the teacher's corps. And I'm glad. Let me also draw up what the representative Dagrun Eriksen said in his post on the drop-out, and how important it is now to focus on this piece as well. On Friday we will present a big message where this will be an important perspective. I'm glad that the Christian People's Party has over time been busy with this. It's interesting to see that in the previous magnification period it wasn't focused on this at all. But this issue has been known in Norwegian school for a long time. What we now see more clearly is that the reason for the drop-out in high school is not in high school. It's there a long time ago. It is located among others. in primary school, and it also lies there before that. The children who master basic skills succeed better both in school and in other life. The big message presented on Friday, which the Stortinget then receives for treatment, will give much of the direction we are going to make our primary school better, and how we are going to get more of our young people to succeed in high school – which I am absolutely convinced that there will be a broad connection in the Stortinget. Let me conclude by saying that a lot of articles have been about higher education – we have been discussing that for many rounds here in Stortinget. But let me just say as a small apropos: we're not debatable that there are high expectations in higher education. And that's good. At the same time, however, we cannot minimize the fact that there is now a case where there are 2.3 billion unused in the university and higher education sectors. This is part of the reality you have to take over. So over the years, money has been spent, which means that – as many people have said quite correctly – it is not going to be cut-offs at universities and universities this year. You use savings. But we will come back to Stortinget with an offensive bet. The whole of the higher education budget that lies here is far better than in many of the budgets that Stortinget has been receiving in recent years.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-11.ana.ud429e793	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-11.ana.ud429e796	The representative, Mr Dørum, was committed to keeping a line in education policy. I have included the budgetary position for 2004–2005, when the Council of State was in opposition. It was a budget where the government – the then Bondevik II government – proposed 78 million. kr i cut in the university and higher education sectors in decline in the number of places of study. In this budgetary position, the red-green parties are going very hard to attack the cut-off proposal that is right above 1/4 of the budget cut that this government is now imposing on the university and higher education sectors. I want to challenge the Council of State directly on this. Why was it so dramatic to cut 78 million? kr in 2005, when in 2007 it is entirely undramatic to cut 274 million. Do you really want to delete this item?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-11.ana.ud429e806	As I said in my main post, the university and higher education sector now has a significant reserve in the account of the Bank of Norway. If you take away what are provisions for the employer's fee and that kind of question, you're left with NOK 2.3 billion. These are listed in the Riksrevisions setting, which is located here in Stortinget, and which will now be treated by Stortinget. The reasons for that are many. It is not least because there is now a budgetary mechanism for transferring funds. But it does, of course, mean that the budget management of universities and colleges is now largely non-dramatic. The starting point is that you've had money on your book. In addition, earnings finance is reinforced – let me just say – which means that the net amount is approx. $180 million. NOK and not 250 million. kr, because there is a gain on the earnings finance, which also gives plus. Our starting point is that higher education has had good years. And that's good. We're still going to give them good years. They have also received it, higher education and research as a whole, in this budget. It's far better than many of the budgets we've been dealing with in Stortinget through my many years here in the house.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-11.ana.ud429e815	There are some interesting things to grasp at at the state council's posts. One is that the Council of State believes that during the previous period there was no focus on basic skills and drop-outs in high school. I just want to remind you that the great reform, the promise of knowledge, is the great commitment to basic skills that will lead to the decline, among other things. in higher education is lower because the students acquire basic skills. But it's interesting that SV was the party that was most opposed to the new curricula with clear objectives of competence, referring to, as the representative Rolf Reikvam said, that the students risked having to be able to multiply the tables, that is. students risked having to acquire basic skills. The second thing that is interesting to grasp is what the Council of State says about the provisions in the university and higher education sectors. There is nothing to suggest that there is SEK 2.3 billion in set aside reserves in the university and higher education sectors. That figure has been rejected by the University and Higher Education Council and believes that the Riksrevision has interpreted the figures incorrectly because they have not seen the net budgeting. Can the Council of State explain the composition of the provisions in the higher education sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-11.ana.ud429e824	Let me first say that I'm glad that the Right now focuses on the drop-out in high school, because that will mean that the big message coming to treatment is likely to get a very broad approach in the Storting. It is important, because many of the measures proposed there can make more young people master, more young people learn. There's been a good foundation through a lot of conciliation here in Stortinget. It's also very positive. In those areas of education policy where broad and political consensus can be achieved, more emphasis is also placed on their implementation. The promise of knowledge is a reform that certainly many different parties could have had as their primary point of view, but which has now become our common good of thought. It started under Trond Giske, continued under Kristin Clamet and is now being implemented under our government. I think it is a very heavy burden for this reform that there is so much cross-political consensus about it. That again means that we can carry it out with all the force and weight that such a great and important reform must have. With regard to the provision of the university and higher education sectors, I welcome the treatment of the Stortinge. Here it's the National Auditor's office that said it's NOK 2.3 billion. I've seen the configuration of what the provision will come about, but it will be the treatment of this by the Stortinge who will actually determine how much this provision is.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-11.ana.ud429e835	A heart attack first: I understand that the government council is missing the Stortinget, but I wish that he used most of his intervention on government policy and not on attacks on other parties. I would also like to commend the Council of State for having followed up the great efforts of the Bondevik government in kindergartens. $3.5 billion is a big sum, and it's an important investment to get full babysitting. But at the same time, I've been following some government councils closely when they're in budget struggles, and this has certainly cost. In a rising budget, we have been cut: cut to universities and colleges, cut to colleges, no new scholarship positions, cut to student kindergartens and so weak a commitment to research that a combined university, university and research sector – not just the people in this room – finds reason to react strongly. Does the Council agree that this bet on kindergartens and other areas he has had to pay dearly for? The Christian People's Party succeeded in both child care and research and higher education.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-11.ana.ud429e844	The budget that I have submitted to the Stortinget is a very good, comprehensive budget from the Ministry of Knowledge. The kindergarten is, of course, the field that draws the most money, a total of SEK 3.2 billion more in the year's budget than in the last year's budget. A large part of this is the result of fortunately building more kindergartens, and it triggers more funds. Then we also have high ambitions in the future. We're going to try to get full babysitting over next year, and it's realistic that we can do it. But it requires full pressure, and it does not at least require a significant financial contribution from the state, which is in it. Let me respectfully say that when the representative Eriksen boasts of the previous government's bet on kindergartens, it was a bet that took place in Stortinget. It was here that the funds came, through continuous conciliation, which the Christian People's Party unfortunately did not attend, because they were put in government with other parties that did not seem to have such an important place in kindergarten. It also appears clearly in some of the posts we hear here today. The starting point is that this is now a become a common property, and I am pleased about that. The bet on kindergartens is a lot of parties here in the Stortinget that are now going to stand together, and it's positive. When it comes to investing in higher education, it's no different than what we've repeated many times. [[The President clubs.]] It's clear that it's within the higher... Club it, President?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-11.ana.ud429e853	Yeah, the president's club.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-11.ana.ud429e856	Then we'll do it in the next line.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-11.ana.ud429e862	I've had so many lines to the Council of State on research that I'm leaving it alone. The conflict line is well known. I want to take up another area, and it is the part of the Knowledge promise that is going to bet on continuing training for teachers, so that they are both professionally and educationally well rusted. I have, through the knowledge I have gained from travelling, listening and learning – because it is not always the same knowledge that you can gather through statistics – discovered alarming differences in this country. I've discovered places where people actually get a lot of stuff systematically. I've experienced it in this city, where I visit a lot of schools. But elsewhere, I feel that this is very random. It worries me, also because at the hearing in connection with the budget we received signals that this could be the case. If one is to succeed in securing a good future, one must make sure that knowledge is there. So my question to the Council of State is: what will the Council of State do now to make sure that these means of training end up where they are going, that they give teachers professional immersion and pedagogical cultivation, and that they do not end up in something that can be described as interesting for the employer, but not so very useful for the teachers?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-11.ana.ud429e871	I am pleased to be able to elaborate on this, for it is a common concern of the representative of the Dørum and the Government. They criticised us for spending 375 million. - Thank you. - Thank you. - Thank you. Some of that criticism is certainly justified, and it means that we have now entered into a very close dialogue with school owners and the Education Association to ensure a more local anchoring of which courses are to be offered. In addition, we have strengthened supervision of this. Fafo's report on the use of funds shows, after all, that conditions are a little bit better than the Dørum representative now expresses, but when such a broad criticism is raised, we take this seriously. We hope that this year it will contribute to an even closer follow-up, and that it will become even more visible in the individual classroom that we are actually betting. Now it is also said that in the first year more funding was spent on school management — and this was not part of what teachers experienced as their reality — for school management was a very important but neglected task. That means that the principals have been prioritised now, the first year. New areas will then be given priority in the future. Real science and language are some of the things we'll bet on next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-11.ana.ud429e880	There's a lot of exciting happening in the north – and it's very interesting – but it's also very strange. I could imagine knowing what the Council of State thinks about the favoritism and monopoly of one player in pilot training. We see that the technical report on this point points to other and better actors, and not least to a lower cost. So if it's not just district policy considerations that form the basis of the Council of State, what is it?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-11.ana.ud429e885	The government wants to build up a traffic pilot training in North Norway related to the environment at the NAC in Bardufoss. This case has been filed with ESA and is now for treatment there. This means that there is a standstill in the Norwegian treatment of this, but we are in dialogue with ESA on how to move forward. As of today, we have no civil training for traffic pilots in Norway, and we want to get that in place. It's the professional environments we have in Tromsø and Bardufoss that we want to build on. We think this is an important bet, and we're going to build it up over the year. Once we get a clarification with ESA, we're going to build a university degree with a Bachelor's degree at the University of Tromsø. That process has, as I said, stopped due to the case with ESA, but we are now in dialogue with ESA to find a good solution to this. It says the matter per person. the current date, but the Government's decision to add this to North Norway is firm.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-11.ana.ud429e892	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-11.ana.ud429e895	Our universities and colleges are some of the most important social institutions we have. They are referred to as engines in the development of the knowledge society. And that's not hard to agree with. They train key personnel within all parts of our society. The development of higher education in the last decades has also contributed to higher education being available to all those who want it, throughout the country. It was not natural for higher education to become as easily accessible as it is today. During the work of expanding the district colleges, there was a lot of resistance that had to be broken down. Ingäld Ørbeck Sørheim, a secretary of the so-called Ottosen Committee, described the process during a post he had at the Research Association's seminar on 7 November this year. I was not present during his lecture, but I have read it several times afterwards, because it easily describes a difficult process that led to an enormous lifting for various parts of Norway by making higher education available to the many and not just reserved for the few. Today's colleges continue to play a major role in the development of all parts of our country. Here teachers, pre-school teachers and nurses are trained, all of which are important in the development of our welfare society. The development of these education systems towards more research-based education is of great importance in how to solve the challenges of the future by working differently and smarter than today. The Minister of Knowledge should therefore be very commended for having understood the importance of following up on the evaluation of nurse training and teacher training by NOKUT. For nurse training, this means a great deal of effort to achieve the 20 pst target. first position competence in the training. However, when the opposition in its comments finds together and questions whether it is necessary to meet this requirement of competence in nursing training, they have not understood what the Council of State has so exemplary. Indeed, it is absolutely necessary to focus on the quality of the training of new nurses, and it is absolutely necessary to stimulate more research and development in the care sector. In this sector there will be major reforms in the coming years. Psychiatric reform is currently under way, and there are several consequences. Psychiatric reform would probably have been easier to implement if the municipalities had had more professionals in place. Similarly, the reform would have been easier to implement if more research and development work had been linked to practice during implementation. Due to demographic developments in our country, we will see an increase in demand for services in the care sector in the coming period. Then there is no time to lower the level of professional ambition in the training of nurses or other health and care professionals – on the contrary. It is also a surprising position based on all criticisms that have come about the lack of research ambitions of the red-green government. The position is also wrong for those who want more female professors. We do not achieve our gender equality ambition in academia by making other demands for education where women are overweight, than for studies elsewhere. It brings me to the topic of equality in the academy, which we had an interpellation debate on earlier this fall. In retrospect, I have received many enquiries on the subject, and I have also attended a consultation conference at the University of Oslo in advance of the University Board's treatment of a new gender equality plan. I am now cautiously optimistic and am pleased that the Council of State is following up the work that is now taking place, primarily at our universities. Universities know that they have to succeed better in this area if they are to fulfill their ambitions to be internationally excellent in both education and research. What happens at universities will also have a major impact on what is happening across the whole sector in this area. I want to address the criticism that is constantly being made by the cut in the basic allocation to universities and colleges next year. For my part, I think the Minister of Knowledge is right to go through the sector's economy to see why there's so much money on the book. The sector has good explanations for all the heads, but from a socio-economic point of view, it is right to go through this to make sure that the money is spent as they are supposed. When money is used to strengthen primary school and high school, that's good. The higher education institutions have complained about the professional level of students when they come to different studies. That complaint is probably justified. But instead of leaving studies and leaving study places empty, I think it is more offensive to go in and strengthen the professional investment in primary and secondary school. And that's what we're doing in this budget, which takes the implementation of the promise of knowledge seriously. I look forward to the development of higher education in Norway in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-11.ana.ud429e918	In 1975, the American professor of psychology and pedagogics, Rollo May, wrote the book "To create". His point is that it's the will that shows the way. In the same year, it was established that Norway was a decline in international research and higher education. What's the situation now, 30 years later? The current government has cut $25 billion for the Research Fund and $274 million. kr for higher education. Only 22 million have been proposed. NOK 300 million of a documented need. kr to equipment in higher education institutions. The Research Council will receive 230 million. DKK of a documented need of NOK 1.1 billion. Is it what is called to bet on research, education and knowledge businesses? If we are to develop society further, it must be a number of more attractive ways of producing knowledge. Science and research are not particularly valued in Norway, and this is a serious problem. At the same time, Norway lacks wage incentives to stimulate learning. The government says two thirds of the research effort will come from business. It is not uncommon in other countries, but in Norway, the eternal mantra has been that research is to be paid by the public and not influenced by business. The private industry and businesses are produced by the red-green as suspicious – yet it is the enterprises that must bear our wealth. It takes time to reverse this anti-business trend. The Church, Education and Research Committee has been on a study visit to the United States, and all members took note of the liberal economy of American universities. The United States spends much less on education than Norway does. For higher education, the US uses 2.6 pst., where more than half come from private sources. If we look at the statistics of the top ten universities in the world, it's dominated by American universities. It's just Oxford and Cambridge of European universities who, with an emergency alarm, are on the list. So where do we want to go with our Norwegian universities? Wilhelm von Humboldt outlined the model of the modern university 200 years ago and stressed the importance of combining university education with world-class research. Norwegian and European universities are moving towards low-cost mass universities, which are defined as social goods. Universities academics are spending more and more of their time on bureaucratic tasks and worrying about money. The progress party sees this as an undesirable and unfortunate development, and therefore we ask ourselves if there is any way out of the mess. Of course, one option is to maintain that the public is to solve everything, and to ensure that Norwegian taxpayers pay significantly more for their leading universities. The Progress Party does not believe in such a solution. Another possibility would be to look at Europe as a whole, and to reconcile resources and to feed some environments to become world leaders. This has been done with impressive results in the particle physics laboratories of the birthplace of CERN – World Wide Web. But with the background of European history and the independence of the nation states, I don't think this is a dangerous path. And if it were, it would take a long time to establish such environments. A third possibility is to scale up a little bit to what's been the success factors of American universities. Some committee noticed, this was with donations from former students who felt a close connection with their old university and the environment that had ensured them success further in life. We saw educational buildings that had been built by former students by setting a certain percentage of their annual income to their university. We know about the founder of Nike who donated 645 million. to his place of study. 60 pst. of those who leave Princeton, donating large amounts to the university. In addition, it is not uncommon for former students to give willow gifts to their old school. Most American universities are private. In addition to donations, they are financed from philanthropic and commercial funds and through course fees. We heard about anonymous student recordings to record the most capable students, and grant schemes that balanced social and economic differences. Since universities in the United States are as market-dependent as they are, they get a completely different incentive basis to be on the quest for innovation, which we saw, for example. in relation to entrepreneurship, e-learning, day and evening education, freedom of choice for students and bottom-up processes — rather than impositions in relation to teacher development. Can we then transfer some of these positive elements to Norway? Well, it's about, as I said initially, about courage to want. The red-green rhetoric with clockwork on public solutions together with their hotness and suspicion of private business, which we have seen in the debate on the law on free school, where private schools and in-house schools are being swept together in one pot, and a marginal offer is being made as a set-aside, makes me doubt whether the courage and will are present at the government parties. The changes that are now being introduced into the TAX FUNN scheme are also being incorporated into this picture. Norway has the opportunity to translate some of the great values we have on Norwegian continental shelf into knowledge – knowledge production that can give Norway and the world a much better future, among other things. in relation to technological development, resource management, safety and the environment. The government, with its so-called "sleep cutting" in higher education and research, has shown that it does not want such a change. The size, which under this government has been reduced from being a legislative assembly to becoming a ‘law’ assembly, can only come with pious desires and hope for change at the next elections.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-11.ana.ud429e941	The 2007 budget represents a solid increase in the framework of the church area. I have noticed that the Committee in its position notes that although the religious diversity in Norway is greater than ever before, there have never been any more members of the Norwegian Church at the same time. The fact is an important background for the commitment to the church budgets. We are following up in the 2007 budget the stepping-up plan adopted by the Stortinget for the reform of CSR, by 100 million. SEK at the disposal of credit training in 2007. The other religious and life views outside the Norwegian Church will benefit from the same proportional allocation from its membership, from this scheme. It is a good investment not only in tomorrow's church, but also in the Norwegian society of the future – security and knowledge of one's own faith and religious identity give rise to dialogue and fruitful coexistence in an increasingly multicultural and multi-religious society. The training of faith in the Norwegian Church and other religious communities contributes to this. It is good to see that there is a broad consensus in the Stortinge on the reform. Proste reform is also being followed up with a solid increase in 2007. It is important to find new ways of working in the Church, so as to organise the labour force as best as possible and get the most out of the resources you have. Having good leaders who have time to be leaders is an important part of that work. In addition, there is room for other minor increases, including: for the seafarer’s churches there is an increase in 2007. As regards the maintenance of church buildings, the Ministry and Government will consider the issue of extending the framework of the interest compensation scheme established in 2005. But it's still about 150 million. kr of the overall investment framework has not yet been allocated because applications and projects have not been sufficiently notified. I also remind you that the Government will consider entering into a state investment grant for the refurbishment of the oldest churches – a question we will come back to in the context of the revised national budget for 2007. As regards the grant scheme for private church buildings, which was terminated on 1 January 2006, the Stortinget has reached an agreement to reintroduce the grant in 2007 and also to do something in the new age compared to 2006, so that the case should be resolved. The State budget for 2007 also includes the Government to strengthen dialogue between the religious and life-view communities. We are strengthening the budgets, and we are also proposing for the first time an operating grant to the Islamic Council of Norway. We believe it is important to have good organs that can be the ones that contribute to the dialogue. This strengthens our society across different religions. We are interested in providing meeting places and dialogue to contribute to increased knowledge, to improve understanding of each other's views and to serve as a tool to solve common challenges in a complex society. We are now in the final phase of the consultation on the relationship between the State and the Norwegian Church. 2 500 hearing bodies have been asked to make their views known. It's all church councils and bodies, it's municipalities, religious and life views, and many small and large organizations. There's a lot of excitement about the hearing, all the way to, and maybe above, what's been in similar hearings in the past. In particular, there are very many councils that take the opportunity to make their views known. Still, opinions come in, and there are also different bodies that want a little bit more time. That is why we have decided to extend the deadline for consultation out of the year, so that those who have not yet received their replies will be able to do so, so that we get the best possible basis for summarising the outcome of the hearing. We have wanted to stimulate a wide-ranging debate on the church system. The issue affects many, and creates a broad and growing commitment. It is the government's goal that we preserve the Norwegian Church as a broad, open and inclusive people's church, while at the same time addressing the important fundamental issues affecting the relationship between state and religion, and also the important minority rights contained in the case. Our goal is to get the broadest possible basis and the widest possible solution. This is not a question suitable for party political markings. It affects all people in Norway at important stages of life, and then it is also important to try to be convergent across the boundaries of the lot.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-11.ana.ud429e960	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-11.ana.ud429e963	There are many of us who sometimes enjoy listening to the input of the Council of State on culture. I record that the commitment is not as burning when the Church is the theme. So the government has now opened up attacks on the asset of the Information Society's fund, so that it can be reduced. Government transfers to local church democracy were cut, and the government is not following up the proste reform, where about 52 performances are now lacking to fill the reform. So that means that the government is now opening up the Church's slowness, but surely it can be tapped for resources, and it's happening in the middle of a process that the Council of State itself refers to as an important process of the state church's future connection to the state. Why will the Council of State not contribute to providing the Church with a stable and good financial framework in the middle of a process of conversion?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-11.ana.ud429e972	As far as I could register, there were just three errors in the premise of the question. Firstly, the capital of the Information Society's fund is not impaired. What we're saying is that when you've invested in shares, you can not only take dividends, but also take out the appreciation of the shares. There's no doubt that one of the reasons why you invest in shares is not only that you're going to get dividends, but also that you're going to be able to take out the capital increase that shares give. And when one sells these shares again, both dividends and capital appreciation should be possible out of the fund. It doesn't reduce the total capital, but it's a way of taking out the investments over time. The second is about local church democracy. We have strengthened the local economy by DKK 12.5 billion from 2005 to 2007. The fact that we then step down a little bit on an ear-marked system, gets completely, and more than that, compensated by the fact that the municipalities have better budgets. The same criticism came in 2006. So then just the addition that the Municipality of Oslo made to the church budget after we had strengthened the municipal economy was greater than the total national cut in the earmarked arrangement of the church council in the municipality.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-11.ana.ud429e980	I also noticed, as Anders Anundsen did, that maybe there wasn't a great deal of commitment here. I think you should accept that with the measures the government has taken, you attack the real returns in the Information Society's fund, OVF, and, depending on how you now deal with this with Santa Claus, you'll be able to weaken the fund very strongly. I note that there are many good perpetrators around church-state, but at the same time I have to wonder a little about where it will be of the greatest popular hearing. Because I have a very strong feeling that there are some people who have a preconceived attitude about where this is going to end, and I think that the Minister of Culture has actually been involved in creating. I hope it's not like that, but he can comment here. In this context, one might also wonder whether the treatment of the OVF is such that one wants to weaken the fund, so that it will not be very interesting to discuss this when the debate comes to the seventh and last part of the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-11.ana.ud429e987	It is clear that there is a part that has a pre-conceived position on the end of the State-Church debate, and among them is the Right Party, which has decided at its national meeting that the State-Church regime should be abolished. It is impossible to demand that everyone should not have taken a stand on the church issue for all the years that we have had the Church of State – that is the case with the debate. The government has not concluded, I have not concluded, and my party has not concluded. We are going to do that in addition to the spring and the year, before then in the autumn of 2007, we are going to present a report on the state church question. In this context, it is important to listen to the hearings. It's interesting that what's called the Church, even has crackling points of view. The church meeting, which we fully respect as the supreme ecclesiastical body in many contexts, has decided to support a distinction between state and church in the sense that the Constitutional Union is being removed. At the same time, it is now quite clear that a majority of the councils do not want that distinction. So here we have to try to see if there are any common solutions that can gather both grassroots and tops in the Norwegian Church, but also all the minority reasons that need to be taken care of in such a solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-11.ana.ud429e994	Since I gave birth to the previous Council of State that had the word here, a visit on the fact that he did not talk about the matter, I will praise this council because he did so and did not attack the parties in the hall. Sometimes when we meet this Council of Churches, I feel that there are two different versions of the Council of Churches we meet. At the opening of the Church Meeting, the Council of State gave a speech in which he, among other things, spoke. said: ‘Many will have strong opinions. Many will affect you. But it is you who decide, and with dialogue and respect I am sure that you will take that responsibility." This Council of States also invites a broad dialogue, as we have heard today in the State-Church debate. The «other» Council of State saw us in our country two weeks later taking a settlement with the Church meeting, which had come to a different conclusion from what a majority of the councils had. This Council of State already seemed to have concluded in the State–Church debate when we saw him in the Best in Show at the Faculty of Publicities. I have to say that I like the first edition of the Council of Churches best. What government council should we really listen to – the one who has confidence and who wants dialogue, or the other?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-11.ana.ud429e1008	First of all, let me say that I would not in my wildest imagination have attacked any of the parties in this room. I appreciate that the representative Eriksen has taken note of this. Secondly, I would like to advise the representative to listen to the unfiltered Council of State, which you will find in the quotes from the Church Meeting, or "Live on Show" where it should now be. The word "find" and similar words are created by the media. I allowed myself to point out the paradox – without wanting to undermine the authority of the Church Meeting – that the Government as the Church Council of State is occasionally criticized for not following the advice of the church vote completely mathematically, for example. in the case of bishop's appointments. In this way neither has the Church meeting in its conclusions followed the church vote from the grassroots. I fully respect that. It is the essence of representative democracy that one can draw conclusions other than what a mathematical gallup democracy does, but then also those who criticize the Church Council of State, sometimes take these considerations into account, and respect that we do not always follow the purely mathematical conclusion.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-11.ana.ud429e1017	I will deal with the ‘first’ Council of State that Dagrun Eriksen mentioned in his question. As a member of the grassroots in the Norwegian Church, as a member of the parish council and as one who has met in the Church meeting for many years, I have recorded for the past ten to eleven years how the Church, in meeting with the Norwegian community and in meeting with living people about existing problems, has increased its own ceiling height, for example. in the case of homofiles. I was twelve years ago at a church meeting where, with 79 votes to 1, it was of course stated that women belong in all contexts. I've seen how church organs, consisting of people who have been elected in a very common way, are able to establish that there should be room for gay in marriageed positions. So the church's meeting with society has created and secured a ceiling height. Does the Council of State feel that this part of the state-church debate is something that he takes with him, and that makes an impression on him? I choose, like Dagrun Eriksen, in this exchange of words, to deal with the first edition of the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-11.ana.ud429e1026	Yes, absolutely. The church is changing all the time. In fact, there are religious communities — perhaps even smaller sects — that are very literal in their interpretation of religious texts and that have insurmountable problems with society around them. It is therefore very good that the Norwegian Church has always had the ability to interpret texts from its time and according to its society. That's what it's up to. All of us who are members of the Church, and who are not members of the various ecclesiastical bodies, have the full right to participate in these debates. I believe the debates that have been held, among other things. Homophili – also in the political environment – has influenced the Church in the right direction. One question in the church debate that I've allowed myself to raise, and which I think the Committee on Gender may be too small to touch, is: how should democracy be exercised and power conditions be in the future church? The fact that there is a draw in the Church is quite doubtful: both the head of the Church Council and the Director of the Church Council have been elected by a narrow majority. The proposals at the Church Meeting have also been adopted by a narrow majority. It is interesting to discuss the nature of the relationship of power and how each member of the church should be cared for in a future – possibly more emancipated – church.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-11.ana.ud429e1037	It can actually seem as if the Council of State is afraid of losing some power. There's a debate going on out there. There is more focus on the Church as such, and there is a raising of awareness among people about the meaning of the Church. The waves from the Muhammad drawings have begun to surface, but it turns out that there has been a new movement in Denmark. It may have arisen as a counterweight to Islam after what has happened. People flock to the churches – which are being filled – to ancient traditions and to the Christian cultural heritage. This is once again getting a larger value. Does the Council of State think anything similar will happen here in Norway? If so, what does the Council of State think about it?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-11.ana.ud429e1046	We see that people in a globalized age have a very need to find an identity and a security in terms of tradition and position. I think that's one of the explanations why a lot of common church members, for example. is critical of a distinction between state and church. You're not sure what will happen to the firm frameworks you have in life, even though you're very open to the fundamental objections to a state church. I think that a functioning multicultural diversity in society is not about us doing all the same, but about people being allowed to be different. It is about respecting and understanding each other across dividing lines – meeting, having dialogue and jobs to find common ground. A society must also have some common values. I believe that the State-Church debate should result in broad, unifying solutions, not in – as the Progress Party has wanted – a referendum. I once heard the Church Party spokesman say that it was thought that one could win over those who still want the Church of State. I don't think that's the way to approach the church debate. We need coherent, broad solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-11.ana.ud429e1055	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-11.ana.ud429e1058	The right is investing more for the future. This is about the foundation of Norway’s future well-being. The right takes this seriously in its alternative budget and will prioritise higher education and research with DKK 1.1 billion more. The freedom of trade in today's Norwegian economy is, as the committee leader said, «historically» good. We have an economic strength that hardly any other country in the world has. In spite of this, it is quite consistent in the committee setting that the less money, the greater the words and ambitions of government teams. As far as basic education is concerned, we all agree that the promise of knowledge should be financed. It comes true, but what is the content of what we're financing? The Minister of Knowledge Party does not have a programme that supports the basic ideas of the Knowledge Promise, which are: clear learning objectives, stricter requirements and clearer follow-up of the individual. Ownership in the form of performance requirements is not included. The ambitions of entering and entering school beyond average levels are also not included. This was where Kristin Clemet and Right in the last period broke with a long-standing trend in Norwegian school. If an individual student is to be assisted, development needs to be monitored and monitored. School owners and local politicians need to have detailed information on how to do a good job. Instead, the Minister of Knowledge reverses this to an average ambition. The school gate.no is made less interesting and less accessible. The level of ambition in terms of governance information relative to key business targets is lower for Norwegian schools than is the average Norwegian small business – unfortunately. Norwegian school can't live with that. Teachers deserve better, students deserve better, and not least Norwegian future well-being depends on a considerable increase in the level of ambition. A government with real ambitions for public schools would make it so good that the alternatives don't grow. It doesn't have to forbid them. The ambition to develop precise management tools needs to be raised. I am, like the majority, excited about the announcement of school and social cohesion, and in and of the initiative of the Minister of Knowledge in his speech earlier today announced that he would take action. Without laying down principles of monitoring and transparency on school outcomes, Norwegian school could not get one step closer to taking those who fall outside, seriously. In higher education and research, the words ‘high ambitions’ are at risk of becoming the speck of our time. Right wants action to follow word. Norway is lagging behind for research purposes. We're just halfway towards the goal that research is going to be 3 pst. of GDP and the latest statistics suggest that efforts are falling. In such a situation, the Minister of Knowledge chooses to cut basic appropriations for the UH sector, cut all new scholarships, cut research appropriations and lower the ambitions of the Research Fund. This suggests a total lack of understanding of the relationship between action and consistency. This lack of understanding is supported by the TaxFUNN. Business in Norway researches too little. There is a great need for incentives for private individuals to come close to the target of two thirds of national research. Does the Minister of Knowledge really think that it helps with reminders, meetings, and a warning index finger? For what does today's government do? Well, it cuts down on the SketteFUNN system and calls for meetings. The understanding of the relationship between action and consequence remains absent, as is the interaction between the private and public sectors. Tax FUNN is a scheme for the many small businesses in the whole country. It met in the districts, and the keen interest in skills and knowledge-based product development and production. Now, as the NHO and a number of other hearing bodies feared, there have been restrictions that could make it uninteresting. It is remarkable that this is done while one is still in the middle of an evaluation process. The budget paper also does not mention the impact that the cut will have on the demand for research services in the UH sector. I asked the Minister of Knowledge about this in a Question Time, but never got an answer, so I leave the question open for answering today. The government puts the big words instead of the big money into school, higher education and research. It has been stripped and stripped of most of the glory in this area during the harvest. On behalf of Norwegian future well-being, we hope that it is the last time a rest is taken before you have at all started the race!
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-11.ana.ud429e1079	The Norwegian Church has been particularly focused this year. Of course, this is related to the ongoing debate on the relationship between state and church. In connection with the discussions that are taking place, the Church is getting a better insight into what is being done by the organization. We're not talking about a small organization. There are several thousand employees who receive millions of visitors. I claim it's a very complex organization. In any case, it turns out when a participant in meetings where the relationship between state and church is a theme, that there are many who don't have the whole picture of how the Church is organized and funded. Nevertheless, the three governmental parties have been consciously cautious in the consideration of the budget in the Committee and have not provided any leads that could influence or signal the debate on the relationship between state and church. Now that we are discussing the 2007 budget, it is important to make it visible that the state is one of two major contributors. The state is the smallest of these two. The State contributes by approx. one third of the Church's economy. Nevertheless, it is about large amounts – almost NOK 1.3 billion. The second major contributor is the municipalities. So there's the local government that decides. I think it's important for this local anchoring. It is to the extent that the entire Committee states that ‘The Norwegian Church shall be a nationwide, locally anchored church’. A short time ago, in many municipalities, there was a very tight economy. I myself remember that the consultants sent out a message to various units in the municipality, where they were asked to make the savings potential visible. Local church administration also had to save money. The municipality has a great responsibility for the operation and maintenance of churches, cemeteries and personnel as a result. Therefore, we must ensure that welfare producer No. 1 in this country is increasingly being able to discharge its responsibilities. We believe that local welfare construction and management depend on a solid economy. Therefore, the local economy has improved significantly, simply because we prioritise this. As the Church receives so much from just the municipalities, it obviously provides security for the Church as well. The reform of training is a high priority of the Church Meeting. The reform shall provide insight and security of its own faith and religious identity. Identity building is important for mutual respect, dialogue and good coexistence in a multi-religious society. I have the impression that there are many good projects as a result of the reform. Therefore, it is gratifying that it is proposed to increase the allocation by 24 million. kr. A total of 100 million will be allocated. kr for this reform. At the same time, a continuous evaluation of the reform is expected. Another reform, which is actually an organisational development, is the so-called proste reform. There is a need for more performances, and I am pleased that it is decided to increase this post by 7 million. kr. How the money is disposed of determines the dioceses. We all know that we live in a multi-religious society, and more than ever, that's why there's dialogue between religions and life-vision societies to avoid conflicts. This is prevention of best varieties. In Norway, I think we have seen very good results from such a dialogue, not least in the wake of the cartoons of the prophet Muhammad. The Cooperation Council for Creeding and Living Societies is important in this way, and a certain strengthening of these forums is therefore joyous. Finally, I must say that I am satisfied that good cooperation with the Christian People's Party has resulted in subsidies for private church buildings being left in the budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-11.ana.ud429e1099	In today's debate I intend to be a little personal. I'm going to start with my three grandchildren, little John of nearly five years, Kristine of twelve and Marion of 17. Little Johannes goes to a public kindergarten in Tromsø town. Kristine attends a combined primary and secondary school in the municipality of Lyngen, while Marion attends the health and social education course at Breivika secondary school in Tromsø. Little John has room in a good and safe nursery. Now we're going to do a thought experiment. We're going to think 20 years ahead in time. Then we're at 2026. John himself has had a little child. Then he might say: Think, when I was a kid, I had to be in a kindergarten queue for two years before I got a seat. Animals were kindergarten too. Luckily, however, we had a government in 2006, where SV was also involved, and we had a knowledge minister named Øystein – the last name I can't remember – who got through for full child care coverage across the country. Think, he got that, along with his grandfather, who was alternate at Stortinget in the autumn of 2006. Since then, we have had full child care coverage, and kindergartens are today a full offer for all children under school age. There's nothing we need to fight for now, when little Ole is going to have kindergarten from the fall. So Kristine, who is 12 years old, goes to a combined high school. It's a good school that embraces everyone, and that includes everyone. Regardless of social background and whether they're schooly or, unfortunately, they haven't got the best body or head of the world, they're included together in a school, in a group, and everyone gets education according to their abilities and needs. She can also say in 20 years: Think that in 2006 Lyngen got a financial framework from the red-green government, led by Jens, Kristin and Åslaug, which gave local politicians a space for action that was the starting point for a new and modern school in Lyngen. The content of the school changed over the years that followed, so that the public school in Lyngen became a model school that has now for 20 years provided the basis for me and many of my friends from that time, who have received higher education and today own modern knowledge-based jobs, where we are working on different exciting issues in the disciplines that started during Jens Stoltenberg's North Region Initiative, which started in the autumn of 2006. Marion, who now, in 2026, is the head of home disease in Lyngen, remembers the autumn of 2006 and the following three years. What happened then at the secondary schools in Troms was quite unique. We received free teaching material, a circus line was started at the Tromsdalen secondary school, and in addition, the exchange of students between Cambridge and Tromsø could continue and further develop. And in Lyngen, we had FabLab, who has become a unique institution in the North Region bet. In addition, I have a friend who works in Narvik, in the North Norwegian Peace Centre. And it has been said on several occasions that the autumn of 2006 was a brand year for the peace centers, because then it was really invested in these centers all over the country. 2006 is now, 2026 is in 20 years. What is reality then, fortunately nobody knows, but we can write history for the years 2006-2009. I hope that the story of the last few years towards 2010 will be that it was the years when we had a government and a great majority that wanted something, and that did what they wanted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-11.ana.ud429e1117	It was good with some spiritual replenishment from Tegen. Welfare rather than tax relief was the mandate that the voters gave us before the big shot. Fortunately, after four years of civil starvation of the municipal economy and, consequently, primary and secondary schools, the arrows are now pointing up. The reason for this, of course, is a conscious choice from us in the Workers' Party and our partners. We're aiming at building well-being that benefits everyone, rather than spending money on tax havens. Politics is about how we want society to evolve. Combined with a commitment to well-being, it is important for us to create equal opportunities for everyone. It is therefore important for us to prevent the market from taking over the role of the Community in relation to the fundamental welfare goods. The school is one of the areas that we don't want to commercialize. That's why we stop the commercialisation of the school, and we get a new private school law for spring. Equal opportunities for education are not least about individual resources. I am therefore glad that we are providing money for free teaching material in high school. I have recorded that the opposition criticises us in this way. It becomes empty rhetoric when you look at what the Bondevik government with the support of the Advance Party did in the last growing-up period. A single crown was not granted in the period from 2001 to 2005. At the same time, they terminated the lending scheme with school books that we started when Trond Giske was Minister of Education. It is therefore a little strange to hear the representative of the Progress Party from the pulpit here today saying that we are introducing an unpopular system, and have a long rhetoric about it. What has been most unpopular about free learning has been that the opposition here in the house would not have introduced it. They stopped the lending scheme that we started in its time. What is unpopular is that the system has never started, thanks to the opposition then having a majority. I just think that this is an expression of a bad conscience. Retorically, one may also be tempted to welcome the Advancement Party after they suddenly grant some money for free learning material. But that party has largely money for everything except for farmers, cohabitants and the world's poorest. So maybe that shouldn't surprise us. I'm glad we're strengthening adult education in the budget. Studies show that up to 400,000 adults do not have enough literacy skills. That means we have a formidable problem in front of us. Other challenges in this area are the need for new knowledge and continuing training in an increasingly complex society. We are particularly pleased with the strong increase in funding for basic skills programmes in the workplace and for the study federations. It was absolutely necessary, after the Bondevik government, with the support of the Progress Party, has systematically cut off support for the study federations. Furthermore, in its 2007 budget proposals, the Right and Advance Party are following up with strong cutbacks. This isn't about using cheese mats, it's about using a motorcycle case. It's a shame, but it's not surprising. In 2005, the study federations had 594 459 participants in their courses. Thus, the activity is extensive and provides an important training offer to large sections of the population. Another area that may not get the very big headlines, but which some of the speakers have been in today, is the peace centers. I'm glad that there's been a political struggle to strengthen the centres' economy. It is a recognition of the important work done at the North Norwegian Peace Centre in Narvik, the Norwegian Peace Centre at Lillehammer, the Foundation Archives in Kristiansand, the Falstad Centre in Levanger, the Holocaust Centre in Oslo. As a southerner, I will bring forward the Foundation Archive's work of documenting part of the story we must not forget, while using this knowledge to focus on human dignity and human rights. It is impressive that the Archives Foundation has 6 000 students per year on probation. This provides young people with an important basis for helping to build up the societies of the future and fight against anti-democratic forces.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-11.ana.ud429e1136	Now, of course, I could have thrown a bunch of words in my head at the Ruits, but he's not important enough. However, this is research. It's been a year since we last stood here and debated the different positions we have in relation to research and development. Has anything happened since the last time? Not big. State Council Djupedal has launched the frequently quoted word ‘sleep cutting’ in the research, which is just covering for the year that has passed, and which I see perhaps becoming comprehensive for the years that are coming. It's nice this with research. It requires long-termity, predictability, will and action. All of this is, in my view, absent from today's government budget for this area. The fact that the non-socialist side is in agreement on a substantial increase in the Research Fund is overlooked in silence. There's something strange about the word 'private'. Private schools, private hospitals, private solutions are words that have become a scoffing word in speeches from the Government and in debates with it. But research involves private involvement in a significant co-financing responsibility to achieve the objective of 3 pst. of gross domestic product for research in 2010. That's where the private will contribute 2 pst. and the public with 1 pst. To say it like this, they're good to have. Several in the business community respond in cash that the money they are expected to spend on this, they do not. If this increase by 2 pst. for the private sector, shall be based on 5 pst. Of the turnover, we're talking about large sums. The expectations of the private research share are so high that it is not considered realistic. The public contribution to the research effort should therefore be increased to 1,4 pst. of gross domestic product and the private share is reduced to 1,6 pst. In addition, the year that has passed has given us a negative development from approx. 1.7 pst. like it's been before, to 1.5 pst. of gross domestic product. Here, we need to get started as soon as possible to get the research back on the rails. There are areas in the budget which, ideally, should have been adopted for a longer period, precisely in order to get long-term and predictable into the decisions. That is the future we are talking about, a future in which Norway must not slow down. Research cannot only be turned on and off according to the political views and positions of the various governments. It's going to be wrong. But what is research? Some people think it's incredibly boring, and it's dry numbers. But for example, why does the tares disappear along the coast? What about finding the right vaccine against the dangerous bird flu? What about new materials in the oil and energy industries? What can we use composite materials for? Why must farmed stork have live feed when the farmed salmon does not need it? What about IP communications? What about chipping the car? Or maybe a little bit of a research on the rule of action? But State Council Djupedal pulls out the plug, and it gets dark. Only fantasy sets limits. But we're going to survive in the future as a knowledge nation, and we're going to be on the A team. Then we need to bet: Increase internationalisation, focus more on cooperation across previous divisions, and even closer interaction between knowledge triangle education, research and innovation. Also, efforts to strengthen the links between entrepreneurship and innovation and development are incredibly important to reach the top of nations that are investing in research. Research from private business is particularly cyclical and therefore becomes more damaging when research and development should have gone too far. Various incentives and incentives to business have been cut down, such as the TaxFUNN scheme, which has been introduced by many people here today. That's not the way to go. Finally, I would like to remind the Council of State of what the representative from SV Lena Jensen said in this room when St.meld. S. No The debate was held on 20 for 2004-2005: "But I am very concerned that we should not go into the same trap as we did in 2000 when we dealt with the previous research report, by setting targets that were not followed up." Further: ‘The story now says that we want the Council of State to come up with a plan for the escalation, and I will then challenge the Council of State to say something about when this plan will come.’ I want to grab that baton from SV and send it through us in the Progress Party back to the Swedish Government Council and ask: When will this concrete escalation plan come, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-11.ana.ud429e1173	The government has great ambitions for research and innovation policy. Norway will become one of the leading innovative, dynamic and knowledge-based economies in the world in the areas where we take precedence. There is a significant focus on research and development in the 2007 budget. The appropriations are proposed to increase by up to 900 million. kr, an increase of close to 6 pst. In addition, we are proposing to increase the capital of the Research and Innovation Fund by DKK 10 billion. In order to highlight business research, the Government proposes to increase the funding of the commercial departments by about 220 million. kr in 2007. Norway is one of the world's largest ports. We manage large seas and resources. The Norwegian marine sector is stretching across a wide area. We make use of both quantitatively, as a seafood producer and supplier, we are leading international maritime administration and have a great impact on the scientific environment. Our administrative responsibility is an important dimension in Norway's role as a sea storm power. All important management decisions are based on ongoing updating of knowledge, and our knowledge is requested internationally. The research institutions are key knowledge providers and administrative precursors. Our marine sector policy shall be based on sustainable resource management, fair resource allocation and commitment to research, innovation and competence. It is an objective for Norway to have an international leading position in marine research and innovation, and the sector is facing a number of knowledge challenges that will require a continued strong public commitment. It is important that the research benefits in the marine sector are maintained, both in terms of administrative and industrial research. The government is therefore proposing a further deletion of marine research in the State budget for 2007. The government has had a significant focus on the north. Marine research is an important part of the Northern Region Strategy of the Government. These areas include the follow-up to the Barents Sea Management Plan, major investment in the International Polar Year and the investigation of new ice-going research vessels. For 2007, it is set to strengthen the budget of the Marine Research Institute in order to follow up and evaluate national salmon fjords and salmon waters. The allocation to the National Institute of Nutrition and Maritime Research is increased to strengthen the work of monitoring and documentation of foreign substances. It is also proposed to allocate 20 million. kr to Norwegian-Indian cooperation on research in animal and fish vaccines. Cooperation facilitates the development and improvement of fish farming in India and also offers a high potential for Norwegian research and pharmaceutical industry. If the appropriations from the Research and Innovation Fund are included, appropriations will only increase by 215 million over the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade. kr. This increased bet will be corrected, inter alia: against space activities, marine research and development and gas savour. Appropriations for space activities increase by a total of 158,6 million. NOK 469,4 million. kr in 2007. Many of the other research appropriations in the budget will be commercially relevant. The Government proposes, among other things: to grant 184 million. kr to Norwegian participation in the new Seventh Framework Programme for research and technological development in the EU, which will be of major importance for business. Finally, I would like to mention an important challenge: it is an objective of Norwegian research policy to increase private funding for research. Access to up-to-date knowledge is becoming an increasingly important competitive factor for businesses. Close dialogue between economic operators and the research community will contribute to nutritional relevance. Here the actors in the research system have an important task. The State shall take responsibility for its part in the development.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-11.ana.ud429e1203	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-11.ana.ud429e1206	Norway is a high-tech country for maritime industries, and we have a lot of knowledge about aquaculture, aquaculture and fisheries. This was also the Council of State within its post. There are great expectations of success, and there is great expectation that Norway will be able to stay at the top of the world. Marine research institutes are increasingly in need of new resources and technologies. How will the Council of State ensure this access now, when the Council of State of Djupedal has put in a ceasefire with regard to research and development?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-11.ana.ud429e1213	As I have just said in my speech, nutrition research is considerably strengthened through the state budget, although one could get the impression of something else after hearing Schmidt's speeches from the interlocutory here. With regard to the Marine Research Institute and other relevant areas of competence, as I said in my speech, the maritime sector and marine sector are among the environments on which we are strongly committed in this government. They will also be further strengthened, as presented in the ownership notification to the State. A separate marine fund will be proposed to develop that industry further. This government feels it is important to see all the instruments together. We are discussing the means of research here, and there we have strengthened our efforts. We will do the same in the other industrial policy areas, so that Norway can continue to be a country to which it is addressed in terms of knowledge of the marine sector, together with other countries around the North Sea and elsewhere in the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-11.ana.ud429e1222	First, I would like to welcome the Council of State to the budget debate of the Committee on Churches, Education, and Research. It is nice to see the Minister of Industry present. Then I must be allowed to correct an obvious misunderstanding. Governments say that research funds are increasing by nearly 900 million. kr in the budget. That's not right. The nominal increase is about 900 million. kr. If you take away the price and pay increase, which you're going to do, you're going to be about Three hundred million. And of these, 519 million is going to be written. the return of the Research Fund — old money, which was invested in last year’s budget. So you're left with negative 159 million. This appropriation is intended to cover the following expenditure: The interesting thing to answer for a Minister of Industry is how it may be that the Government in its two budgets has cut unpaid research efforts at SkattenFUNN, cut off from the SketteFUNN scheme, cut off from nutrient research and cut off from the gift-enhancing schemes – cut that has given a total of fewer incentives to increase the private share of research appropriations.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-11.ana.ud429e1231	If you are allowed to comment on it, I also hope that I am welcome as Minister of Fisheries. Part of my post was actually about it. But it is a reality that nutrition research is increasing significantly in this state budget. For example, during the debate, while I have been here, Norway’s position on technology development has been called for. When we now invest heavily in space research, it is precisely to provide opportunities to develop advanced navigation technologies, such as: linked to the maritime sector. I have mentioned a number of other areas in which direct economic research is increasing. I allow myself a short comment related to the SkattenFUNN scheme, as it has been mentioned. In the election campaign ahead of the now complex collapse, it was claimed that a new government would be a threat to the tax FUNN scheme. The previous state budget and this state budget prove that the Government is continuing the tax FUNN scheme. There has been a small adjustment to the cost accounting criteria in relation to an upper limit of 1850 hours and 500 kroner per year. The main reason for this is that the tax FUNN scheme continues as the instrument it is, also in order to stimulate private research alongside the increased public efforts in research.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-11.ana.ud429e1240	As our neighbouring countries, Norway does not have any really large enterprises that can boost research efforts in the business world. Most enterprises start out as small and medium-sized enterprises. The Christian People's Party believes it is important to give small and medium-sized enterprises good growth conditions in order to develop. In this context, the SkattenFUNN scheme has been a finding. On questions about this, the minister of knowledge only shoots from his hip. Does the Minister for Industry think that the TaxFUNN scheme has failed before it has been evaluated? Why change and tighten up the scheme before the evaluation is carried out on the table? Or is there too much research in small and medium-sized enterprises, so that incentives that increase research efforts need to be tightened up and cut?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-11.ana.ud429e1248	As outlined in the Government’s proposals for the State budget, there are some aspects related to the impact of research efforts and the leading of research expenditure that have been commented on in the State budget. There is a background for small adjustments now – a limit of 1850 hours, which is usually a dry year’s work, and 500 kroner per hour associated with the management of research expenditure. I would characterize that as small adjustments to a scheme that continues despite some claiming that it would be reduced under this government. It is not least because of possible research efforts in small and medium-sized enterprises that the tax FUNN scheme can work positively. But I would also like to point out that the Government in several areas, for example: in the case of wood processing, arrangements have been made by the State to encourage small private enterprises, which necessarily do not have their own research capability, to find systems that enable them to invest in research together. We're going to work on the kind of instruments that we're going to use.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-11.ana.ud429e1255	In the industrial research effort, the Government, in the opinion of the Left, has neglected the strategic institute sector, the science and social sciences, and has not put in what the research communication provided for. At least it's a strategic mispractice to mobilise business. But I still think the worst thing is that I don't recognize myself in the Council's description of the Tax Fund. I have not met one representative of the small and medium-sized enterprises that describes the reality of the Council of State. When you know that you are tightening up both in terms of hourly rates and hours, the description is that you are strangling a system that has been unbureaucratic and insanely good, just to mobilize your spine in Norwegian business. I had actually hoped that the government would look at it, because this happens in the middle of a period of evaluating the scheme. So I don't recognize myself in the description. Does the State Council really believe that the TaxFUNN scheme now presented by the Government is an incentive for small and medium-sized enterprises in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-11.ana.ud429e1264	Yes, of course. The tax FUNN scheme is an incentive for both small and medium-sized enterprises and large enterprises in Norway. It's true that there's an intrusion, as I've said in two previous posts, with an upper limit of 1850 hours and 500 kroner per hour. Of course, someone would say that they would like to have either the crown amount higher or the time-use framework larger for each research year, but I nevertheless believe that the scheme that now remains after the Storting's treatment of the budget is a good incentive for private research. But it takes a lot more than that. It is true, as the representative of Dørum says, that the entire tax FUNN scheme is now being evaluated. Then, of course, all the elements of the scheme will be evaluated, as the representative correctly underlined.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-11.ana.ud429e1273	I would also like to point out that I am pleased that both the Minister for Food and Fisheries is taking part in the budget debate in the area of the KUF. I hope it's not a one-time affair, but that we'll enjoy it later on. When discussing the research report and the objective of 3 pst. of GDP as a research effort in 2010, there is a breakdown of 1 pst. for the public and 2 pst. to the private business. We are now in a situation where private businesses, especially small and medium-sized enterprises, have almost honoured the tax FUNN scheme and said that this is the only system that has been an effective tool for SMEs' research efforts. Then it's necessary, if you're going to be able to achieve the goal of 2 pst. GDP should be a private research effort, in fact, to maintain and strengthen that type of incentive. Åsa Elvik of SV has stood on the platform today and said that she is looking for other ways to increase business research. Why is a tightening of approx. 10 pst. by the TAX FUNN scheme before starting the evaluation?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-11.ana.ud429e1284	As indicated in the Government's draft budget, there are, because of the identified possible adverse effects of the system without the restrictions put in place. It's based on the proposition of the Government. I am one of those who believe that the SkattenFUNN scheme has promoted positive research in private business and in small and medium-sized enterprises. When the representative Elvik has said that, I'm surprised if it doesn't mean that someone is looking for other tools as well. I mentioned one tool – the woodworking programme – which is a typical example of how a person can collect a few dollars in order for a research effort to be jointly undertaken. I think one in addition has to look for that kind of instruments. But then it is part of the reality that the private part of the research actually went down in the period 2003–2005, which is a period in which SkattenFUNN has worked. It's obvious that we need to do more things in addition to the Tax Fund if we're to increase our private research effort.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-11.ana.ud429e1293	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-11.ana.ud429e1298	We are also dealing with two representative proposals today, and since I did not get the time to go into them in my post, I would like to briefly say something about these two now. The government has proposed in the budget to introduce free teaching material for high school students. We agree, and we believe that this is a good measure. However, it is a prerequisite for students to have access to up-to-date learning material at all times. This is particularly important in a globalised world where changes take place quickly. It is therefore of concern when the Municipal Councils at the hearing point out that the Government’s proposal is, in reality, merely a loan scheme. Therefore, the Christian People's Party is asking the Ministry to follow developments closely to ensure that the scheme does not just become a lending scheme with a lot of bureaucracy and risk of little up-to-date material. Christian People's Party has in Document No. The 8-proposal asked the Government to reconsider its approval of the Norwegian school in Mopti County, Mali. It provides an important school offer to children of Norwegian parents working in Mali. The alternative for these children is to go to school either in Ethiopia — which is across the continent of Africa — or to be sent home to Norway, which means that children have to stay away from their parents for a long time and live at boarding school. A few years ago, the mission organisations themselves made a settlement with their own use of boarding schools. One so sadly, several deletes with problems after having been placed at boarding school for several years without contact with their own parents. On this background, I react to the government indirectly forcing them to put this back into use. The Ministry believes that they do not have a legal basis for approving the application. We can get them if they want it. It's about political will. The Ministry also has the opportunity to derogate from the temporary law on early school leave, if there is a willingness to do so. I have to say that in this case I am particularly disappointed with the Center Party. The parliamentary leader of the Central Party has even said in our country that she is disappointed with her own government: «I disagree with such a narrow interpretation of the freezing law. The Mali school is a very special case, and in no way competitive with Norwegian public primary schools.» The Christian People's Party has now given government parties an opportunity not only to express disappointment in the media, but actually to do something about the matter itself. In today's vote we will see how deep the disappointment really is. We ask the Government to reconsider the application and at the same time promote the legislative proposal on exemptions that are needed to achieve this. The community has a responsibility for all Norwegian children and for all Norwegian children to receive good training. It must also apply to children whose parents have chosen to make an effort for the poor of the world through aid and mishap.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-11.ana.ud429e1316	You have to speak in such a debate. After all, it's a happy day for school leaders across the whole country. Some of us have been with some years and over the years have experienced all these fights about the so-called free schoolbooks. At first a little bit of a story: I thought at first that this case came up in the mid-1990s when I went to high school. But after I realized that it was a long time before this matter came up, that the equipment in high school should be free of charge on the basis of a principle that everyone should have equal opportunities. I don't have numbers of how many times over the years I've experienced that there have been actions – reader-letter actions, demonstrations, etc. – to get this in place. Towards the end of the 1990s, several parties took decisions on this, and in 2000 it was the first time that we had put a few kroner in place for this case. Then the Workers' Party made a settlement with the then government – very good! The following year, the government changed, and Trond Giske was able to present the first loan scheme. I'm guessing the funds were $100 million. kr that time. After that little happened. The system was removed after the government change in 2001, despite the fact that we repeatedly held debates, especially among the youth parties of the then government parties, felt that they were in favour of it. The problem was that they had not got through in the mother parties – it was at all quite rattled. Today, as I said, it's a happy day, because we've put in place a scheme in which 373 million is allocated. kr as a start to a escalation in the case of free books – a combination solution that I think is very good. This, I think, we're going to be able to sell out to high school. The problem is that it's a little bit unclear to me how to interpret the opposition proposals of the largest parties. The right is classically bourgeois in the form of need tests, that it should not apply to all, and all of that. It's those who have the worst economy to get it, so it's okay. On the other hand, the proposals of the Progress Party are more interesting. They argue with so-called free school material. Well, free in this context means well, a scholarship or a voucher of about NOK 2600. There are very few high school lines where you get free school material for $2,600. What is also interesting to note in connection with the proposals of the Progress Party – there are actually two approaches – is first of all: what do they do when they have power? The Progress Party took part in the preparation of three out of four State budgets in the previous period. Then there was a tax haven. We didn't hear a word about free learning. The other way to think about it is if this proposal too is in the pile of so-called Document No. Eight proposals, or representative proposals, that we don't see afterwards when, after all, we're going to grant the money. We've seen examples of this in the case of mobile tax, we've seen it in the case of variable petrol prices, we've seen it in the case of cultural cannon – we can't find the money in the alternative budget the following year. What happens next year is still very unclear, and I could imagine getting a description of this from the representatives of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-11.ana.ud429e1335	This is an exciting debate and big bets, and that's good. I would like to add that it is not only on this budget, but also on the municipal budget that is well spent on education in Norway, because money for municipalities is money for school and education. It has happened very well, not least when you reversed the cut to public schools. But then there's one thing, a little thing, but very important to them it's about: the school in Mali. The Minister of Knowledge said no to a handful of Norwegian children who are going to school in Africa and who have one alternative to primary school – one alternative where parents live. The Minister of Knowledge said no, the government parties in Stortinget have said no, and I ask why. The answer can't be that the law prevents them, because the law can do something about, we can do an exception to the law for just these kids. I want to challenge the Minister of Knowledge to take the floor in this Chamber and say why these few kids can't get Norwegian primary school in Mali. It can't be the money, because we're talking about less than one million in a big bet budget. It would be crazy if there were any Norwegian children we couldn't afford to have primary school, so that can't be the money it says on. This school is not in competition with public school, and no one is making money on this. No, it's really about whether they can get this primary school where they live with their parents or whether they have to go to boarding school. Of course, some of the families can go home, but can't it be that the government parties will only have childless munitions or auxiliary workers abroad? I would like to hear a good reason for the answer given, or even better, that, during voting in the Chamber today, it is going to be reversed – it is no shame to turn around – so that the Norwegian school in Mali does not have to be stopped because of a pedigree. I hope the last time you turn around, but at least I have to get a reason.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-11.ana.ud429e1342	I would like to raise a political field that our government has in the pantry, and that is being met in the north with opportunities – I am thinking of our government's Northern Region Strategy. Think, finally, we have a government that doesn't just want to, but actually does something in this area for us who live in that part of the world that has midnight sun in summer and darkness in winter, which is very rich in natural resources on land and in the sea, which have a well-developed infrastructure, but which has been underfunded in several areas of knowledge for a number of years. When the Northern Region Strategy of the Government was presented in Tromsø two weeks ago, there was a great deal of focus on knowledge, north-eastern competence and north-eastern research. At the presentation in Tromsø, four state councils were gathered in one place at the same time, and this has not happened since the Norwegian government had to escape from the Germans in the spring of 1940. The four Councils of State were the Prime Minister, the Minister of Foreign Affairs, the Minister of Municipal Affairs, and not least the Minister of Knowledge, Øystein Djupedal. What does that show? Well, knowledge is one of the four focus areas for future growth and growth in the north. Our knowledge minister has received a space of action in the north that is unique in historical times. Only in 2007 it's 80 million. kr in fresh funding for research in the north, in addition to all the other funds involved in innovation, research and other innovative initiatives in the north. And when we see the climate change we experience around us every day this special autumn, it's time for us to get caught up in this. If I had not been here today, I could have actually sat on the tractor at home on the farm and plucked, harvested or picked stone, which I usually do in the summer and not in the Christmas month. It's quite clear that what happens to the climate needs a very special focus from everyone, and especially from our government. Now it is working within all environments in the north to concrete the space for action given by the Government. Transport, infrastructure, industrial development on land, in the sea and on the pedestal. In particular, this applies to all levels of lifelong learning — from kindergartens to university and research environments. Our government has turned 180 degrees. In the past, the focus was primarily on the south, whereas now it is turning north. That's right. Rolf Jacobsen has said so eloquently: our country is far, and most of it is north. Once again, our government shows that it doesn't just want to do something, but it actually does something too. This is when we have a government that has a heart for the whole country, and will continue to use the whole country.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-11.ana.ud429e1353	We've been through a debate that, in our field, naturally ranges from basic education to church questions. That's what makes this committee so interesting. However, I would like to dwell on some of the things that have emerged. Firstly, part of the Workers' Party's representatives are very concerned that they have now managed to stop the commercialisation of the schools. The representative de Ruiter says that by introducing a new law, you have been able to stop this so-called commercialization. But commercialisation has never taken place, because it has always been in the law of high school that applies, a prohibition on taking dividends. Then it is interesting that the Government states that the provision in terms of dividends in the new law should be exactly the same as the provision in the law that exists today. If the Workers' Party was concerned about stopping the really commercial schools, they should put down a ban on the purely private schools that take 100 pst. parental payment, which may take dividends every day if they wish. They had then taken a step to stop the so-called commercialisation. Secondly, it is interesting that the representatives of the government parties consistently refuse to talk about what is actually Norwegian research on fresh oils in Norway. They only rely on Denmark, Sweden and other countries, when we now have good and solid research from Norwegian research institutions that says that no segregation effect has been demonstrated in Norwegian hospitals. On the other hand, it has been shown that they often have better learning outcomes and more adapted training than in public schools. Odd Nordstoga says that whoever uses big words often has a lot to compensate for. I think that may be a sort of review theme for this debate too. If we ignore the legacy that this government has received from the previous government, which is about funds for reading and writing training for adults, the Research Fund, continuing education and the Knowledge promise, what is the phase? Well, the fasitite is largely cut across the whole line of research and higher education, to student welfare, to unpaid research effort, to SkattenFUNN and to universities and colleges, and no new scholarship holders. It's the fasitite SV, the Workers' Party and the Center Party give their voters when they first get power. It's no wonder it was exciting for the three parties to be in opposition, as long as they in position do nothing but the true opposite of what the voters promised in the election campaign, what they talked about in the government statement, and what they've told the voters in retrospect that they're going to do. It is not accidental that only the representatives of the government parties in the hall and in the government apparatus believe in the promises that the government is now making. Anyone else who has something important to say in the field of research and higher education is deeply upset by the government's budget proposals. I think that's good reason to be.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-11.ana.ud429e1367	There are a few things in the setting that I had not expected would be very central in the debate, but which I still hope the department will look a little bit on. The 20 pst requirement. The first qualification in nursing training poses major challenges for the sector. Firstly, not all competences are available and the requirement therefore creates an unfortunate competition between the institutions. Secondly – and there is a more general issue, which I thought the department might have followed up after the interpellation debate that was in the Stortinget in ours – the question of whether nursing training is served with such a tough skill requirement at all colleges. The Ministry should have addressed this with an assessment of whether the requirement should apply to all schools, or whether the entire system would have served to ensure that some colleges develop a research profile, while others are allowed to develop their practice orientation and instead lean against the research skills of others when needed. I hope the department will take these recordings and come back with a discussion on the objectives and instruments in this area. The entire opposition has also agreed that the College Foundation in Kongsvinger should be included in the same budget as the Study Centre in Finnsnes. The university foundation and the study centre are two almost identical institutions, and the development and competence situation in the district of Glamdal is such that it should be given special interest and attention. A focus on competence is needed to speed up the region. This is not about money, because the University Foundation receives money through the Hedmark University, but it is about giving the same status as a similar institution elsewhere. So a little bit to the representative who was involved with this with free school material in relation to needs-tested scholarships. Yes, it actually takes the right not to destroy the subject book production and the quality of teaching materials, by implementing a grossly underfunded reform of free school material. We have received clear signals in the consultation round that the reform is grossly underfunded and will in practice become a lending mechanism. In this way, you can risk preventing students from actually getting books as a real work tool. I think that maybe social democracy should take seriously the fact that one is driving more and more distribution from middle to middle class. It actually costs money, too. One could have strengthened the grant scheme, as suggested by the Right. Then you hit the group that actually needs it, and you don't destroy the textbook market.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-11.ana.ud429e1380	I listened with great interest to the Minister of Knowledge's contributions, and I just have to note that he abused his first chance here in the Stortinge to show that the Government is serious about his Northern Territory strategy. The matter referred to as the Government's strategic main interest, where knowledge is to play a key role, was quite perceptively not mentioned in one single word. After hearing my associate Ole-Anton Tegen from Troms, I actually wonder if we live in the same county. At least we don't hear the same thing. There is full agreement between the Bondevik II government and today's government on the importance of knowledge as a catalyst for triggering the great potential in the north. On the other hand, there is a frightening disagreement as to what appropriations are needed to trigger good forces in the knowledge environments in order to translate opportunities into new and attractive jobs in northern Norway. In a chronicle in North Light last Saturday, Councillor Djupedal wrote: ‘Our best environments across the country need to be mobilised to meet the knowledge challenges facing us in the north. This must be done in interaction with international partners and with business. However, the knowledge institutions in the north have a special responsibility for the development of their neighbourhoods.» The Minister of Knowledge also stresses the need for more entrepreneurial and technological education in the north and that he wants to stimulate this. Worse "missing link" you should look for a long time. As the irony of fate, the red-green budget proposal was beaten through the same week as the government presented its Northern Territory strategy. The government says it will bet in the north, but provides significant cuts also to the knowledge institutions in the north. The University of Tromsø has to deal with $30 million. In 2007 and higher education institutions in the north, often with small and vulnerable disciplines, clearly experience a worsening of development opportunities. Research more, says the Government, but assigns zero new scholarship positions and lowers its research ambitions in 2007. The consequences are obvious: less money means fewer opportunities to further develop the tourism industry, fisheries and aquaculture, Arctic agriculture and oil/gas industries. Central research environments in the north have done the homework. They have snowcrawled projects and concluded agreements with industry and Russian partners, and they cannot believe that the Government is now failing them. The government has a credibility problem. We are witnessing a red-green 2007 budget on a clear collision course with decisive assumptions in the Northern Region Strategy. It is impossible to understand how the Minister of Knowledge believes it is necessary to be able to build up new industrial and technological education in the north – actually for less money. It is also not possible to understand how research communities can develop new projects, when institutions lack economic muscles to drive such applications. I really want to challenge Djupedal to answer two questions today: Why didn't the Government of the District of Germany protect the knowledge institutions in 2007 about knowledge to be naved in the Northern Region Strategy? Can the Council explain how knowledge institutions can drive budget cuts?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-11.ana.ud429e1402	I have had the pleasure of sitting and listening to the debate on TV and have seen again how the Progress Party, with freeness of speech, struggles with its money – there will be a lot more money just to be heard. Then there's more money for everything, just put a note on it from Oslo and mistrust the local sense. It surprises me a little bit that the party that says they're for the most people, has no faith that you've also known locally. Let's just take a little look at last year when the government decided to spend NOK 5.7 billion more on the municipal sector. What has happened to those funds? We can go into the statistics and look at what the SSB is saying. When we dealt with the municipal bill in ours, the SSB said we used 6.5 pst. more in primary school in the first six months of the year than in the last six months of last year, i.e. a growth of 6.5 pst. in the case of resource use entering primary school. We used 7.9 pst. more to kindergarten, school and care, i.e. the basic welfare services provided by the municipality. So it's been a real growth. It can be seen that local local politicians, the local sense, most people, have given priority to school, have given priority to caring, and have also given priority to childcare, with a very good bet from here. After that, the Government has further increased the appropriations through the growth of tax revenue, which they have retained for the municipalities. So they've grown $9.5 billion this year. So when we're going to set up the final calculation, we'll see that there's been an even stronger growth for school, care, kindergartens and basic welfare services, thanks to the great and strong promise. Let's look at the draft budget for the Progress Party next year. It says in their budget proposal that they should earmark NOK 2 billion for the care of the elderly, and they should earmark SEK 600 million. DKK to primary and 200 million. kr to secondary school. Then you see what kind of needs there are in high school. After all, the county council has the biggest challenges in the year to come, because of the large growth in the number of students, and so little money is spent on the group that needs the most. Even if you eye marks, there won't be any more money when the total pot gets smaller. The counties, who are going to run secondary schools, will receive a lot less money with the arrangement of the Advance Party than with the arrangement of the Government, even though the Advance Party earmarks a few dollars for higher education. The individual student will get worse out, will get a worse offer. It is the professional who will have problems, and it is the district schools that will have problems. It's not just useful to say that as long as you're ringing, there'll be more money, when the pot is smaller. I also think it's a little interesting to hear the committee leader who's so fantastically proud of what they're proposing on the research page. But she doesn't mention in a word the scheme they have for the community economy – jumps smoothly over it. Although it is primary and secondary schools that are the basic plan throughout the Norwegian education system, the Right Representative does not mention it with a word in his summary, but only hacks at the fact that they have suggested more in their alternative scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-11.ana.ud429e1413	Some short notes. Firstly, with regard to the proposal on school in Mali, the Left is voting for it. For us, it is a natural continuation of the position we had when we were engaged in the ‘freezing law’, where we thought for ourselves that it was an opening in relation to the government parties. In the case of school materials, we do not vote in favour of the proposals of the Progress Party. We have our own proposal in the budget, and we note that what the Government has now presented becomes free in the sense that it becomes a lending mechanism, which is perceived by everyone as the worst of all possible arrangements, both pedagogical and otherwise. Our option is reflected in the financial situation, and we prefer to keep the educational freedom, that what you get is proper, but we reinforce the proven scholarship. The background for this is very simple: we've prioritised our heads so that we don't build this further, with the hundreds of millions needed, because the money we've put on higher education and research. Here we also come to the point: within the same duality framework as the government parties, it is entirely possible to prioritise in a completely different way. Indeed, it is fully possible to give priority to ensuring higher education. In fact, it is possible to give priority to ensuring research. But it's clear that then you have to choose something else. The whole point of my previous statement is that the difference between the Left's budget and the government's budget is that there is no willingness or ability to prioritise in these areas. Now I've heard two councillors. First, I heard State Council Djupedal in a previous round here in the hall talking about a tightening of the Tax Fund in order to prevent some possible abuse, as Dag Terje Andersen was inside, to do something that was proven. Then I start to wonder what has been shown. What's a suspected abuse? There are, of course, all management systems. Is this really the background to a government team that has so little confidence in people who are entrepreneurs and run small and medium-sized enterprises? Is the truth that you're so used to meeting directors and leaders of big organizations that the laborers, even though the laborers can now also have an academic degree, don't you see? Or has it simply not been taken into account that this is a mechanism based on the advance of small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) taking on a liquidity balance but still investing? Is it true that you simply do not believe that this is an unbureaucratic system? Is it true that the reports of Abelia, ICT Norway, Norwegian industry and the NHO are simply unbelievable? I'm approaching the point that I think the government is simply at a cultural breakup. There's a political distinction between the Left, which thinks it's honorable to create a job for itself and others and to be met with confidence in that area, and a government that I think in many ways is concerned with governing. And let me bring it along -- not least after hearing the government's support player, Mrs. Valla, act in a way that almost makes the government council seem pale, you can see that the governance lever is significant as an impulse in itself in the sitting government.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-11.ana.ud429e1424	I would first be bold enough to ask the Council of State to answer the questions that the representative Dørum has just asked, because there are questions that are most relevant to the matter we are dealing with. Free school books are an important topic in this context, and it is not so strange because the Progress Party has promoted its proposal for a book and material card scheme for all high school students. We are positive that the government now wants to spend some money giving students in high school free school material. The only problem is that this scheme that the Government imposes excludes two thirds of high school students for the autumn. So there are two thirds of the students who won't get any benefit from this investment at all. It seems that the Progress Party is very remarkable. It would make much more sense for the government parties to vote in favour of the proposals of the Progress Party, which means that all students get free school material in high school from the fall of. In addition, care will be taken to ensure that students are able to choose their school materials freely. One will escape a bureaucratic county level which will push down on the heads of the students what the teaching material of the individual school or county community thinks is right, instead of allowing the students to choose it for themselves. So I think it's a little strange when the representative de Ruiter is standing up here and saying that the Progress Party has granted ‘a little money’ to such a system. So the progress party grants three times as much as this government does, so that all the students will be included in the scheme. I also want to repeat to the representative of the Battle of Vedum that the Progress Party does not attack the local people-elected wit. But we know that there are tough priorities locally. There are many issues that can be more important locally than both care and school. We want to give a direction of governance that I also said in my article earlier today, which clearly says that here it is to bet on care and school. That is why we believe that an earring is better than a frame allocation. The Progress Party primarily wants a single-price funding scheme that allows students to have the right to a school place financed directly to the municipalities regardless of the framework. In addition, I could imagine challenging the Council of State to say a few words about the research effort, which actually ends up with a small, flat-screen, purely admissibility, especially taking into account the committee leader's calculation, which shows that the budget has a budget of 159 million. kr, if someone takes out what comes from the Research Fund. Could it not be that the Government proposes that the Research Fund contribute more to be deducted from the ordinary budget allocation?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-11.ana.ud429e1435	The President is now paying particular attention to the fact that the representative Tegen is in the Chamber. The representative Ole-Anton Teggen has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-11.ana.ud429e1440	I have to be a little personal. I find it very disappointing when capable politicians from the Right, such as Ine Marie Eriksen Soreide and Elisabeth Aspaker, can present both government policy and budget proposals as they do. When Eriksen Soreide manufactures the budget for colleges and universities almost as if it's a rage, and when Elisabeth Aspaker almost ridicules the government's Northern Region bet, it's not the best starting point for us to find the best solutions together. They've just had their people in the government offices – just a year ago. What happened in the years they had the government? At least we felt as local politicians and state politicians that we had a damp hand around our shoulders, while today, as local politicians and state politicians, we feel that we have a government that sees us every day.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-11.ana.ud429e1447	Let me answer some of the challenges that have arisen in the debate, but let me first answer what concerns research. If you go to the NIFU STEP review of how research activity has been in the country over the last few years, you will see that in 2007, in the budget we have now submitted, it is 2.5 pst. increase. In our previous budget, it was 6.7 pst. The year before, that's the right last budget before they had to go off, it was minus 2.3 pst. The year before, it was 6.8 p.m., but it included the entire return of the funds that the opposition then placed in the Research Fund, which the government parties were opposed to. The year before there was an increase of 0.6 pst. This is the actual number. This debate may give the impression that the last four years were Nirvana for Norwegian research, which they were not. The speech of the numbers is undeniable in relation to what this has been like. That means that the debate, the rhetoric and the height of this, I allow myself to say it, is out of proportion to the reality. In the budget currently under consideration in the Storting, if it goes through, we spend over DKK 16.3 billion on public budgets for research. We spend 21 billion on colleges and universities in next year's budget. It is a significant economic activity in this sector. This sector is important, and so is our government. In the case of the North Region bet, which several have been involved, I have to say that it is also difficult to see the realities in relation to the use of words. The previous government put forward a north-area effort that was continually slaughtered by all the trade unions, not least in North Norway. This plan receives a consistently good shot from everyone, except the Right Party and the Advance Party. The reason for that is that there's a wide bet, not least on knowledge, which is the hub itself, as we describe it, in the North Region bet. We'll come back to Stortinget, of course, with a systematic bet in the north. We've done that over the year we've been sitting here, and we'll keep doing that. It's just as the representative Tegen said, that pointed out to Rolf Jacobsen, "It's a long way from this country. Most of it is north." I have to say that I had the pleasure of being present at the Polar Institute when we presented this for a full hall. There was a great deal of satisfaction among all those present. Also when summing up the press afterwards, it was a great deal of satisfaction. That the Right is dissatisfied with this, I understand, because they had the chance in the previous period to make a North Area bet that had substance, but they didn't. That is why I understand that they are now choosing to attack the Government instead. When it comes to Mali school, we don't have a law firm to approve it. The matter has gone to the directorate via us. We don't have anything against this school. I encourage the school, when we now have a new private school law – it is being consulted and will be presented to the Stortinget during the spring – to apply again. That way they'll be able to get, I think, a permanent place. We don't have a house of praise. It is not up to a state council of its own discretion to grant a grant. But as Stortinget is aware, there were two schools that were specifically mentioned, I think it was in the revised national budget. It was a school in Ethiopia and a school in Kenya, which also didn't find a place of praise. Then we chose, as the Stortinget is familiar with, to make a special donation, by going around the law of high school, to ensure that these were funded. We did that, of course, in agreement with the Storting, but this school in Mali we don't have a place of praise to support.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-11.ana.ud429e1464	It was the intervention of the representative, Gundersen, that made me ask for the floor in this matter. This is a grant to the Royal College Foundation in Kongsvinger. I was one of the initiators of it at the end of the 1980s. I don't know how many trips I've been in the department with that case, but I know at least that of the state councils who have been willing to accept this case, Gudmund Hernes and Jon Lilletun have been very positive. Now I must admit that I do not remember how the Council of State Giske was in relation to this matter, but I think we got there too. What has been amazing about this matter since the new government arrived is that for the first time there have ever been appropriations for the University Foundation in the budget before it was submitted. It's never happened before. But what was remarkable in the previous period, when the Right sat with the Council of State, was that there was no interest in this matter and no money to be collected, even after the budget had been provided. That's why I'm glad that Right and Gunnar Gunnarsen are now beginning to see the importance of decentralised higher education, and perhaps especially the one that's in South Hedmark, because there's the level of education, despite the big investment, still weak. I think it's getting a little late to be a spokesperson for a matter that one's own minister in the last period opposed, and the Council of State that sits today is the only one who has put money into the budget in advance for this. He is aware that this is a very important project. Then we're going to work on it. I hope that the Right – to put it this way – will stick to its reversal of this case and be involved in the fight for better funding arrangements for decentralised higher education in general, because it is an incredibly important matter. But I want some honesty in these matters, because you have a story that I think you should say that you were not until those degrees were «high and dark» in a case where you have never before crossed two sticks to get this done.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-11.ana.ud429e1475	Ine Marie Eriksen Soreide said that private schools in Norway contribute little to differences between people. This is because we in Norway have now had a relatively moderate private school law. It was just the big release we saw in the last government period, which would have contributed to much more private schools, and which would certainly have increased the social differences in Norway. We've seen that in Sweden. We've also seen that in Denmark. A Danish scientist says that there is no higher level in private schools. She also says that when we get a warped social and ethnic composition in school, the professional level falls for everyone, both for students from resource-intensive and resource-depleted families. It's e.g. the case of some Copenhagen public schools. We see there that the meeting places for people who are different are being reduced. Here's the big difference between the right-hand side and the left-hand side of Norwegian politics. We will take care of the quality of the public general school. That's why we're betting the money here. There's a big difference between the money today's school has to go with now, compared to what was the case when the previous government set. Then there were schools that had huge financial problems, but now we see that the arrows are pointing up. The bottom was reached under the previous government. Then the Progress Party has suddenly received a touching care for the school material in secondary schools. Anders Anundsen has been involved in youth policy and has been fighting hard for years against free school books. Yes, the Progress Party made a budget settlement, like the first one they did with the previous government, which helped the schools sell the school books that had already been purchased. I believe that we can agree with the middle parties in this matter. We agreed on the 2000 budget agreement to establish a free learning system. The party of progress has never lifted a finger for free learning material. It's only after we've been fighting for this for years that they're coming crawling after.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-11.ana.ud429e1484	What is common when someone does something good is, of course, that one's political opponents try to misplace and get the attention away from it. I think it's important to stress that what we've started in relation to free upper secondary education is incredibly positive, and it was incredibly positive. There are very few who are in doubt about who it is that has fought out the arrangements that we are now gradually getting. It'll be a stepping-up plan. We can't do everything this year or next year, but we can do a lot. We're going to step this up to everybody in a three-year period. It is also stated in the Soria Moria Declaration. So the representative Anundsen said that the students have been promised school material for years. Yeah, they've got it. We're the ones who promised them. But every time we've tried to introduce this, it's torpedoed. The Progress Party has been involved in torpedoing the scheme. Yes, the Progress Party has even been one of the main opponents of such a system. Then, of course, it is convenient at the national meeting before a decision is made to adopt such a scheme, when it is seen to be popular among young people, and then one might attract some youth voters. In my opinion, this is a tactical manoeuvre from the Progress Party and not a real policy. And then we get to what's the nucleus. That's not what you say, but actually what you do in politics, that's what it's all about. That's what they measure. When the Progress Party deals with billions also in next year's budget, I become somewhat uncertain about what to take seriously, and what not to take seriously. The question that all the students, at least in high school, should ask themselves when they know the story, is: Can we trust what the Progress Party says? Can we trust that if they come to power, this is an area they will prioritise? Or will they opt it out, as they have done in budgetary conciliation earlier? I think, unfortunately, that the answer is the last one.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-11.ana.ud429e1496	I note with great interest that it is still not possible to get the representatives of the Workers' Party to deal with two fresh Norwegian research reports on the conditions of Norwegian incubators under the law of free school adopted by the previous bigges. So that's the law that allows non-religious and educational alternative schools to start. It is interesting to note that the variation in student background that Huitfeldt's representative calls for is found in the schools in Oslo. Take a trip to the boarding schools around Oslo, travel to the Montessori school at Hamar, travel to a school in Tromsø, and you'll see exactly the same picture: there's a great variation in the background of the students, and there's a great variation in the kind of income and education the parents have, and the interesting thing is that parents to the high school children state just more unlike the student background as their main wish for why they choose free school for their children. That's the reality out in School-Norway, and the Workers' Party's representatives should take a look at it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-11.ana.ud429e1503	The scheduled time for the morning meeting is late. The meeting will now be cancelled, and a new meeting will be scheduled at 2.30 p.m. 18th@item: inlistbox
