ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-lower.ana.ud594e73	There is no agenda for the debate. 34 and supplementary agenda No Thirty-five. The President will propose that Mr Odelstinget deal with the supplementary agenda before the ordinary agenda. . No objections to this proposal have been raised and it is deemed to have been adopted. The matters listed on the supplementary agenda have not been covered by the regulatory period, i.e.: 48 hours. On the basis of Section 32 of the Rules of Procedure, the President will propose that the Odelstinget should nevertheless deal with these matters now. – No objections have been raised to the President’s proposal and it is deemed to have been adopted. We will then start with the consideration of matters on the supplementary agenda, No. Thirty-five.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-lower.ana.ud594e91	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 388]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-lower.ana.ud594e107	No one has asked for the floor. Then we go back to the ordinary agenda, No. Thirty-four. [[Footing, see page 388]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-lower.ana.ud594e125	Of all the cases dealt with by the Justice Committee in its scope, there are no issues that have generated as many requests as issues of Santa Claus issues. At least that's my impression after the eight months I've been to Stortinget. It may not be so strange when you know that almost a million people are affected that this law, and that in addition, the law is complex and has a number of areas that create uncertainties about people's most important economic well-being, namely housing. What the Government specifically proposes in this proposition is a follow-up to the Soria Moria Declaration. It is no secret that the three government parties have had a different view on this matter, but they have now come to an agreement on what has been negotiated in the Soria Moria Declaration. It is stated that an instruction is to be made requiring state-run funds and government properties to grant redemption rights every two years, to 30 times the consumer-priced original rental. This instruction, which is now being worked on, will be followed up by the Ministry of Renewal and Administration. The next three points of the Soria Moria statement are included in this proposition. The consequence of that is that we change the law, so that homeowners get redemption every two years, as opposed to every ten years, as today. We say you don't get the right to redeem cabins in general government, and that for leisure property related to agriculture, you don't get the right to redeem where the property income is more than 5 pst. the net income of the farm. The proposed amendment will strengthen the rights of parties, but the proposal is also based on the special need to protect the interests of agriculture. In this country, more than 350,000 people are partying the plot on which their house stands. For more than 250,000 of these, the right of use of the dwelling is theirs, while the ownership of the plot where they have their house is on the hands of others. This creates conflicts and great uncertainty. It is of little use to use this debate to discuss the snow that fell last year, but I have to mention the problems that arose when the previous government, with the support of the Progress Party, introduced the system of market regulation of party fees. This led many to experience a formidable increase in the fastening charges, and it created a difficult situation for many. In the worst cases I have learned about an increased fee, the fee went up from a few thousand to over thirty thousand kroner in one year. For some minimum pensioners, this increase was so dramatic that they felt they had to sell or move from the farm. For those who party, the dwelling or cabin is felt as a significant asset of well-being. Social considerations and the desire for consumer protection also for such key goods require rules aimed at protecting the interests of parties. The main proposal now, which provides for the possibility of redemption every two years, is a proper and important step towards ensuring the rights of ordinary people in relation to owner-occupied housing. The Government also proposes to introduce a right of withdrawal, where, within four weeks of the price being fixed, the party that has demanded redemption may not accept the offer of redemption. In such a case, the attachment must bear the financial losses of the non-proprietary party associated with the claim if the right of withdrawal is exercised. We say that the government public opinion exception should also apply to Finnmark's property. These cabins also do not currently have the right of redemption, and thus do not in fact change their status. There are also some procedural changes, on which there was a broad consensus among the Hearing Officers. In the last four years, the working party has already had an impact on the right of redemption, the right to extend and the regulation of consumer prices for fixed rentals in the future. We believe that important steps are being taken to improve the conditions of our housekeepers – the Santa Clauss – now. Finally, I would like to thank the opposition for being constructive and disciplined during the committee's proceedings on this matter. We had short deadlines to get this law change in place before the end of the session.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-lower.ana.ud594e153	The last time this matter was debated, in the previous period, the debate lasted a long time per night. Today it's the first thing, so we'll be done before. As the rapporteur said, there have probably been a lot of feelings inside the picture, and everyone has their opinion and perception of the Santa Claus Act. The party of progress is no exception. We've been accused of being winged, but we're not in the treatment that we're going to have today. For the Progress Party, private ownership and the principle of contractual freedom are important. These two principles are fundamental in a democratic society. Today, there is increasing intervention and erosion of the fundamental principles of the right to property and freedom of contract. These principles are important for the Progress Party. They were important at the time of last treatment, and they are also important in today’s treatment. Landfill is an agreement between two parties for the rental of a land over a longer period of time. For the Advancement Party, it was then – and it is today – important to get a view from the Supreme Court. The Party strongly doubts that the real estate distribution is without further doubt compatible with the principles and provisions on which the Constitution is based. That's why it's a shame that the majority doesn't see that it would have been wise to get the opinion from the Supreme Court. The majority in Stortinget adopted a new law on the fastening of land during the previous period. Today, we are going to deal with some changes based on the Government's political platform, the Soria Moria Declaration. The Government proposes changes to the Law on Landfill which strengthens the rights of landowners, but it also protects the interests of agriculture. Based on how high some in this room went in their election campaign, one sees that there have been tough negotiations on the law on Santa Claus. Based on the fact that the farmers are now not going to sell their plots to buyers, one might well say that the centre party is the winner here, even though the Bond team is clearly opposed to the right of withdrawal that the party gets. One could certainly say very much in this case, and one could go into each point, but I shall limit myself to again saying that the Progress Party places private ownership high and will vote against the changes in the law and the law as a whole. I would like, on behalf of the Progress Party, to address our proposal, which is referred to in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-lower.ana.ud594e170	The representative Solvency Horne has taken up the suggestion she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-lower.ana.ud594e175	The party of progress has for some time relaunched its new slogan: for most people. What I'm asking is what the Progress Party really means by that. The reason why I'm wondering about it is that they agreed to introduce excesses on the blue prescription for pensioners, they were part of the unemployment allowance, and now they won't give 20 pst. by our residents a safer everyday life by enabling them to own the land on which their house stands. The question is therefore: What does the Progress Party mean by the ‘most people’?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-lower.ana.ud594e180	The party is the party for most people. Today, we are dealing with the Law on Landfills, and the most important thing for us in this case is private ownership. That's the one that comes highest, and that's why we're going to vote against this law.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-lower.ana.ud594e185	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-lower.ana.ud594e188	The case rapporteur did not want to talk about the snow that fell last year, but was quite eager to talk about the one that fell in the past, as far as I got it with me. In any case, the state-witness or historian who is to write about the origin, practice and not least political processes of the feast has a big task ahead of him. The Law on Santa Claus has been dealt with several times, and in government positions most of the parties have identified the challenges associated with trying to coordinate conflicting interests and views. In general, the current government is also continuing the compromise reached in 2004, with a few exceptions — some necessary procedural clarifications, to which the Right joins, and a further guarantee of the income of agriculture, as well as a few regulatory changes that we consider to be the wrong side of the mid-line drawn in 2004. The starting point for the Right is that an agreement on land fasting is an agreement between two parties and it is important to facilitate the maintenance of relevant considerations in such a voluntary conclusion. In the previous revision, the Right was concerned that the day-to-day law on land provided a rash that could lead to unfairness and unnecessary insecurity for some. It was corrected as well. The fixtures at the time of the amendment of the law were perceived to be permanently redisposable by the attachment’s construction of land and significant investments in houses on the site. But on the landowner's side, the Storting was also concerned about getting a development that took into account that there were different types of landowners. More people had been given more professional property management, as well as the agricultural industry, which was more traditionally sedentary. The compromise is essentially firm, but I will make a few comments on the points where the Right does not want to support the Government's proposal. The obligation to redeem every two years combined with a withdrawal period rule may result in an imbalance in the contractual relationship. The 10-year intervals were set as a result of an overall assessment of the considerations on both sides and were found to provide the best overall solution in 2004. The right does not consider changing this rule in such a short time afterwards. It is important to emphasise social considerations, but it also applies to part of the landowners. A redemption case is a demanding process that can involve both high legal costs and not least many hours of work and lost night sleep. Many of the landowners are older people with poor health, and if parties after a long and heavy process are also allowed to repent if he thinks the price is too high, this could be detrimental to landowners. If parties can start the same process after two years, some recordings have come to me that this can lead to an increase in the level of conflict. Such a rule could lead to further proceedings, multiple disputes and the need for legal assistance. This proposal has a majority, but I ask you again that the government parties at least consider allocating to the courts, other discretionary powers, the information system or the municipalities the means to meet the likely cost increases that could result from this. The government is also following up on making exceptions to the law itself, by not requiring the redemption of land in general government. The reason for this shall be the need for revenue to carry out tasks such as running, etc. This was one of the most important points of conflict in the past, and it is something special that the state proposes different rules for itself than for private landowners, all the time that one also went very high on the track in terms of having an unconditional right of redemption. A lot of people will probably feel that this is a good enough law for private landowners, but not for the state, and that public property seems to be worth more than private property. We are aware that the property income from the general government does not belong directly to the state treasury, but goes to the mountain government. For private landowners, the income from redeemed land will be replaced by the alternative returns that can be achieved when the redemption sum is invested in something else. However, the short version is that the return is not sufficient for the state’s own part, while it should be kept private. It can create a distortion of the land development market, and it creates a unique market for itself. For many, it is a good solution to land, as it does not require large cash outlays when setting up a dwelling or a leisure dwelling, but in such a situation, many will be able to perceive the country as a more secure fortress than a private landowner, which can contribute to competitive distortions in a future property development market. As mentioned at the outset, the Right is involved in supporting the strengthening of the position of agriculture, and I refer to both majority comments and my own specific comments. In conclusion, I note that the majority now, in the last few years, are in favour of giving more leadership to Finnmark's property than the majority of the majority of Finnmark's assets did when it was decided to set up it. This gives reason to ask what forms the closer background of what must be said to be a reverse operation on the part of the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-lower.ana.ud594e209	It's going to be line change. The President will propose that the replacement of lines in this case be limited to three lines after each post, even if someone has intended to take a line at the Council of State. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-lower.ana.ud594e214	In the Committee's comments, the Right writes in a special note that they do not support the Government's proposal to extend the exercise of the right of redemption, because it would result in a contractual imbalance. On page 4, right writes: ‘These members point out that every two years, combined with a withdrawal period rule, the obligation to redeem may result in an imbalance in the contractual relationship.’;» Was there the same assessment of the importance of avoiding an imbalance in the contractual relationship on the basis that, when they were in government, the Right introduced the system of market regulation of party ownership?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-lower.ana.ud594e226	The right is of the opinion that we found a good balance initially in the 2004 agreement. So in the case of the two-year rule, we're opening up alternative transitional arrangements instead, and we're in on it. It should also have been brought with the representative Bjørnflaten. Otherwise, I find it interesting to see what Knut Storberget said in the Newspaper on 15 July 2005: ‘The working party will wind up the unsocial Santa Claus system and propose a ban on future party contracts.’ It was a couple of months before you got into government position. Then you come here, with a high cigarette lead, and you decide to push on that we have an unsocial policy, an unsocial attitude, by standing on the equation that was balanced in 2004. I note that the majority parties have moved a few steps forward and that this balance is now distorted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-lower.ana.ud594e234	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-lower.ana.ud594e237	Anyone who wants to study the noble art of the compromise can definitely take a look at the Santa Claus Act and its history during the last three years. On the part of the Christian People's Party, to the extent that the compromise reached last year, which the then Minister of Justice and Justice got into port, in our opinion in a good way, is still standing. It is probably also the main conclusion in relation to the position we are currently dealing with, so I will limit myself to a few comments. The first concerns the proposal to grant redemption rights for parties every two years when one has had 30 years of fasting. We see this proposal as a compromise between the Centre Party and the Labour Party. The Workers' Party took this against the Centerpartie in the case of agricultural property. On the part of the Christian People's Party, we do not support the proposal for the right of redemption every two years. We actually think it can create so much anxiety and imbalance in the relationship between parties and landowners that the compromise that came last year stands by getting redemption every ten years. On the other hand, we actually support the Government's proposal to grant a right of withdrawal to fasteners after the redemption sum is finally fixed. These two positions in combination seem to give us a good balance between fasteners and landowners. Then the Government proposes that the right of redemption for fittings in public buildings should also apply to the attachment of land to recreational buildings in public places. It's a proposal we have a little bit of trouble understanding why you're going into it. Partying in the public domain is basically point-fixed. Today, attachment contracts give about the same restriction on the use that the owner will make, so it should have no meaning for grazing, fencing, etc. In addition, mountain governments will be provided with additional funds by redemption, and this may provide them with a better opportunity than today to get their tasks done. The last point is the proposal to reduce the percentage to 5 pst. if the fixed income belongs to an agricultural property. We're on what was the compromise last year, on 10 p.m., and I'm also counting on case rapporteur Breen, when he's talking about giving a redemption right "to most people", to admit that at this point the redemption right "to most people" does not apply. Here, a compromise has been reached that the Central Party has probably had its hand on.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-lower.ana.ud594e250	It is a well-known case that the Centre Party voted against the amendments to the Law on Santa Claus adopted in June 2004. We thought it was wrong to introduce a right of redemption for parties who intervened in the freedom of contract of private parties. We also believed that the right of redemption was a serious attack on ownership, and that there was a risk that large values, in particular relating to cabins, were transferred from traders and communities in District Norway to cabin owners in central districts. However, a broad majority of large numbers adopted a comprehensive right of redemption for land fasteners at that time. In the Centre Party, we are therefore pleased that some of the most unfortunate outcomes of the 2004 legislative changes, which have particularly affected local communities in Building Norway, are now being corrected. There has been a strong tradition of maintaining the general government as a whole. In general, there are extensive rights of use. These rights of use belong to the countryside and local farms, and they form an important part of the basis of nutrition in those areas. The sale and establishment of self-owned units in the general public creates problems for the rights of use and other important interests in the areas. The purpose of the reindeer industry also speaks in many areas towards a breakdown of such properties. In fact, today's property income from cabins in the general government is an important source of income for local mountain governments, and it is income used for the benefit of the community. Raising sites, fishing grounds, information boards, maps, clearing of paths and support for steel roads are examples of measures for which these revenues are used. Any loss of the property income would result in much of that activity not being possible to continue. The fixed fees in the general government have been low. This is not where we have had the unreasonable rental increases that have caused problems for the parties. It is therefore an important and correct change that we are now making by reintroducing the exemption for leisure homes in public opinion. Cabins that have been attached for a short time have also been an important additional income for many farms. By attaching the cabins instead of selling them, the holder has wanted to secure long-term and long-term income to the farm, which may also benefit future generations of users. The chances of continuing to have the farm as a way of life are increasing when one has fixed incomes as well as traditional farming. The 2004 amendment provided for a derogation from the right to redeem cabins belonging to an agricultural property. The limit was then set to 10 pst. the income from the fixed income. The government will now amend the regulation to change the requirement to relate to agricultural incomes with 5 pst. or more of the income from fast offices. On the part of the Centre Party, we would like to point out that this is a good political compromise that creates a better opportunity for long-term industrial development, so that a land-based land-use facility can continue to generate income and development opportunities for agricultural and land-use property in the districts.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-lower.ana.ud594e263	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-lower.ana.ud594e266	For the centre party, the last processing was property rights and contractual freedom that were sacred. ‘A bonding relationship is a tenancy relationship’, said Marit Arnstad in his post at the time. In the consultation with the Norwegian Bond Team, they say that they oppose the imposition of a right of withdrawal after the redemption sum has been finally fixed. I wonder how the Central Party will manage to live with such a compromise that they have now reached?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-lower.ana.ud594e271	As with all political compromises, it is that a both must give and take, and so it is in this case as well. The centre party has provided for significant and significant changes in other areas. I mentioned in my post that it is both about the situation in the general government opinion and not least about the exemption for the redemption of agricultural property on income of 5 pst. or more. We feel that it has been very important to have this implemented. As far as the right of withdrawal is concerned, we believe that it is possible to live with it, even if you have had strong counter-representations in the past. We believe it is that there are people with sincere intentions who will go to the step of demanding redemption, and that is a situation that we must be able to live with.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-lower.ana.ud594e278	On page 5 of the Committee’s comments – majority comments – a mechanism is described in which the administrators of Finnmark have for many years fixed and resold plots to municipalities for development purposes, at a reasonable price. The last time in this note is as follows: ‘The majority believe that it should be an objective to continue this scheme even after the land has been transferred to Finnmark’s property. This is not apparent from the Government's proposal, but it has emerged from the Committee's discussions along the way. Do the Center Party share the Right's view that it is unfortunate that you are now starting to lay clear leadership in how Finnmark property is going to handle the process, or are you saying what was the original agreement, that you have to let Finnmark property and those that apply figure this out yourself?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-lower.ana.ud594e288	We agree with the remark in the vote, and I have no other comment than that.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-lower.ana.ud594e293	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-lower.ana.ud594e296	If the president doesn't cancel out speaking time, I'll get something in addition. It's okay to get what you're going to get.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-lower.ana.ud594e301	The representative Dørum will speak as long as he will.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-lower.ana.ud594e305	I don't intend to do that, but thank you for the kindness. It's a little surprising to stand here, because the law of Santa Claus has moved in quite a stormy pitch, to the relatively ludicrous waters in which it is located at the process today. I think we just have to find out that we're there now. It is because, as some of the comments in the committee's position show, the compromise that was drawn up in 2004 is essentially a compromise. That's the compromise that's all about the balance between landowners and landowners. I'm personally happy about that. A lot of work was put into it, and a lot of effort was also made by the current Minister of Justice to get it done. With regard to the proposals that have been made, I see it as a proposal that adjusts around this, and which, on its part, is the result of a compromise negotiation between three government parties that had a very different starting point. Now, if you add it up again, you're all still close to the original compromise. But the Left then wants to be faithful to the compromise that we actually agreed to make, and it has the voting consequence that we are voting against the proposal to change the timing of the redemption right. We are voting against the proposal on the right of withdrawal. We are firmly committed to the proposal that we have had in the past to redeem property related to point fixtures in government opinion. We have not changed our view of the relationship with the Finnmark property, nor have we changed our view of the agricultural exemption, which has been adopted in the regulation, but with the clarification that I suppose the representative Syversen thought, that we are of course also determined by the change we made in the calculation of the income base, which occurred in the regulation after the case was dealt with in the Stortinget in 2004. At that point, we felt at the time that there was a reasonable balance between land ownership interests and party interests, and I still believe, on behalf of the Left, that this is the balance that stands. But my total summary, when I first stand here today and take part in this debate – I’m not going to play back and quote all the posts – is that sometimes in politics there is a time for compromises. There is also one point that we should not tear up the compromises after too short a time. The sitting government has, in practice, through the Soria Moria debate, essentially adhered to the compromise, even though there have been changes like me, and the Left, disagree with, and which are then reflected in the voting. Sometimes compromise is something that stands out. I get a quote from a young person who looked at me with his eyes burning and said "compromise." He had learned in life that it was the way that people occasionally surround themselves, a way that allowed them to live together after a while. Since the bonding of land must be the most phillist and pervasive property in the Norwegian legal tradition at all, the compromises remain for a while. I am glad that, in essence, that is the situation today.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-lower.ana.ud594e322	I really didn't intend to take the floor, because I think the case rapporteur gave a very good account of the changes that are taking place, which all the government parties are behind. However, when I choose to do so, it is based on the fact that André Oktay Dahl has repeatedly commented on the comments of the majority, i.e. from the Workers' Party and SV – The Center Party is not in the committee, but I assume that they would have been on the note attached to the Finnmark property if they had done so. I have had reasonable contact with different municipalities in Finnmark now in connection with the introduction of the Finnish Law from 1 July. What has been expressed is a fundamental concern about the consequences of the introduction of the Finnish Law on the ability of municipalities to purchase land. What you're afraid of is you get a kind of market thinking where the municipalities are pressed when they need land. And some municipalities do, there are municipalities in Finnmark that are also growing. I believe that the comment is a recommendation to apply for the same type of regime as when Statskog has operated in Finnmark, tied up with opportunities for land purchase under the direction of the municipalities. It is true that there have been arrangements that have been made in a flexible way and without having been purchased at market prices, which have given some municipalities that have had some difficulty in moving away and in developing their businesses the opportunity to obtain those areas. I must say that I am fundamentally surprised that the right here in this room is so little concerned with those issues. Because what I've labeled is that the Right in Finnmark has been fundamentally occupied with them and has come with the same kind of scepticism. There was a situation during the treatment of the Finnland Act where the distance between the Right Central and the Right Local was enormous. There were two completely different parties. The same is made visible in the hall today. I have to say that I am fundamentally pleased that we now have a government that I do not perceive as putting some undue leadership in the law, but that is concerned with the consequences of the practical policy. This is, of course, a matter of the highest degree of economic development. Right should be the first to post that type of comment. Instead, it is perceived that they partially distance themselves from the comments, or are harping. But I think that in a Finnland perspective, the right is worthy of being much more sensitive to the consequences when the law is introduced. I'm glad that the government parties together show that kind of sensitivity.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-lower.ana.ud594e338	A bonding relationship is a tenancy relationship. Ownership rights relating to land have not been transferred unless they are an issued joint or the contract is to be permanent. This is a simple starting point for the Santa Claus system and for the Law on Landing. Until the treatment of Odelsting on 16 June 2004, the redemption of fasteners was a safety valve, with payment under expropriation law rules. At the Odelstingsbehandlung on 16 June 2004, the then government parties, with the Right in the head, together with the Workers' Party and SV, adopted a massive transfer of ownership from one party to another at a price far below the Basic Law § 105. Paragraph 105 of the Basic Law states that: The right-hand position is being continued today. The centre party voted against this in 2004. It is also anchored in the Central Party programme today. The centre part distinguishes between fixtures for residential and recreational homes. We are attached to the owner-occupiers owning their own land, and that redemption can take place in these cases, but at the usual price in the premises, as it is called. On the other hand, in the case of holiday homes, there are not such serious social considerations as to provide for an equivalent right of redemption. The issue of Santa Claus was discussed and clarified in the Government Declaration. The centre party did not arrive at its view of the necessary changes to the adopted Law on Landing. The matter under consideration today is a direct follow-up to the Soria Moria Declaration. This will strengthen the right of redemption of fixed dwellings, while limiting the right of redemption of fixed buildings to agricultural holiday homes to the properties where the fixed income is more than 5 pst. the net income of the farm. Therefore, in the case of recreational plots, the current oeuvre treatment is a strengthening of the position of individual farmers. It is a step in the right direction to correct an obvious imbalance, according to the opinion of the Centre Party, in the relationship between recreational plots and those farmers who, in faith of the Norwegian law, fixed cabins instead of selling them.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-lower.ana.ud594e347	I think there are two issues in this case that deserve attention when you now invite further changes to the law on Santa Claus. The first – and that is a very fundamental point – is what happened back in the 1990s. The bourgeois parties then introduced market-pricing in an area that is largely linked to a social benefit, namely to live or to have a leisure property. It created and, in the government's view, gives a very good picture of how inappropriate market thinking is in many of the areas of life, in many of the social areas where the government is concerned that we should be secure. It was when all the problems came, in the sense that those who felt a reasonable predictability in their agreements, who felt that they knew what they would have of the expenses of their own dwelling and their own cabin in the future, suddenly experienced a considerable uncertainty. That uncertainty manifested itself in the form that people received high charges for their party contracts so to speak overnight, and for those who are concerned with the process and simplification of laws: that was when the process risk and the process costs came too full. One argues, and continues to argue, about whether one has access to market regulation, and one often disagrees with the tariffs available in relation to market price regulation. This created significant social insecurity, which was significantly cleared up over the last four years with considerable help, among others. The Socialist Left Party and the Workers' Party. It's the next step to bring back the security of many of the country's Santas that are now being invited to take. This is not, as representatives Dahl and Dørum and some others have been involved in, small changes in rules or a bill almost in lukewarm waters. If that were the case, we would definitely be asking both the Left and the Christian People's Party and the Right to possibly support these little rule changes – so if they were not to have any particular consequence. This is important. It matters to many parties. With this proposal, between 150000 and 200000 home fixers will have a better right of redemption, a right of redemption that was fought during the previous period of ageing and which was unobvious. Several landowners were put in a position where, when they began to approach the conclusion of the contract, they were told from the landowner that they could risk taking the house and moving away – a message that some people received. It was a situation that the government parties could not live with today, because this is linked to a social good that is crucial for most people. That is why I am pleased that, through good, constructive political work, a majority is being created to take a very important step forward in relation to the right of redemption. It is obvious that it has been difficult for many of the housing parties in Norway to obtain this right only every 10 years. Many have remained standing at the time of entry into force of this law in the situation that they have to pay a high fixed fee for many years to come because the rules were actually and are so rigid compared to redemption. Now getting this right every two years is important, so that people get in the position to achieve what's the goal: to get out of this fixation relationship so that you get predictability from the whole thing. The representative Horne from the Progress Party is trying to form a picture of the principle of private property rights and the question of contractual freedom. But the Progress Party has not done so. After all, it was the Progress Party that first said in the last growing-up period that it wanted to help support the right of redemption, and that in many ways created the dynamics in relation to the fact that we actually got a right of redemption – and thank you for it – but then the Progress Party has chosen to abandon it by saying that they no longer support the right of redemption. Then there is someone who has not stuck to the principles, it must be the Progress Party in this matter. But even more regrettable is the fact that we do not get the Progress Party, even today, on this issue. When you raise the tab in relation to private property rights, what about the private ownership of those who have actually attached the largest capital to these plots, namely those who own the houses? The private ownership of homeowners, doesn't it count? Doesn't the freedom of contract count for the owners of the house? Where are the principles in relation to that? I would like to invite the Progress Party – to the extent that they want to be principled in relation to such issues – to also take into account those who have actually invested and get the burden of being in such a contractual relationship. Had it been up to the Advance Party, we had no right of redemption at all. We had no right of extension for these contracts, so people could be told to take the houses and move. We had also not had the situation now that we are going away from market price regulation and are going to implement consumer price regulation for the country's many parties, which I am pleased to see. It was almost described by many as a dogmatic socialist policy in the previous period. We introduced a system of only consumer price regulation in the previous period, and now we have made a market price adjustment. It's important. Then it is produced as if you are adopting rules for the state other than those applicable to private landowners. Then, if you read what the Government's ambition is, which is also in the Soria Moria statement, and what's in the setting, you can see that it's just that, on the government side, we want to give the parties even better rights. So we don't protect the state. This is where we're going to design the instructions for state-owned properties and government-run funds, so that you get a better and fairer right of redemption. So the argument that we almost protect the state in relation to our party policy falls on its own unfairness. I believe that we are now doing a completely necessary cleaning-up on the issue of redemption. It's important. Many more will be in the position to get ownership of their plots. This is a result and in many ways also a consequence of attempts in the 1990s, with implementation in 2001, with market thinking in an area where it did not fit. To look for clear and clear government operations to bring social thinking into the context of people's welfare needs, this is a very good example. We wouldn't have done this if we hadn't had the government majority that we now actually have – a very clear and clear red-green policy in that way. I would also like to point out that the Storting will be briefed on the work that is now being done on the instructions to state properties and state-run funds, in particular the Information Society's fund, etc., which we know has been very in the wind in connection with this. It's working on it, and we hope we can deliver quickly. In fact, there are no measures in lukewarm waters or minor changes in rules. These are measures that affect many. The government is also concerned about and continues to be concerned about the large increases in fees that some investors receive as a result of the market price regulation for which the citizens gave the opportunity and which continues to hang. We have a searchlight on that, and we will consider coming back to Stortinget with appropriate measures to mitigate the worst results of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-lower.ana.ud594e366	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-lower.ana.ud594e369	The Minister of Justice put a little bond on him for natural reasons when he presented this bill. If you put the post of the Minister of Justice held, next to the post of Per Olaf Lundtigen from the Central Party, I think you see big differences in the principle approach. The Minister of Justice almost punishes the Progress Party for their positions, but it was basically the same position Per Olaf Lundtägen has now taken – and I am counting on the Central Party. Lundtigen said that the principle starting point for him and the Center party was that a party relationship was a matter of private law, and then between two equivalent partners. Is that a starting point for the Minister of Justice's agreement or disagreement?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-lower.ana.ud594e376	I have no problem admitting that this is a private-law contractual relationship. But it is the case with all types of private-law contractual relationships in this country that it is necessary to consider that they are regulated by both public-law rules and by some other aspects, and that such types of agreements should also be included in a good social context. That's the way it works in several areas. In particular, consumer relations and new purchasing laws, the freedom of contract is partially set aside to protect weak parties. I feel that the Centre Party has been extremely constructive in this matter and has helped to achieve a balance between private contractual freedom and the issue of social considerations. The Soria Moria Declaration, manifested through the proposals we have now, has clearly found a balance that helps 150 000 to 200000 owners of housing to obtain a better right of redemption, while providing good protection to those agricultural interests that provide significant property income. I think it's a good compromise. If we hadn't had the Center Party on this, we wouldn't have had a majority for that. So in that way I'm very grateful.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-lower.ana.ud594e383	No more words have been asked for a line. Nor has anyone asked for the word on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 388]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-lower.ana.ud594e401	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 391]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-lower.ana.ud594e417	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that there be no change of line. In addition, it is proposed that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-lower.ana.ud594e426	Odelsting today deals with changes in the law governing the activities of insurance corporations and pensioners, the so-called insurance law. A unanimous Finance Committee has joined the Government's proposed changes. In concrete terms, this proposal for new legal provisions on private pension schemes will be included as a new Chapter 10A of the Insurance Act. In addition, technical amendments to the provisions of the Insurance Act are proposed. The proposal for a new Chapter 10A of the Insurance Act involves changes to the rules of business of life insurance companies, which provide for a general right to offer joint scales of premiums for occupational pension schemes. This is a follow-up to the Stortinget’s request in relation to the treatment of Ot.prp. No 100 for 2001-2002, where the issue of gender neutrality in private sector pension schemes was assessed. Ot. pp. No 100 was a follow-up to the Kvidal Committee's investigation on the same topic. The Storting bathed in Innst. O. No 9 for 2002-2003 the government comes back with a proposal for new rules for insurance activities that allow insurance corporations and pension funds to provide pension schemes with gender and age-neutral contributions in the private sector. The main objective of the proposals for legislative changes in the proposal is to allow retirement benefit plans to offer joint contribution equalisation schemes if required by private sector enterprises. The proposed legal rules leave to each pension provider to decide whether to establish such an offer of a common funding scheme for several pension schemes. It is also left to individual entities to decide whether it will make use of the access to use of such funding arrangements in each plan. Thus, the proposed legal rules will be an alternative to regular premium calculations for both pension providers and policy holders. The bill is based on the scheme adopted by the Stortinget for municipal pension schemes. The legislative proposal does not deal with issues related to the pension benefits to be provided by pension schemes. The proposal involves a clear distinction being drawn between the financing system itself for each joint arrangement and the calculation of the minimum insurance provisions for each pension scheme. The provision requirement shall continue to be calculated at the level of persons at actuarial level on the basis of the accrued-to-date pension entitlements of each employee. The new feature of the proposal is that contributions can be determined at pension schemes level in principle independently of the actuarial contribution calculated for each employee of the pension scheme. A common organisation shall, on the basis of the proposal, be made annually with premiums corresponding to the sum of premiums to be added, after an actuarial calculation, to all the schemes included in the common organisation. Rules on the calculation of contributions are proposed in joint schemes involving the balancing of pension costs between pension schemes in the common scheme. The draft law distinguishes between the ordinary annual premium, the regulatory premium and other benefits premium that can only be prepaid at the time of the insurance case’s entry, so-called ‘one-off premium’. Different rules for balancing different premiums are proposed. Regular annual premium is proposed on the basis of the right to an old-age pension that will be earned during the year. Furthermore, it is proposed that the costs of services can be calculated and charged separately for each pension scheme. Furthermore, it is voluntary, on the basis of the proposal, whether the regulatory premium should be equalised in the common organisation of the market or whether it should be calculated separately for each pension scheme. The proposal for amendments to the Insurance Act has been out of consultation in the establishments and organisations concerned. The Committee has not registered any professional objection to the proposed amendments. On this basis, the Committee delivers a unanimous opinion. In the comments relating to the proposed amendments, the members of the Committee from the non-socialist parties stress that legislation in the insurance sector must operate in a competitively neutral way vis-à-vis market players. Furthermore, the same members stress that competition in the market is to be sought and that monopolies create distortions and lower and more expensive offers to users. These remarks do not want the government parties to join. The Progress Party finds it surprising that government parties do not wish to support such general market economy teachings, and hopes that this will depend on the need for self-marking and not on real political disagreement about market economy principles. Finally, I would like to recommend the recommendation of the Financial Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-lower.ana.ud594e458	I only have a few brief comments on this matter. This is a matter that the Government is promoting on the basis of a request from the Stortinget. The contributions of life insurance companies vary according to the sex and age of the insured person. The background to this is that the state of health and life prospects, statistically speaking, depend precisely on those factors. Companies that do not take gender and age into account when setting their premiums risk getting too little money to finance their payments. However, there has been a strong desire to make arrangements to ensure that women and older workers are not discriminated against in the workplace. The main objective of the change now adopted by Odelstinget is to facilitate the provision by pensioners of joint schemes that balance the differences in contributions due to different sex and age compositions without compromising the safety of insurance requirements. Using the legal system, insurance corporations receive contributions covering future expenditure on pensions, without giving the individual enterprise reason to hire only persons who are cheap in the context of pensions. In order to prevent the common arrangements from mitigating differences in premiums other than those relating to different sex and age groups, it is proposed to propose certain minimum requirements for the equality of pension plans in the pension schemes to be included in the same common scheme. The legislative proposal is based on an inquiry by the Banking Law Commission and is based largely on the solution for municipal schemes. As for municipal schemes, the law provides for voluntary equalisation of contributions for both pension providers and enterprises. This does not prevent the social partners from agreeing on the equalisation of contributions in collective bargaining agreements, etc. The Banking Law Commission’s investigation was unanimous, but the Hearing Officers were divided into the view on the desirability of allowing for dithering in the single scheme for private-sector defined benefit schemes. Several hearing bodies stress in their hearing opinions that voluntary equalisation of premiums is a key prerequisite. The proposed changes involve opening up a new option in the design of an entity's pension scheme. I hope that businesses and insurance companies will make use of the system, that it can make the labour market easier for women and older workers, and that this will be a topic in the negotiations between the social partners.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-lower.ana.ud594e473	No more people have asked for the floor in case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 392]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-lower.ana.ud594e489	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that there be no change of line. In addition, it is proposed that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the time allocated, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-lower.ana.ud594e498	Norwegian businesses are living in an increasingly international competitive environment. This reality has also acquired Norwegian financial institutions. They work in an increasingly demanding market, while customers can choose from many actors to buy banking and insurance services to a greater extent than before. Fair competition requires a level playing field in the market. This amendment of the law comes as a result of decisions taken in the EU. Since the free flow of capital is part of the EEA Agreement, much of the legislation in this area is regulated by EU Directives. New guidelines for the calculation of the capital adequacy of the Basel Committee form the basis for the legislative changes. The aim of this legislative system is to promote financial stability. The old regulatory improvements intend to better adapt the underlying risk of the institution than before. The risk assessments in this legislation are more advanced than in the past, making it more precise. The directives are minimum rules. In addition to meeting them, each nation has a number of options on how to design specific legislation at national level. This Act, which is to be adopted by the Odelstinget, takes a small position on the design of a number of provisions. It is also not considered whether to be stricter in some areas than the minimum EU requirements are. Various considerations should be sought from the Norwegian side as balanced as possible. In the past, Norway has experienced the consequences of instability in the financial sector. Much is different than it was during the banking crisis in the early 1990s. The banking crisis showed us how important financial security is to society as a whole. The capital adequacy rules are essential in such a context. It is essential that each financial institution has sufficient own funds to withstand the risk of losses inherent in its business. At the same time, it is important to take into account the way in which legislation is drafted in countries with financial institutions competing with Norwegian institutions. It is unfortunate that capital adequacy rules are phased in differently and in a way that gives competing banks a competitive advantage by offering services that Norwegian banks cannot compete against on equal terms. The design of Norwegian legislation must therefore, as far as possible, focus on competitive considerations without prejudice to the soundness of the company. A unanimous finance committee joins the Government's proposal. On behalf of the Committee, I would like to recommend the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-lower.ana.ud594e521	The background to the requirement of own funds is that institutions shall have a buffer to withstand the risk of losses incurred through their activities. Everyone who experienced the banking crisis at the beginning of the 1990s was reminded of the importance of having good rules for this. The legislative proposal now being promoted is part of the process of a substantial change in the solidarity regulation of banks, financial corporations and investment firms. The purpose of the amendments proposed is to modernise the existing framework for the calculation of own funds requirements by, inter alia, making the requirements more sensitive to risk. This implies that the capital requirement of each institution must be more consistent with the risk to the institution. The new system shall contribute to both a more robust financial institution and a fairer pricing of risks. The background to the changes proposed in the capital adequacy rules is new guidance from the Basel Committee, Basel II, and EEA-relevant amendments to existing EU Directives. Legal rules are therefore proposed to facilitate the implementation of the new capital adequacy rules in Norwegian legislation. The bill is drawn up by the Ministry of Finance and is based on a proposal drawn up by the Credit Authority. The legislative proposal is designed to provide an overview of the main elements and structure of the capital adequacy legislation. The legislative provisions shall provide a framework to be supplemented by regulations. Furthermore, the legal provisions should provide sufficient powers to implement the detailed requirements of the EU Directive in the regulation. The need for any national adaptations will mainly be addressed when laying down the rules. The bill retains today's minimum of 8 pst. capital adequacy, but the basis for calculating this requirement is amended. The proposed regulatory framework will allow for the use of institutions' own internal risk management models for the calculation of capital adequacy requirements to a far greater extent than the existing rules. In addition to minimum own funds, which are determined on the basis of the calculation methods set out in the legislative proposal, a requirement is proposed for all institutions to have an overview and assessment of the risks and capital requirements of their activities. Supervisory authorities shall assess their own assessments and it is proposed to extend the possibility for supervisory authorities to impose capital requirements in addition to the calculated capital requirements. Furthermore, disclosure requirements relating to the capital adequacy are proposed. This shall contribute to strengthening market discipline. Insurance companies are not proposed under the new capital adequacy rules. However, a general provision with requirements for sound operation is proposed to apply also to insurance undertakings. New capital adequacy legislation shall mainly apply from 1 January 2007. Before the entry into force of the legal provision, there will be a need to lay down a comprehensive regulatory body laying down detailed rules on the requirements to be applied.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-lower.ana.ud594e538	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 394]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-lower.ana.ud594e554	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 65 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated as follows: Working Party 20 minutes, Progress Party 15 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes and Left 5 minutes. In addition, the President will propose that there be no change of line. In addition, it is proposed that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the time allocated, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-lower.ana.ud594e565	The government has in Ot. pp. No 77 for 2005-2006 presented a number of changes in tax legislation. A large part of the proposals have been endorsed by the Financial Committee of one of the co-ordinators. Some proposals, on the other hand, are political disputes, as is usually the case in fiscal policy. In my view, the proposals from the Government are well thought out, both professionally and politically. That is why there is agreement by the majority of the Committee on Finance on all points. On the other hand, I don't want to give an equally strong certificate when it relates to the linguistic design that the proposition has received. Quite rightly, there are some passengers who are satisfied, but I would like to ask the Minister of Finance for the future to support a better language standard on the documents being delivered. The government proposes an important change in property taxes. The law area will be expanded if the municipalities want to do so. By current law, a municipality may print property taxes in areas such as: «complete or partial urbanisation, or such expansion is in progress». This restriction is not defined within the existing legal text. In turn, there has been a lot of discussion, misgivings and legal disputes between tax payers and municipalities. In my view, the limitation is unclear. A number of instances have pointed to important objections to the current legal text over time. This vision came, among other things. as expressed in the Tax Selection option, cf. Now 2003:9. It was categorically stated that the delimitation of property in urban areas and in works and use outside such areas is weakly justified. In many municipalities it has been desired to print property taxes, but one has left it alone, not because it was a desirable position, but because there are doubts as to whether each limit of property tax should be deducted, or because it would lead to a discrimination of the same type of property courts in the municipality. Therefore, it is priceless that the government is now proposing to clean up the unclear legal state that has existed. Proposals are made to give the municipalities that want to do so the right to print taxes on their property in the municipality as a whole. There should be an alternative to the current delimitation of urbanly developed areas. This way, all the property in a municipality is treated the same way. When it comes to agricultural and forestry property, I come back to them later. It is the individual municipality that has to decide whether to introduce taxes on ownership in the whole municipality, within urban and/or works and use areas. In the political debate, it has been argued that the Government proposes to introduce a mandatory property tax. The claim is incorrect. There is also no factual basis for the claim that a private cabin tax should now be imposed. The government, on the other hand, proposes to remove the untimely scheme that now exists, which opens up the need to pay taxes on small apartments in urban areas, while one too expensive house outside an artificially set limit can escape taxing. In the legislative proposal, it is essentially proposed to continue the exemption rules in the case of property taxes. The right of the local government to exempt the operating part of agricultural and forestry property is made compulsory. The exemption will have the same size as the current rule. In a very large number of municipalities, there is strong support for the proposal to extend the scope of the property tax. This gives local politicians a new and better chance of having a hand on the steering wheel and thus determining the direction in which the policy direction should go. Right makes a number of that the property tax is unsocial and that he frames the wrong way. Furthermore, it is pointed out that the party is against property tax as a principle. It's a paradox that Right argues this way today. When the party was in the government position the previous four years, there was no suggestion in that direction. It was then called from the government quarter that the limitation in ownership taxes was weakly justified, and that municipalities should be given greater freedom of choice. As you know, the Minister of Finance was a measurable matter, a very central right-wing politician. In the comments to the Right option, it is chemically free of the previous reasoning. The government proposes tax exemptions for the rent supplement for seafarers. There shall be an upper limit on the amount of the supplement, a total of NOK 16500 per year. years. The maximum reduction in tax will be close to NOK 4000 for the current year. In 2007, the exemption will amount to NOK 8 000. The objective of the amendment is to establish that it is the tax laws that determine the level of the tax advantage. This way, you can avoid getting a very high tax-free amount. The issue of tax exemptions for the rent supplement for seafarers was raised with full weight during the budgetary procedure last year. The government party then signaled that the matter had to be reviewed in spring 2006. It's now being done. The government has outlined a system that is both professional and political in nature and that is widely endorsed by the Finance Committee. I note that the Norwegian Maritime Association, which specifically organises the least-paid section of seafarers, has not provided a critical view of the proposal. The party of progress, on the other hand, fires a broad side to this government tax proposal. The liability for lifting failure has been brought forward on a failed basis. The proposed scheme provides consistent legislation. The proposed free amount of NOK 16 500 per person. years correspond to those laid down in the tariff agreements between the Norwegian Maritime Officers’ Association and the NHO. This fact shows that the Government and the majority of the Finance Committee have a safe basis for their assessments. The excess of the Progress Party speaks for itself. During the treatment of the 2006 State budget, the size decided to remove the tax exemption from dietary intakes on the continental shelf. Representatives of the Governments asked that the matter be reconsidered in the context of the budget review in spring 2006. It's done. The government proposes the introduction of tax exemptions for the addition of added food on the base with a total annual personal income of up to NOK 600 000. The scheme shall apply from 1 July of this year. The proposal reduces the tax on the free-at-charge of the worker group concerned by approx. NOK 3800 for a person who pays the top tax step 1. The distribution profile is getting better. It is only the Progress Party that approaches the change proposed by the Government here. The government also makes a number of proposals for fees in the proposal. This applies, for example: the document fee for the redemption of fasteners, the document fee for the purchase of buildings on land and changes when VAT is applied for overnight services. In these cases, the Financial Committee has joined the proposals of the Government, either in agreement or with a broad majority.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-lower.ana.ud594e612	I would first like to agree with the statements made by the case spokesman that this document could have had a better language standard. In addition, I think that the content on a number of points could have been better politically. I'll get closer on the way. I will first of all say what we use in tax policy. Taxes and charges are an important area for the Progress Party. We want a simpler tax system. We want a lower tax rate. It's important. We're a little country. We have large distances in this country, high transport costs and a high pay level. Of course, the last thing we should be proud of is that we have, but then it's important that we don't have higher taxes and taxes than our competitors. On the contrary, we should have had significantly lower taxes and taxes than our competitors in order to be competitive. The Progress Party focuses on both corporate tax and personal taxes. Business tax will help to make the establishment of a business in Norway more attractive. It will also help to make the development of businesses more attractive in Norway, so that they are not flagged out at least. A lower and simpler corporate tax system will also help us get more businesses and more jobs in Norway than if we don't do anything about the tax system. We are also concerned with personal taxes, because it will make working more profitable. Several calculations show that especially those with lower and average incomes will increase their labour input if the tax on wages falls and it becomes more profitable to work several hours. Personal taxes will also ensure that wage earners increase purchasing power without having to pay large gross supplements, which in turn will increase competitiveness. We are therefore convinced that tax relief will lead to higher value creation. The loss of public tax revenue in one year will thus be reduced as the years go by and the value creation increases. So there's going to be a bigger profit to tax and also more employee income to tax. Public calculations have also shown and determined that it costs society 20 dollars to finance a krona. Other calculations have shown that it costs up to 50 dollars to finance a krona. This means, then, that when one charges the employees and businesses with $1 billion in additional taxes and taxes, the government will not get the same amount – perhaps only 80 pst. Or maybe only 50 pst. Therefore, it is important to ensure long-term well-being that we contribute to good and sensible tax havens and that we have simplifications in this area. We note that the Government is also indirectly in agreement with this. When we look at yesterday's case of a differentiated employer's fee, it is precisely the means of improving the framework conditions and reducing taxes, what is needed to increase the value creation and secure the jobs in District Norway that have been postponed. When we look at it a little bit bigger, it is that in European context Norway is a small district that is a little bit remote. So, just as those living in some remote regions in Norway have lower taxes than those living in the central regions, it is important that we in Norway have lower taxes than they do in the rest of Europe. We don't have that today. I also note with pleasure that the International Monetary Fund, the IMF, agrees that reduced taxes must be applied, in particular to taxes on labour, in order to improve the competitiveness of Norwegian business. Unfortunately, many of the changes in tax law that will be made today are going in the wrong direction. But a few go in the right direction. One of them is that one goes in to increase the saving for self-employed from 2 pst. to 4 pst. We think that's positive, and the Progress Party will follow this development and periodically evaluate whether it makes sense with a further increase, to 8 pst. When it comes to the idea of narrowing IPA and annuities, it's hard to see any logic here. These are systems that have worked very well, especially the IPA scheme, and it's hard to see things in the Norwegian economy, which means that we should stimulate to save less, like a do when one removes this scheme. If you are busy creating a pressure in the Norwegian economy, you should just stimulate saving and not remove the schemes that are favourable to it. In any case, it is difficult or impossible to defend that there is so much urgent a need to do so in a budgetary year without transitional arrangements. We also have a problem with respect to those who have already paid IPA this year: how are you going to deal with them? Is their money locked, despite the fact that they don't get any tax benefits in the current year, or can they get the money back? I have not received an answer to that. It is also proposed to increase taxation when it relates to reinsurance and rehabilitation benefits combined with disability pension. It is difficult to see any good reason for a tax tightening for this group. Now one of them has been told that when it comes to tax sharpness, it's the rich that will get them, those with the strongest back, that's what's used. I doubt that the Minister of Finance seriously believes that it is those who receive repatriation and rehabilitation money, who are the rich and those with the strongest back in this society. The case-leader was concerned with this with a free diet for the base workers and tax exemptions for the rent supplement, and showed that the Progress Party is releasing and coming with overdue in this case. We're not doing that at all, but there were clear promises from the government party in the election campaign that are not fulfilled. One promised to reverse this, the same way that the Progress Party reversed it one year ago when the Bondevik II government tried to introduce it. That's the same thing that we're left with. We find it incomprehensible that one should introduce a new top tax, a special top tax for oil workers, and that those who charge more than NOK 600 000 should receive this tax. There are similar limitations for rental plugins, i.e. a maximum sum of 16500 kroner. In our opinion, it is also a promise break that this is only done from July 1st and not since January 1st, as was clearly stated in the election campaign. It is also unfortunate that an employer’s fee is imposed on a non-taxable performance. This change, by providing both a new top-level tax for oil workers and restrictions in other areas, will increase red tape and additional work both for the employee, for the employer and for the equality office. Some changes have also been proposed in respect of the document fee. What these proposals show is that the document fee is an unfortunate fee, which creates many difficult problem settings. We would therefore like to remove the document fee in the long term. This operates in many ways as a kind of moving tax, which borders randomly and differently. Among other things, those who are forced to move because of the labour market, etc., will become harder off than those who can settle down and be bowed in the same place almost all their lives. If a document fee is high, this could affect mobility in the labour market, which would be very unfortunate. Some changes have also been made to the VAT legislation. We understand that it is necessary to make some limitations, but we are still critical of some of the changes. And of course, we're busy with what was called the introduction, easy to get a simple tax system. The VAT code is already very complicated, and it may be getting even more complicated with these changes. It is also important to avoid distortions of competition and to ensure that there are no strange rules. So to the extension of the basis of the property tax, where municipalities also have to be able to impose property taxes on non-urban areas. It is quite correct, as the case spokesman said, that this is something that the Progress Party is strongly opposed to. We're overestimated that this is an unfortunate extension, and this is also a law that we're against. There's already some taxed money that one here is going to charge property tax. Expanding this will make it more attractive to invest in other than for example. cabin in Norway. It will make it less attractive to own a cabin in Norway, as well as dwellings in non-urban areas. If these money takes the road, you don't know. It is clear that this will have a certain effect, because when the realities of this matter will come to light, I believe that very many municipalities will benefit from this possibility, and very many both bus owners and cabin owners will be subjected to additional burdens. As I said, we are going against this extension, and we are also proposing to remove the whole law on property taxes from 1 January 2007. That is what we believe to be a thoughtful and defensive proposal. However, if there are multiples – it is unlikely that they will – it will mean that one will have some transitional arrangements for those municipalities that are particularly poor and hard to deal with. We also have some other suggestions that I'm not going to go into in detail. I just want to mention the case that was SV's butcher in the election campaign, the increase in the depreciation rates for machines, such as the vice-leader in SV, Øystein Djupedal, the forefects. There's a proposal that's on the table that it's free for SV to support, as they promised in the election campaign. The other suggestions I'm not going through. Finally, it remains to re-present the proposals that the Progress Party is behind either alone or together with other parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-lower.ana.ud594e654	The representative Gjermund Hagesetter has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-lower.ana.ud594e657	The rapporteur was initially concerned with the linguistic standard in the proposal. I think maybe he should be a little bit more concerned with the content standard, and he'll link some comments to it. The previous government held a strong stance on fiscal policy. With the tax reform as a guide, this gave 24 billion dollars in tax relief to businesses, workers and individuals. It helped to increase business activity and value creation, to create new jobs and to increase the basis for well-being. These results are now visible and indisputable, and fiscal policy is clearly an important tool. The price of this government is at least equal to that, but in the reverse direction. No occasion is neglected, including a modest budget audit, to make new changes to the tax screw. It's not unexpected, because it's notified. But what's unexpected is that it seems to happen by the input method, so it happens randomly. The proposal in the revision of the IPA tightening and annuity schemes is a dramatic tax on private savings. Norwegian savers who use these schemes – and there are many of them – lose with a pen-strip tax credit, and this is going to be lost as a savings form. The Pension Commission, the subsequent pension agreement here on the Stortinget, was based on three support pillars of the pension system: population benefits, labour-based pension schemes and private pension savings. One of the assumptions is actually removed with this. This is an additional tax on the saving of ordinary people, not on the construction of wealth by wealthy people, as the Minister of Finance seems to have been short-circuited to believe when the revised national budget was written, where the documents assume this. I understand that such an assumption is a fine opportunity for a finance minister from SV who cannot be allowed to leave. But in response to the Right Grandningsgruppe, the department admits that over 50 pst. of those using IPA schemes, the gross income is less than NOK 400000 and a significant part is less than NOK 250000. This means that even in the budgetary documents, a search for the'more to the rich' rhetoric is needed to find the facts. The information provided by the insurance industry supports this. By the end of 2005, more than 800,000 had such accounts. It is a very long and good Norwegian savings tradition that is now broken by removing this tax deduction. It is removed without prior impact assessment, and without the Ministry of Finance really knowing who it is. It really affects all those who need to save for a better pension. They're many, they have minimum pension solutions, they're low pensions, they're not at work or they're outside for other reasons. We will now have the most severe tax burden on personal savings in the EEA area. It is completely across Norwegian tradition and way of being, and it gives a clear signal effect. This does not qualify the case rapporteur as a single word in his introduction, while he finds room to talk about the linguistic standard, which in and of itself is important enough. I would like to mention in particular a group that comes particularly badly out of the announced annuity proposal, where there will be full tax on wealth. It's people with one-off substitutes who put the substitute in an annuity. Typically, the young traffic victim will speculate over the lifetime with the return on the one-off substitute. The association informs that very many naturally behave in such a way with their claims. With the current taxes on wealth, the annual post-tax return may be reduced by 20-40 pst. I think it's surprising that you haven't seen such an obvious consequence for perhaps some of the most difficult fates there are, young people without a chance for a professional life later. This group has simply been ignored, and that means that the proposal has been poorly investigated, but it is also poorly socially thought out. It is equally surprising that a government that aims at being the defender of the weak believes that recipients of restitution and rehabilitation money are a group that should be subject to tax increases, which is also proposed in this budgetary audit. Incentives to the right to special deductions and to the tax limitation rule will be a significant tax tightening for such groups. Of course, there is no good motivation to inspire more people to take advantage of their residual ability to work. The desire to tax houses and cabins more strongly merges into this sequence. This increased tax is what the rapporteur calls a clean-up of the legal situation. I call this a desire for increased taxation of ordinary houses and homes. Norwegian savers and taxpayers should face both the revised and the next budget. As a possible alternative to this development, I address the proposals that the Right has made together with others in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-lower.ana.ud594e678	The representative of the Svein Fleet has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-lower.ana.ud594e681	As a matter of fact, in a revised national budget, we should make virtually no major changes to the tax regime. We're making some minor changes, and some slightly important changes. We will return to the larger steps in the ordinary treatment of the State budget. In line with the philosophy behind the conversion of pension organisation and saving there, we reinforce the savings in organised form both within compulsory occupational pensions – which we treated last year and which are now introduced into the labour market – and in this context the ability of self-employed workers to save by tax deductions. In addition, we liquidate the tax benefits contained in the individual pension agreements. The second thing we do is we get what we asked for is an assessment by the Ministry of Finance, namely the tax exemption schemes on the benefits of free food and rental supplements for seafarers. At the same time, we are making changes to introduce it, so that it is the Storting that is responsible and the ability to set the limits for seafarers, and we are introducing a stronger distribution profile in relation to the rent supplement. I thought that I would use most of my contributions to talk about property taxes, which there have been some proper debates about. I've had the pleasure of discussing it in many channels, with many Right-People. I think there's reason to say that property tax is a good tax, it's a local tax, and it's a tax with the potential for good distribution profile, because there's nothing so skewly distributed here in the country as wealth, and because wealth also comes from property. It's just looking around, you see clearly that this shines through all parts of society. In the novel The Führer, Jonas Wergeland – who is the main character, and who grows up in a murderous town in Oslo – is taken up by his friend in the Holmenkol lock to look at the shipowners' villas, in order to understand that there are class differences in Norway. For a boy who's grown up in a murderous city, where almost everyone lives in more or less equal apartments, it's clear that this is going to be a shock. Several people should take a trip up the Holmenkol lock on their Sunday trips, to realize that there are class differences in Norway, and to understand that the property tax is actually a good local tax that can have good distribution effects, if it is properly distributed. In the Progress Party/Hear-steered Oslo, the population loses DKK 0.7 billion in improved public transport services, care for elderly people and school services, because the urban councils believe that property taxes are, in principle, a crazy tax, giving them the biggest tax credits to those with the greatest wealth. After sitting on the municipal committee for four years, I feel that there is one thing that stands as a pillar in the message from right-wing rapporteurs, centre party rapporteurs, Christian People's Party rapporteurs and workers' party rapporteurs in municipalities all over the country, and that is that the property tax law as it stands today – that is, before we adopt the necessary changes today – is old-fashioned and demands renewal. The unison message from most rapporteurs is that it is absolutely necessary to be able to charge property taxes from the entire municipality, not only from those parts that are built on ‘urban’. There are several good reasons for such a change. One is that there are no very good reasons today for sharing between those areas that are developed in ‘urban’ and those that are not. There have been many legal cases, with different practices from area to area and from municipality to municipality. There are differences between similar houses, and there are inequalities in the taxation between similar cabins. In Bergen the distinction has gone so that those who live in block apartments in the cities of the Durban pay property taxes, while those who live in the largest villas in a little more pig-grown street in Fana do not pay property taxes. And it's often those who have the greatest assets. Thus, a person who lives in a small cabin in a cottage area in Vinje may pay property taxes, while people who live in cabin palaces in more piggybacked areas that are not developed in ‘city’ do not pay property taxes. This inequality we're now making sure to do something about. It will continue to be a local tax, which local politicians decide, and it is important for us in our work further.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-lower.ana.ud594e702	I was actually going to come back to the property tax at the end of my post, but I think it might be okay to follow up a bit of what the representative Holmås said. It was otherwise new to me that Fana is a pig-grown stripe, but I get to take a walk! I would say so that Holmås must have misunderstood. Municipal property tax does not take into account whether you have a positive wealth or not. You get it regardless of how the net asset situation is. I have a pragmatic view of property taxes, and the challenge is how to get a property tax that works, with equation rates that are fair, and that also takes into account that there can be people who live in a relatively large house, but who have little income. But we can come back to that in a different context. In the Christian People's Party, we are in favour of a property tax that is a voluntary municipal tax, and we agree that what has been a problem area, i.e., that of urban development, has given difficult limits. But we also have to point out that there should and should be a certain similarity between the taxes paid and the services provided by the municipality. Then I am not talking about taxes that are added. In many municipalities, there may be significant differences between services in built-up districts versus in more pig-grown districts. We do not have an assessment of that in the proposal submitted by the Government. Now it is announced in the proposition that you will come back to further changes in the property tax law, and we look forward to it. Then we would like such an assessment as I referred to could also take place. We will definitely consider agreeing to a scheme that provides a more predictable opportunity for municipalities and residents to know what a property tax at municipal level really means. The representative Holmås also indicated that there were minor changes. I am a little uncertain whether those who save on an individual pension scheme – there are several hundred thousand in this country – fully agree that there are almost insignificant changes that occur at the tax regime presented by the Government. I don't think this is anything to jump over. Our pension system has three main pillars. It's the popular security, it's the collective pension system, and it's – it's been, at least – the individual savings. It is largely removed with a pen stroke, by not giving the tax incentives that you have now had. It's not like that, it was also the representative Fleet, that this is something for the higher income groups. On the contrary, the majority of those who save make less than 400,000 dollars. At least predictable policies cannot be said to be. From the Christian People's Party, we do not intend to leave this case. It actually has to do with the entire long-term pension system in this country. We agree with several of the proposals that the Government is making, so I will not spend much time and effort on them. I just want to point out that we are a little surprised at the tax relief that is now being proposed for those who are going on rehab and rehabilitation, and who are also receiving a disability pension. There the government itself says that there may be a tax charge of up to nearly NOK 20 000, and a class distinction is made between those who have been granted this social security right today and those who will have it in the future. It seems to me that you have some problems with justice in relation to what you have suggested. So I would like to refer to the proposal we are considering regarding the VAT exemption for non-governmental organisations. It is commendable that the government has made such an exception, but there is one catch that we should have corrected, and that is for the non-governmental organisations that also have something, but very little, external service. We are based here on the hearing opinion that both the Labour Party and the LO have submitted in the case, by making exceptions for those who have less than 5 pst. external services, so that they can also be included in this VAT exemption.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-lower.ana.ud594e717	The setting for the current day contains a number of legal changes. One of the most central ones is the change in the deduction of contributions from a seagoing trader to a pension scheme under the second paragraph of Section 2-3 of the Pension Allowance Act and the basis for calculating contributions under the Occupational Pensions Act and the Pensions Pensions Act. The centre party is pleased that it is now legal to allow seafaring traders and personal members of participating companies to save up to 4 pst. by the basis of calculation. The basis of calculation will correspond to the estimated income of persons between 1 and 12 times the basic amount of the population’s income. However, there is a need to consider whether the lowest limit of 1 G should be removed on the basis of distributional considerations at a later stage. Furthermore, it is positive that we now have a change in tax exemptions for seafarers and employees on the base, which has been a matter of controversy that it has not least been important for this government to sign out as part of what we announced in the election campaign before the government was established. Otherwise, I would like to stress that the Center Party is a hot subject of tax according to its ability. Progressive taxes on income and wealth are a notable follow-up to this principle. In this tradition, property taxes have only had a small corrective scale to collect parts of particularly large values resulting from public policies. This is still the central part's position. Property taxes on power plants and urban housing have been granted by the local government a voluntary entry into force today. The local authority may today issue taxes on property in: «clearly demarcated area wholly or partly developed in urban areas, or in which such extensive areas are being developed». This is now changed in Section 3 of the Property Tax Act that the local government can – and I stress – print property taxes on real estate throughout the municipality, while retaining today's voluntary tax delimitation options. The solid means of production of agriculture are compulsory excluded. This is a logical consequence of the objective and has wide international acceptance, and it is important to underline it. For dwellings and holiday homes on agricultural properties, a law regulating the sale and valuation of such buildings shall be taken into account when taxing according to current rules. The amendment to the Property Tax Act will require further work in the future to ensure taxes on the basis of the principle of ability, while especially valuable dwellings and leisure properties may be taxed on property if the local government decides.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-lower.ana.ud594e742	The Left supports most of the proposed changes to the tax laws of the Government promoted in Ot.prp. No 77, with the exception of the proposal to wind up the tax-favorisation scheme for individual pension savings and annuities, the so-called IPA scheme, and the proposal for the taxation of reinsurance and rehabilitation benefits in combination with the disability pension of non-residents. In addition, the Left considers that there should have been limited transitional rules for losses on shares of participating companies realised after 12 May, as was done for limited liability companies by the application of the exemption method, and that also external services of voluntary organisations where these represent a very low percentage of the total scope of the service are exempted from VAT. The left is also pending for the proposals outlined in the Svalbard taxing of citizens living on Svalbard, and we will reserve the right to consider the various proposals in the 2007 state budget. In addition, the Left, either alone or with others, promotes a number of proposals for changes in tax law. Proposals to adjust the limits on the amounts of the employer’s tax exemption for paid work in charitable or voluntary organisations, proposals to include revenue from forestry in the base deduction of the agricultural deduction, proposals to strengthen employee participation in their own enterprise by doubling the tax-free discount on the purchase of shares in their own holding, and proposals to increase depreciation rates for machinery and equipment from 20 to 25 p.m. Despite moderate changes in the revised national budget in 2006, the Left is very concerned about the developments now taking place under the red-green government on the tax side, where most of the tax scarfs are targeted at Norwegian industry, Norwegian enterprises and Norwegian jobs, as well as now through the proposal to wind up the IPA scheme, which affects largely self-employed people. Tax policy is a key tool in promoting the value creation of business. The results of the previous government's policy show this clearly. Tax policy was used in such a way that we were able to stimulate both the economy, create more businesses and jobs, and at the same time increase the tax access to the public – what Jens Stoltenberg claimed was impossible and called voodoo economy. The proposal to remove the tax-stimulated IPA scheme is double-dramatic. Firstly, there is absolutely no subject for consultation or for a proper impact assessment. There are more than 800000 individual IPA and annuity agreements, and a total of nearly DKK 8 billion was paid into such schemes in 2005. By comparison, the mandatory occupational pension market – which was carefully investigated – represents only about DKK 3 billion in annual contributions. Secondly, there is a dramatic breach of the pension agreement entered into by the Stortingen one year ago. It has always been a prerequisite for the Left that the pension reform should be based on three basic pillars: social security, compulsory supplementary pension and private pension saving. It is clear that the Workers' Party and the Centre are now finding solutions to pension issues more and more with others – I am thinking of government colleagues SV and LO – than with the parties with which they made a broad settlement one year ago. We see that in this case, and we saw that in the case of AFP earlier in ours. The dramatic new thing is that the conciliation partners were not even consulted before proposals were made. The government parties, with the Labour Party and the Central Party at the head, announced offensive policies in many areas before the elections. For the Workers' Party, there was an active and offensive policy on nutrition and ownership, for the Centre Party, new instruments for the agricultural industry and for voluntary Norway were at the centre. Now that these parties have the opportunity to turn the electoral campaign into a practical policy, it is fundamentally failing. Proposals to strengthen voluntary organisations by adjusting the ceiling on the amount of the employer’s tax exemption in line with the general wage increase and proposals to include revenue from the forestry industry into the bottom of the agricultural deduction, which would both increase the maximum and increase the profitability of the smallest forest assets, the Government, with the Centre party at the head, is voting against, without giving any specific factual justification. There is in particular the problem of the whole suspension – lack of debate and argument. The same applies to the proposals on active business and ownership policies by increasing depreciation rates and doubling the tax-free discount on the purchase of shares in its own enterprise. Finally, a little bit about the proposal on the amendments to the Property Tax Act. Left supports Government proposal. This does not mean that we provide general support for increased property taxes, but that it is cleared up in some obvious unfairness, and that municipalities and municipal politicians are given more opportunity to make decisions concerning the municipality's own citizens. For the left, in most cases it will lead to no property tax in the municipalities, for example: on common cabins and houses. I bring this up with the suggestions I have referred to in the article.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-lower.ana.ud594e764	The representative Lars Sponheim has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-lower.ana.ud594e767	In the context of the revised national budget, no substantial changes are presented in the tax system. But there have been some adjustments that the case rapporteur and other speakers from the government parties have been very careful about, so I should just pay attention to some comments. The change made in the Property Tax Act is important in relation to many of the issues that now exist around the Commune-Norway. This implies a voluntary possibility for municipalities to introduce property taxes throughout the municipality and not only in urbanly developed areas. The background to the fact that the property tax law of the past had a restriction on ‘built-in urban areas’ was linked to the goods at that time by living in central strata in the municipality, for example. connection to water and sewerage, etc. This has now changed significantly, and the service to the municipality's inhabitants is usually just as good throughout the municipality and is also often financed through fees. We know that many municipalities have a significant challenge in relation to, for example: the following situation: Small apartments in the centre of a municipality may receive property taxes, while large villas on the outskirts of a municipality may exempt property taxes entirely. So the change allows municipalities to introduce a fairer way of implementing property taxes, but it is the local freedom of choice. So to a couple of other things that have been up in the debate. Firstly, I would like to comment on what is involved in a change in taxation of reinsurance and rehabilitation money. This is a change made by the Storting with effect from 2002. At that time, it became a retirement income that was converted into a refurbishment and rehabilitation allowance. At the same time, the level of these benefits was raised, not to the detriment of the beneficiaries, but to the benefit of thosereceiving rehabilitative and rehabilitation money. In this context, there was no attention to the fact that there were some of these, both in the public and private sectors, which also had occupational pension schemes with disability coverage. There is, therefore, a discrimination today in taxation among those who are reintroduced and reintroduced on the basis of whether or not they have a disability-based occupational pension. That's why this change is made. It's not for those inside the system today, it's for new cases. And that's precisely because it can lead to significant tax changes that we're not supposed to come as a surprise to people. So if the Storing minority believes what they are doing, the change that took place in 2002 should really be reversed, because today’s system means significant discrimination among those who are currently reintroducing and rehabilitating. That's the background of the change. It's made as soft as possible not to hit people who initially don't have good advice, and to ensure equal treatment. So some comments finally about what is involved in the taxation of IPA and annuity. The main proposal for a pension in what is now promoted by the Government is that self-employed persons should have the same opportunities as employees in respect of occupational retirement provision. That is why there is a proposal here for a tax incentive from 2 to 4 pst. for self-employed workers as well. It has been very well received by the self-employed as an opportunity and non-discrimination in order to secure the pension. However, the government did not have a starting point for extending tax incentives for pension savings. That is why the back of the medal in respect of occupational retirement provision is the changes in IPA and annuity.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-lower.ana.ud594e789	Some representatives have requested a longer justification for the changes to IPA etc. Now the finance minister has made some comments on that, but I continue where she left off. About six months ago, this national assembly took a historic decision in the context of the world, even mentioned in the Wall Street Journal on December 19, 2005. As the first Western European country, we passed a law requiring all private companies to provide occupational pensions to their employees. As everyone knows, public employees have had such supplementary pensions for a long time. During this year, and with economic impact from 1 July of this year, the scheme will give many future pensioners an economically much safer life. Until occupational retirement provision became compulsory for all, now also self-employed, private individuals have been able to draw up different pension and savings contracts — IPA and individual and collective annuities — with tax deductions. The need for this offer is not present in the same way as before. Therefore, the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre go in to wind up the tax incentives themselves for these schemes. This applies to three schemes. Firstly, IPA, the individual pension agreement, which is a pension scheme less taxable income in the year of payment, as well as exemptions from taxes on wealth and income. On payment, the amount of the tax as pension income. The number from the SSB shows that 95 pst. by those who have IPA either are employees or self-employed. The vast majority will therefore be covered by a new compulsory occupational pension. In addition, we know that people with high incomes save more in IPA, and they save on average much more than those with lower incomes. This means that the tax aggravation itself means that the scheme will now lapse, have a large impact on those with high incomes and to a small extent on those with low incomes. Secondly, individual annuity is more to be regarded as an ordinary savings plan with a certain commitment period. You get an exemption from taxes on wealth, and you don't get taxed on a continuous basis by your income. The return is first taxed on withdrawals, in which case it is not taxed as pension income but as general capital income. Here it is very much tax incentives for the wealthy, by the fact that people with high income and wealth receive very much the tax benefits. Moreover, they do not pay with low wealth taxes. This clearly underlines that the offer is very favourable to those with the highest income and the highest wealth. However, there is no reason to hide that both these products are used by people in all income groups. It shows the figures from the Ministry of Finance, which the companies also know about. But the figures show, above all, that there is a greater savings in income and wealth, and that the tax benefits are, in total, substantially received by those with high incomes and high wealth. Thirdly, collective annuity is a pension savings scheme used by groups of employees where the ordinary collective tax incentive schemes have not been sufficient. This scheme is most likely to be used for the purpose of supplementing the top of collective supplementary pension schemes or as early retirement schemes for managers. But, of course, there will be examples where employees with more normal income have such arrangements. The important thing for those who currently have these savings products is that the schemes can be continued. And they can, but without the tax advantage. Existing IPA Agreements are converted into IPA Freelines. Payments will no longer be deductible, but the other benefits will continue to exist for what has already been allocated to retirement through IPA. That means that what has already been paid will be exempt from tax on earned income and wealth, and the payment is taxed as pension income. The changes for the annuity products will apply from the 2007 income year and will not be modified for those using the savings scheme during this year. It is also important to stress that private savings for own pensions are not eliminated. It's the tax benefits that are being removed. And it is on the basis that Norway has introduced an occupational pension reform that has given all, absolutely all, employees the right to an additional pension paid by the employer. It is a major reform. For everyone in the private sector, it is done through private companies. It is a collective and equalising pension reform, and it is a reform that is unique in the international context.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-lower.ana.ud594e817	While the representative Lundtigen says that there are a number of changes in the law here, I want to go a step further and say that this proposition also presents a number of tax increases. IPA, which was in the last speech, is by no means something that is used by most wealthy people. In fact, 830,000 Nordics use IPA and annuity schemes. Their median income is NOK 300,000. 50 pst. of those who use IPA and annuity, have an income of less than DKK 400000. A significant number of these have an income of less than NOK 250000. If this is Norway's prosperous, I think the government has really flashed. Annuity, to move it a step further, has a group that can be seen as wealthy, namely traffic damage that has received one large payment and that wants to use that payment for a longer period of time, and use the annuity scheme. The removal of tax savings and incentives for them means a significantly lower rate of return, and thus perhaps even a higher level of public living. One of the three pillars of the pension agreement is also removed here, and in relation to today's legislation, private savings are punished for your own pension. It doesn't support the Right side of the page. With regard to the cab tax, it can be seen that it has now come too far. While there was a centre-right government that both removed the tax on the benefits of owner-occupied housing and lowered the property tax for dwellings and leisure homes, and which also wanted to abolish the total wealth tax, this government has now taken another step up the tax path. This means only increased taxes. It's not uncommon, especially in the South, to have a cabin that's very valuable. Often it has been given as a result of inheritance. When this government goes out and says rhetorically that you want to take those who have the most, it's so far right that you have a lot of paper money, but in that property there's a lot of affinity value. Nor is it everyone who actually has the ability to maintain what they want on their leisure properties, which they have inherited, largely. The key to the tax screw for these is not to take those who have the most, but it will be to take those who are already struggling today. It is also the case that property taxes are very distorted, and it is very different from social ones. It's not affordable to increase the tax for most people. A new taxing of the entire property tax base, which many municipalities now want to implement, can also contribute to increased property tax. Right is the object of property taxes. In the municipalities where we sit in position, like in Oslo, we often have property tax as one of our main things – we want to remove or minimize it. So I just want to add briefly that Right strongly supports what the representative Syversen says about non-governmental organisations, their VAT obligations on external services and the proposal behind the opposition parties Right, Christian People's Party and Left. Let me conclude by saying that an overall opposition is pleased that the Government has a proposal on the marketing of space rentals in hotel and similar activities, the rental of real estate for camping and the rental of cabins, holiday apartments and other recreational property related to such activities. That opposition has problems is the delimitation. The demarcation between VAT and non-VAT services must be established in such a way as to avoid distortions of competition. Feedback is given that the legislation the government parties want to introduce would mean that a private cabin rental company might have to set up a campsite in order to get a VAT deduction. This is problematic. Therefore, there is also an overall opposition at Innst. S. No 205 for 2005-2006 presented a proposal calling on the Government to take a look at this.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-lower.ana.ud594e838	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-lower.ana.ud594e841	The fact that only property taxes have been imposed on houses and cabins situated in urban areas is unfair when those who own properties located near the local centre are required to bear the entire property tax alone. For example, it may seem unreasonable for the local government to decide to levy property taxes for a small block apartment, while large houses and cottages outside the city centre are exempted. In addition, the scheme has created a number of borderline and doubt cases. This has caused too many disputes and legal proceedings. In view of this, many municipalities have avoided the whole problem by not introducing property taxes. This is now much clearer, and municipalities are more able to determine the criteria for the property tax themselves. Even the Right has previously been critical of today’s most unclear borders, and they have also wanted greater municipal autonomy within this field. But it was before, not now. Right-wing local politicians do not now believe this possibility. I also think it is right to say that this is a beloved source of income for many municipalities, income that benefits all the inhabitants. Let me take three examples: Civilly overthrown Kristiansand municipality gets 130 million. NOK in property tax. In comparison, Kristiansand's net cultural budget is 110 million. kr. Fredrikstad municipality has a property tax income of 190 million. kr annually. To give a picture of what that means, it equals 40 pst. of the school budget. South travel municipality, which is a significantly smaller municipality than the two above, introduced property taxes with effect from this year. That means an extra million dollars in the municipal fund this first year. For Sørreisa, it is the money that comes well, in view of the service offered. I dare to venture the claim that the possibility of introducing the tax throughout the municipality would make this matter easier, for example in South Africa, because it would have been perceived more fairly. For many municipalities, large and small, income from property taxes means a lot for what kind of welfare services you are able to provide to your inhabitants. The proposed change is also a step in the right direction in strengthening local democracy. I am pleased that the municipalities will now be free to tax everyone, either to increase income or to distribute the burden differently from today. The property tax is a maximum voluntary tax for municipalities, and the municipalities themselves are now given the opportunity to decide how they think the property tax is going to be as fair as possible. In my opinion, it is high time that we received this amendment.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-lower.ana.ud594e852	I've long wondered what's really the definition of red-green policy. During this debate I think I have found the answer. The answer is that if you see an injustice, you solve the injustice of introducing a new injustice. When the red-green parties are annoyed by the fact that there are people who do not pay property taxes, you introduce a law that makes it possible, and that – if you listen to the red-green politicians – will lead to everyone paying property taxes. When the red-green politicians discover that there are some people with high income who save in private pension insurance, yes, they solve that problem by taking the other people who pay for private pension insurance. It strikes me with what enthusiasm the Workers' Party and the SV's speakers talk about that now they can introduce taxes throughout the municipality, because then you will be able to increase well-being. But if you don't think about the well-being of the people who have to start paying property taxes, because it's not that the tax base of the dwelling or property necessarily corresponds to the income or pension you have! We know that there are many pensioners, many teachers and many nurses sitting in a cabin that they may have inherited. But what provokes me equally strongly is that the revised national budget with a pen stroke eliminates the private individual pension savings of annuity. In a letter to the Høres Storingsgruppe, the Council has recognised that more than half of those who save in private pension insurance earn less than DKK 400000 – and then they continue to retain a rhetoric in this room and say that it is the high-wages who have private pension insurance – yes, in fact, there is a significant proportion that earns less than NOK 250000. It is not the case, as the Council of State says, that when a compulsory occupational pension is introduced as an option also for self-employed persons, it must lead to the taking of private pension insurance. Because it's only 15 pst. which are self-employed, while 85 pst. are other people. We know that in the case of annuity – the right has been in contact with Traffic Damaged National Association – there are a lot of traffic damage that puts a one-off sum on an annuity and lives on it for the rest of its life. I should like to hear the Council of State reply as to how she views a person who has received a one-off payment of $3 million. NOK 30 000 less to route within one year. This isn't figured out at all. This has happened with a pen stroke. And you ask me, I think it's Councillor Kristin Halvorsen who in a late night hour has had a lack of money, and so you removed the private pension insurance without looking at the significant consequences it could have.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-lower.ana.ud594e861	It could be tempting to pull up the Right ralling over the introduction of a fairer property tax, but in order that this should not take too long, I will leave it lying. But it has to be allowed to say that one might have to clean one's own house first before one raids over a completely obvious change that needs to be made in order to achieve a fairer system for the implementation of property taxes in Kommune-Norway. I'm just going to give some brief consideration to some of the changes that are now coming into the fee package in the revised version. Several amendments are proposed to help clean up existing legislation and, insofar as some bets in the form of tax relief in individual areas are also proposed. The main thrust of the debate is the proposal for an exemption from the CO2 tax on the environmentally friendly fuel bioethanol. Bioethanol is, as is known, made from a biological material that does not contribute to the net emissions of CO2. The proposal is that this type of fuel is exempt from charge when it is mixed in petrol. At the same time, the Ministry warns that this with the strange, funny scheme that will allow this type of fuel to be affected by the alcohol tax legislation, it will now be cleaned up – to say the word – and I see that the Halvorsen smiles well in the first row in the hall. This is good for the environment. What is also good for the environment is that it is now announced that when buying hydrogen cars with internal combustion engines, a temporary exemption from the one-off charge is granted. In the past, we have announced in this room that we will come back with a full review of the normal car charges. These proposals give a bold signal to the development of a more environmentally sound car park in Norway. It also seems that these proposals have broad support in this Chamber. Then the representative of Skovholt Gitmark was in the case of an exemption for VAT for internal transactions in non-governmental organisations. This has been a wish of the organizations themselves. The main recordings of these consultations on this legislative proposal have been followed up. However, it is true that the remaining point is an opportunity for these organisations to maintain a type of derogation, even though a small part of the services are offered externally. Here I record that there are some shared opinions in the voting among the parties in the committee. A lot of technical things could be said about this, but the main arguments against doing something like this now are that it will lead to significant demarcation problems. But in this room, from this pulpit, I would like to say – and I have also told those who have asked me – that we should monitor how this turns out. We're going to listen to the reality descriptions from the organisations about what this will mean in practice, and then we're going to review it if it turns out that it might pose crazy problems for the organisations.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-lower.ana.ud594e878	I have observed for a long time that government parties have repeatedly stated that they want to listen to people and that they want to get recorded. There was something they said before the campaign, in the campaign and after the campaign. So now these changes are going to eliminate the tax advantage of individual pension savings, as lightning from the clear sky. We have had consultations in the Financial Committee on the proposed legislative changes and the tax and tax changes from the Government. All the hearing bodies that have been very clear that this came as a surprise, and there are many drawbacks to it. Now there are many who have been up here today and argued well why you should not make changes. What I'm stunning about is that you choose to make such a proposal more or less above the table, and make sure that it is implemented without feeling that you give a really good reason to all the hundreds of thousands of people who are affected by this. When discussing compulsory occupational retirement provision, nothing was said in this room or in the government proposal at the time that this would have major dramatic consequences, among other things. this area. It was announced from one of the representatives of the government parties that one might have to look at some changes, but that one had to remove this completely, came, as I said, as lightning from the clear sky. I had hoped that we could get a better reason in the debate here today for why you choose to do so. So some words about property taxes. For very many people who are affected by the property tax scheme in Norway, it must have been quite daunting to hear the contribution to the representative Holmås from SV. Comparing virtually all those who pay property taxes, with the so-called rich people who live in the Holmenkol locks, is quite dry. There are very many people who are sitting – quite right – with quite large houses, but who are actually minimum pensioners and people who can't afford it. They have, which I actually thought was also SV's housing policy, acquired a real estate where they want to live. Very many people get quite a lot of money because of the property tax in many places in Norway. And then to make an argument that this is a good tax, I think it's quite daring, but it's going to be on SV's account. I think very many, including many of the SV's own voters, experience this tax as very unfair. It is not the rich who have and get the big problems. The rich – whoever it may be, there are some of them – have the opportunity to pay the property tax, but there are quite a few others who have great challenges in paying that tax. I have registered that the government has talked about going back to the tax level for 2004. Since this is a local tax, I guess those who get this increased bill are not involved in that calculation. Therefore, there are some places in this country where more people will now have to pay taxes far beyond the level of taxation in 2004.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-lower.ana.ud594e895	The representative of the Central Party, Lundtigen, has always been an avid spokesman for the fact that people's ordinary house, and cabins for that matter, should not be subject to extra taxation. That's why I listened carefully to his post to see if I could capture something that was not in the notes – yes, now there were otherwise no comments from the government parties on this occasion. He talks about ‘taxes by ability’, and he admits that distribution policy is not the property tax very good. And then you're going to pick up some of the big values that exist in some properties. We find nothing of what has previously been said in the Central Party that ordinary properties should not be subject to taxation. It's strange that you don't have the power at least to show some of this in government cooperation, some of the perception you have of this. It's disappointing to the Center Party. Now one joins with Heikki Holmås and goes on a Sunday tour in Holmenkollen to see which houses to pick out to tax. – It may be good to do on Sundays! So a little comment to the Aasen Agdestein, which repeats this, which is not right, that it's the ones with the greatest income and wealth that uses IPA systems. I also recommend that the representatives of the Workers' Party read the answers that come to the opposition and to the Right, because this has been repeated in answer to question No. Seventy-three. As if that were not enough, I also recommend the posts of State Secretary Grams in Today's Business today, where he writes: ‘However, there is no reason to believe that the level of income of those who save in iPad is representative of the level of income of those who use individual annuities.’;» This comes after he has talked about those who use individual annuities, are the ones who earn the most and have the greatest wealth. See the other way, he now agrees, of course, with his own answer that there is a majority who have low incomes. One should have had a closer contact with the department and, as I said, also read the answers to us before writing their articles. Finally, I find it troubling to hear that a Socialist Left State Council meets and defends the removal of the minimum deduction and the removal of the tax-restriction rule for people who only have pensions to live on, with technicalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-lower.ana.ud594e912	First a few words about the property tax and those who would like to go for a walk in the Holmenkol lock. It would probably be discovered that for the nice villas there you don't pay very high property taxes, because they are built quite many years ago, and you pay far less property taxes there than for recent apartments built in the center of, for example. a city like this, if you had a local property tax. One of the points here is that you should clean up the entire tax system for property taxes. To the extent that the Government wants to do something about it, we are absolutely responsive. Then both the Aasen Agdestein and the Council of State have defended the removal of tax deductions by individual saving, with the fact that the vast majority of people will be cared for. It's not the people we're trying to defend first and foremost, it's the ones that are falling through because of the decision that's to be taken today. In particular, it is the marginal groups that will not benefit from compulsory occupational retirement provision or other arrangements. What is the answer to these groups? Nothing! So until Torgeir Micaelsen said about the volunteer organizations. We are very happy that they will now largely drop VAT, but I think what will happen is that you want to adapt and make sure that you have no external billing beyond 5 pst. The point of the scheme presented by the Government – if you are charged externally at all – is that all activities in non-governmental organisations will be subject to VAT, and that it is an intentional effect of what you have proposed, I have actually hurt to believe. Here I think you can read the Workers' Party's own hearing opinion on the code presented to Stortinget. And also in this case, one rejects it by saying that there will be difficult demarcation issues. I think maybe the volunteer organisations had deserved to get into that delimitation and presented a better setup, which would make them even more solid players in Norwegian society than what the positive approach to general exemption from VAT implies.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-lower.ana.ud594e921	This is one of the first tax debates we have after we've got a majority government and a certain amount of smoking in the political landscape, and that's interesting. The tax policy, the direction of fiscal policy and the course to be taken are important for the overall policy. That's why I think we should stop a little bit and use this opportunity to elaborate and discuss some of these issues. Although the major steps and changes taken in this context are not in themselves, it is nevertheless politically interesting to see which way this is going. My challenge is specifically to the Central Party's financial politician, Lundtigen, who is now meeting the Stortinge as part of a parliamentary basis for a new red-green government. I had the pleasure of sitting with the Center Party in the Bondevik I government a few years ago. The centre party then had the finance minister, and many of the issues in the debate today, are issues in which the then central finance minister had a considerable commitment, and which, at least the more clearly, were established in what I would call the nights, traditional center values, such as stimulating saving rather than consuming in the present – a very traditional value that has been shared in the centre, and which is now being severely reduced by removing the individual pension saving. I have myself sat on the chamber of the government apparatus and heard how strong, for example. The Central Party has defended these arrangements in the past. Greater incentives for voluntary organisations, and not least participation in their own businesses, and how to secure local owners living and living in their own neighbourhoods. The centre party is not at home in any of these areas in the setting that exists today, and it is tempting to challenge the spokesman of the centre party on what his thoughts about this are. If it comes, it's very good, and then it might be interesting to have got a little signal about this. So to the property tax question, where the left does not share the right-hand position. We think it is right to reform property taxes by allowing municipalities to decide for themselves, but then they also have to include what is outside urban areas. But I want to warn you very strongly about a development where this is the beginning of a situation where property tax is something that really forces all municipalities to get the accounts to go around and get an increase in tax proceeds in all municipalities. There is a danger that this extension may be a glider against a generally high property tax which is a new form of taxation in Norway and which is definitely not taxed according to capacity. I think it's important to get this in, for example. by not subjecting ordinary cabins and houses to that type of property tax through a high base deduction from the tariff system. It could have been very interesting to hear where the Central Party stands in this diversity of government cooperation that the opposition is facing today in fiscal policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-lower.ana.ud594e930	Many have taken the following verbs in their mouths, namely ‘to use’ IPA. It can be done in different ways. You can sign an IPA contract -- you can do that -- but you don't have to put money into it every year. It's totally voluntary. You can put in $1,000 if you want, and you can put in a lot more. You can fill up to the maximum amount, and you can only have a sleeping IPA agreement – both are fully possible. When you talk about ‘using’ in this room, you can't separate this from what I think creates misunderstandings, because the numbers show that it's being saved to a greater extent and with more money the greater the income and wealth you have. That's what's been our point. Our point is not that there are many people who have quite normal incomes, who also use this form of saving, but that they use it much less, and that it is the wealthy who use it most. That means that the richest have received the greater part of the tax relief, and those with the lowest income have not received that much of the tax relief, similar to the aggravation. 4 pst. the tax consolidation will come in the three lower income deciles, if that is the case, while 60 pst. the fiscal austerity will come in the two top income disparities, dividing the whole population into ten deciles.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-lower.ana.ud594e937	The next speaker is Jan Tore Sanner, who is the last recorded speaker.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-lower.ana.ud594e940	I hope I'm not going to be the last speaker, because I'm going to ask the finance minister some questions. I think it is quite alarming that the case rapporteur does not mention the removal of tax incentives for annuity and IPA in a single word. I also think it is quite remarkable that the Minister of Finance only mentions it in a parentheses. The representative Marianne Aasen Agdestein is so worried because the richest get the biggest tax discount with IPA, and then her answer is that Olga, who earns $200,000, will lose the tax discount she is actually quite happy with. One may attack some of the most valuable things in our society, namely that individuals take responsibility for themselves and for their future, thus saving them to their old age. This is valuable. That's something we should take care of. I have three questions for the Minister of Finance. The reality is that IPA and annuity pay $8 billion per annuity. years, while the Banking Act Commission says that in compulsory occupational retirement provision there is only a market of NOK 3 billion. Now removing a private pension insurance market of nearly 8 billion kroner, does the Minister of Finance see it as a trifle? Doesn't she think it deserves a little better investigation? That's the first question. The second question is, is it true or is it wrong that more than half of those who use IPA have a gross income of less than 400000 kroner? The third question is: is it right or wrong that we now get the most stringent legislation in the whole EEA area in terms of private individual pension savings? And the fourth question that I also want to answer is: what is the Minister of Finance's message to those people who have received a one-off payment, and who save this one in annunciation, when they might have reduced their annual payment by between NOK 10,000 and NOK 30,000? What is the Minister of Finance's message to these people? How does she think they should be compensated for the loss of income they receive when the Minister of Finance gets an impact on his tax changes?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-lower.ana.ud594e957	The centre party is a sober economic party that places great emphasis on saving, so you have to have reserves in relation to what life brings with it. What has been mentioned here is the ratio of tax incentives for compulsory occupational retirement provision to the continuation of tax incentives for private savings schemes linked to IPA and annuity. To put it simply, there has been no problem for the Central Party to support the Government's proposal, seamsily because we are opposed to a bag and bag policy that requires the continuation of previously tax-stimulated savings schemes, while at the same time introducing new tax-stimulated savings schemes. It is part of the policy that priorities must be set, and that is what we stand for here. In the case of voluntary work, the Centre Party is quite committed to the rules applicable to the voluntary sector. We want to get back to it, so that you can, among other things. VAT and employers legislation can ensure that voluntary work is more valued than it is today. Moreover, I have not perceived that the opposition has given particular attention to the inclusion of a tax system based on the ability to tax – unless it is surprising. There is a strong signal for us in the Center Party that there is no greater excitement about this, when we know that we need to have a high common consumption in the future, and therefore also a high total taxing. It's very central to us that we keep taxes according to our ability as the central principle. I can assure people that there are few who will see the Central Party's fiscal spokesman in Holmenkollen on housing taxation. To that I have a good enough overview of the situation up there. I just want to draw attention to – and it also goes on priorities – that today we are at a time when social resources are being used in relation to the extra standard of dwellings and cabins that are beyond what is wise. What you want to do is for the individual, but it is the responsibility of the authorities to ensure that this is dealt with, so that those who want to be extravagant in terms of the design of dwellings and cabins, while at the same time having full tax deductions on debt interest, also have to expect to face a tax that corrects this system error that we have in the economy today. However, it is important for the Centre Party to repeat what I said in my post, namely that the change in the Property Tax Act will require further work in the future in order to secure taxes on the basis of the principle of ability, while especially valuable dwellings and leisure properties may be taxed on property, if the Municipal Council so decides. So we have a lot of work left.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-lower.ana.ud594e972	What is dealt with by tax proposals in the context of the revised national budget, which is what we are discussing today, is not debatable, nor is it the case with regard to pensions. In particular, it is not debatable that we have introduced a compulsory occupational pension scheme for employees, and now a change in relation to the occupational pension for self-employed persons, which is very good. It's not a trifle. As a result, 600 000 employees receive a better pension scheme and, in this context, they also receive significant tax incentives. It is true, as the representative Lundtigen said, that we have not had a desire to provide tax incentives in bags and bags. That is the background for the proposals in this setting for IPA and annuity. It's true, what's in the answer from the Ministry of Finance to the Right Magnifying Group, is that 50 pst. of those with IPA, the income is less than NOK 400000. But it is also true, as the representative of Aasen Agdestein has stressed in several respects, namely that IPA is not one particular amount and only that. IPA can be a small amount. It has been documented in respect of the lowest income. The large tax benefits of this go to people who have significant income. It is also documented in the answer sent to the right. So this has a good distribution profile. What is basically being done here now is to link tax incentives in pension to labour income rather than capital. It is also a sensible device to make such major changes to the pension system as we do now. It is of great importance and is a great advantage for both workers and self-employed people. On a stand-alone basis, I cannot say what EU legislation is like in relation to Norwegian legislation in terms of the overall tax incentives for pension savings, but what I can say is that the system we now have for occupational retirement provision, compulsory occupational retirement provision for all employees, and the offer we now have for self-employed workers, is very good in the European context. The fact that some groups that have used annuity may have special and very specific stories as a background for it has not been focused on IPA and annuity liquidation. This type of situation will arise when general changes are made.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-lower.ana.ud594e983	Svein Fleet has had the word twice and gets the word for a short note, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-lower.ana.ud594e986	Just a brief comment on the lecture given to the Right Group in particular by both the Minister of Finance and the representative of Aasen Agdestein that very many of these 830,000 are accounts on which there is more or less nothing. We know that, of course, but we also know – and I assume that those who are in position, too – that there are exactly as many people you take from the opportunity to save at all. Then I am glad that you have now agreed that there are very many – over 50 pst. – which has relatively low incomes. With regard to the contribution from the representative Lundtigen that the centre party is for tax by ability, and that it is reflected in that they are for these cuts on the IPA side, I will answer that is exactly the question we have asked; whether this is taxation by ability.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-lower.ana.ud594e993	Jan Tore Sanner has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-lower.ana.ud594e996	Let me say that the Council of State's response confirms our concern, namely that one has not investigated and has not looked at the consequences of its general changes. When the Council of State says that she has not assessed the consequences for, for example: a traffic damage that saves through annuity, she declares with full transparency that this has not been properly assessed. This should be done, because it is in the hands of individuals that the specific rules are being tested. Otherwise, let me help the Council of States in terms of the EU and the EEA territory. Governments have recognised, in response to the Higher High Level Group, that we are now getting the strictest rules across the EEA territory in terms of private pension insurance. I am surprised that the Council of State does not comment on the issue of that market of NOK 7 billion per year. years when it is saved in private pension insurance. But that's what we're going to get back to, because the right is not going to let go of this case. We're on the pension agreement, and for us, the third bone, the individual and private pension insurance, is an important part of the pension agreement, and we're going to follow that up.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-lower.ana.ud594e1004	Lars Sponheim has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-lower.ana.ud594e1007	Let me start where the representative Sanner ended, i.e. with IPA as part of the pension agreement or as part of the assumption for it. It is quite obvious to the Left, and we experience as one of the dramatic things about this that the two government parties in the Committee, the Labour Party and the Center Party, are jumping from an agreement here. Even the Central Party’s representative says that it has never been the central party’s policy to conduct a ‘bag and bag’ policy – that is when they agreed with some of us. Some of us have a certain morality when we make agreements: we stand by them. But this has never been that policy. But if it's not dramatic enough to fail partners in this way, it should at least be dramatic when there are 800,000 users out there who saw that overnight get this message. It's taking too easy on something that's as serious for people in this country as saving for their old age. Let me also conclude by saying that when the representative Lundtigen announces that there is a systemic error in the economy, I see it as such a dramatic message from the government parties that I expect there to be significant corrections here, whether related to interest rebates or other things, already in the 2007 government budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-lower.ana.ud594e1016	In the debate, the representative, Sanner, has shifted to rather large rhetorical heights by insinuating that the Council of State and I, as case spokespersons, have gone past two important themes in the resolution, namely the issue of IPA and annuity. We could read about between the lines that cork the state council or I would like to – or dare – debate that topic. I would have noticed that if the representative Sanner had taken the trouble to follow, he would have heard that one of the representatives of the Labour Party had a separate article on this topic. She illuminated our position and the Government's view in full width. This is how some people share their tasks and some people don't want to do it all. Otherwise, in tax policy, the government party is going to disappoint the representative Sanner several times, because we have different views and other priorities in these matters. That is why I believe that the representative, Mr Sanner, must live with the fact that there can be a clear level of conflict when we debate fiscal issues in the Stortinget and Odelstinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-lower.ana.ud594e1025	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 396]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-lower.ana.ud594e1038	Odelstinget shall vote, and we shall begin with the matters on the supplementary agenda.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-lower.ana.ud594e1080	It's going to go above the title of the law and promise at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-lower.ana.ud594e1090	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-lower.ana.ud594e1132	It's going to go above the title of the law and promise at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-lower.ana.ud594e1142	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation. The ostrich shall then sue the case no. 1-5 on Agenda No Thirty-four.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-lower.ana.ud594e1152	During the debate, Mr Horne presented a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: «With reference to the Basic Law § 83, Stortinget Höjesterett asks for a consideration of the following in relation to the Basic Law §§ 97 and 105:1. Would it be contrary to the Basic Law to introduce a right for parties to be able to demand the redemption of the fastener without the agreement of the landowner in relation to existing fasteners?2. Would it be contrary to the Basic Law if any sum of redemptions were to be legalised to a certain number of times the fixation fee without an individual price fixing in which other factors are also weighted?’ The proposal will be sent to Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-lower.ana.ud594e1195	The progress party has indicated that they wish to oppose it. The party of progress goes against the whole bill.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-lower.ana.ud594e1216	Here, both the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left will oppose.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-lower.ana.ud594e1238	The party of progress will go against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-lower.ana.ud594e1258	The party of progress, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left are against.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-lower.ana.ud594e1292	The progress party is against.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-lower.ana.ud594e1304	I could not vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-lower.ana.ud594e1311	It shall then be concluded that the recommendation of the Committee has been adopted by 60 votes to 17.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-lower.ana.ud594e1324	Here the Progress Party, Right and Left will go against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-lower.ana.ud594e1469	The progress party, as mentioned earlier, is opposed.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-lower.ana.ud594e1482	It has to be votered over the title of the law and promised at all. The party of progress is against this too.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-lower.ana.ud594e1496	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-lower.ana.ud594e1641	It's going to go above the title of the law and promise at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-lower.ana.ud594e1651	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-lower.ana.ud594e1800	It's going to go above the title of the law and promise at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-lower.ana.ud594e1810	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-lower.ana.ud594e2140	It's going to go above the title of the law and promise at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-lower.ana.ud594e2150	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-lower.ana.ud594e2158	A total of 12 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Gjermund Hageseter on behalf of the Progress Party, Right, Christian People's Party and Left Amendment No. 2, by Gjermund Hageseter on behalf of the Progress Party, Right and Left Proposal No. 3 and 4, by Gjermund Hageseter, on behalf of the Progress Party and Left Amendment No. 5, from the Svein Fleet on behalf of the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left Proposal No. 6, 7 and 8, by Gjermund Hagesetter, on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists, No. 9, 10 and 11, by Svein Flötten on behalf of the Right and Left Amendment No. 12, from Lars Sponheim on behalf of Left Proposal No. 6, from the Progress Party, reads: ‘The decision asks the Government to implement the necessary regulatory changes to exempt the base from tax and employer’s tax with effect from 1 January 2006.’ This proposal will be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-lower.ana.ud594e2259	Here is a proposal, no. 5, from Right, Christian People's Party and Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In the Law of 19 June 1969 No. 66 on value added tax is amended as follows:Article 5, first paragraph, paragraph 1 (g) shall be replaced by the following: charities, non-profit institutions, non-profit institutions, organisations and associations of services of the same organisation, etc. The services must be directly linked to the non-profit-making activity. The remuneration for the services must be based on full or partial cost recovery. It is a condition that external services must not exceed 5 per cent and that the services are not performed by a legal entity outside the organisation, etc. One or more units or joints within an organisation, etc. on application may be excluded from the exemption.IIThe amendment under I shall enter into force immediately with effect from 1 July 2006.’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-lower.ana.ud594e2388	The President will vote on proposal No. 8, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: «In Act No. 6 June 1975 No. 29 on taxes on the ownership of local authorities are amended as follows:Ilov on 6 June 1975 no. 29 on taxes on the ownership of municipalities are repealed.IIThe change in I enters into force immediately with effect from 1 June 2007.’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-lower.ana.ud594e2478	All paragraphs under I, with the exception of § 5 new points h, and II and III, are taken up for voting. Here the Advance Party, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party have warned that they want to oppose.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-lower.ana.ud594e2493	Then there will be a vote over Section 5 of the new letter h under I. The Progress Party and the Right have announced that they will vote against it. The Christian People's Party has warned that they will support the recommendation.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-lower.ana.ud594e2535	The progress party has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-lower.ana.ud594e2686	This will be the first time that proposal No has been voted on. 3, from the Progress Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Law No 28 February 1997 19 on social security is amended as follows:The second sentence of the second paragraph of Section 23-2 shall be replaced by the following:The French Republic after the first paragraph shall apply only if the total remuneration of the institutions or the organisation is less than 450 000 kroner, and only for pay payments up to 45000 kroner per year. I.The change in I shall enter into force immediately with effect for the 2006 year of income.» [[People's Security Act]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-lower.ana.ud594e2713	The recommendation of the Committee for the second paragraphs of II and IV will then be put to the vote. The party of progress has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-lower.ana.ud594e2725	And then I and III, and the first and third paragraphs of IV.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-lower.ana.ud594e2745	This will be the first time that proposal No has been voted on. 9, from the right and the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Law No 26 March 1999 14 on taxes on wealth and income is amended as follows:In the fourth sentence of the second paragraph of Section 6-19, deductions may be made either by up to DKK 1800 or by up to two per million of total wages and salaries paid.IIThe change in I shall enter into force immediately with effect for the 2006 year of income.» [[tax laws]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-lower.ana.ud594e2771	There will then be a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Progress Party, Right and Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Law No 26 March 1999 14 on taxes on wealth and income is amended as follows: in the first subparagraph, point (a) of the first paragraph of Section 5-14 is replaced by the following:a. [[tax laws]] The benefit is set at the difference between the value obtainable from the actual sale of the share, reduced by 20 pst, and the employee pays for the share. However, the tax-free benefit may not exceed NOK 3000 per person. year of income. IIAmendment I shall enter into force immediately with effect for the 2006 year of income.»
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-lower.ana.ud594e2800	There will then be a vote on proposal No. 4, from the Progress Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Law No 26 March 1999 14 concerning taxes on wealth and income, point (d) of the first paragraph of Article 14 to 43 is amended as follows: passenger cars, tractors, machinery, tools, instruments, furniture, etc. [[tax laws]] – 25 p.II.The change in I enters into force immediately with effect for the 2006 year of income.»
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-lower.ana.ud594e2891	There will now be a vote on proposal No. 12 from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Law No 26 March 1999 14 on taxes on wealth and income is amended as follows: the second sentence of Section 8-1, fifth paragraph, is replaced by the following:In addition to agricultural income, net revenue from forestry production may be included in the deduction basis.IIThe change in I shall enter into force immediately with effect for the 2006 year of income.» [[tax laws]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-lower.ana.ud594e2926	The Progress Party has notified that they wish to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-lower.ana.ud594e2972	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. 1, from the Advance Party, Right, Christian People's Party and Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Law No 26 March 1999 14 on taxes on wealth and income is amended as follows:The first sentence of the second paragraph of Section 10 to 41 is replaced by the following: Income and losses as referred to in the second paragraph of Section 2 to 38 are not included in the income determined under this paragraph.IIThe change under I shall enter into force immediately with effect from 12 May 2006.IIIWhen the change under I becomes effective, this condition applies to the transition between previous and new rules:Transition rule B-1Transition rule B to Law 10 December 2004 No. 77 on changes in tax law, etc. apply mutatis mutandis to companies referred to in paragraphs 10 to 40 of the Tax Act, which in the 2006 income year vests gains and realises losses as referred to in the second paragraph of Sections 10 to 41 of the Tax Act. For the purposes of application, the following point of intersection shall be taken into account instead of those set out in transitional rule B: the year of income/year 2006 replaces the year of income/year 2004 the year of income/year 2007 replaces the year of income/year 2005 the date of May 11 instead of the date of March 25 the date of May 12 instead of the date of March 26.»
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-lower.ana.ud594e3019	I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-lower.ana.ud594e3026	Britt Hildeng voted in favour, and was to vote against. The proposal of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left is therefore by 41 to 36 votes not accepted. Furthermore, it was recommended under H:
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-lower.ana.ud594e3041	The party of progress, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left have warned that they will support the recommendation subsidiaryly.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-lower.ana.ud594e3078	There is an alternative proposal from the Progress Party, proposal No. 7th@item: inlistbox The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Law No 26 March 1999 14 on taxes on wealth and income is amended as follows: in point (e) of the first paragraph of the first paragraph of Section 5-15. 1 is replaced by the following: [[tax laws]] 1. income on board ships in the form of tariff rental supplements for their own cost value of free stay on board quays, power compensation for loss-of-life risk supplements earned during navigation in the declared war zone; IIAmendment I shall enter into force immediately with effect from 1 January 2006.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-lower.ana.ud594e3139	The party of progress, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left have warned that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-lower.ana.ud594e3294	Then it says to vote over the fourth term of the fourth term under capital H.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-lower.ana.ud594e3302	Here you have the Progress Party, Right and Left notifications that they will vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-lower.ana.ud594e3314	Finally, the President will address the proposal No. 10 and 11, from the right and left. Proposal No. 10 sounds: «In Law No. 4 March 1983 No. 3 on government officials, etc. paragraph 13 is amended as follows: 6 shall be deleted; Current Section 13 No. 7 becomes new Section 13 paragraph. 6.The title of Section 13 is replaced by «Preferential right to a new position. The following transitional rule is given:1) The person entitled to a waiting wage at the date of entry into force of the amendment retains the right to a waiting wage in accordance with the rules in force at the time of the amendment.2) For workers in establishments which have been granted rights under Law No 4 March 1983. 3 on government officials, etc. § 13 nr. 6, pursuant to each provision of such special legislation, waiting wages may be allowed even after the repeal of Law No 4 March 1983. 3 on government officials, etc. § 13 nr. 6.3) The Ministry may provide that workers in named State establishments may be granted a waiting wage after the repeal of Law No 4 March 1983. 3 on government officials, etc. § 13 nr. 6, however, not so as to permit waiting wages for employees who are retired later than one year after the entry into force of the amending Act.4) Acknowledgment of waiting wages after the second and third subparagraphs may only take place if the conditions laid down in Law No 4 March 1983 No. 3 on government officials, etc. § 13 nr. (5) Detailed rules for waiting wages under this provision may be laid down by the King in the Regulation. IIThe amendments under I shall enter into force immediately with effect from 1 July 2006.’» Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘In Act No 28 July 1949 26 on the State Pension Fund is amended as follows: point (f) of the first paragraph of Section 20 is deleted. The third sentence of the second paragraph of Section 27 shall be deleted:The provision of this paragraph shall also apply to a member who has been appointed.The following transitional rules shall be given:1) Members of the National Pension Fund who, in the event of the repeal of Law No 28 July 1949, shall be replaced by members of the State Pension Fund. 26 if the State Pension Fund Paragraph 24 of the third paragraph is entitled to appeals under this provision, may receive appeals in accordance with the rules applicable in the event of revocation. 2) Law 28 July 1949 No. 26 on Statens Pensionskasse § 20, first paragraph, point (f) shall continue to apply to those who have a waiting salary under the previous provision of Law No 4 March 1983. 3 on government officials, etc. § 13 nr. 6 and for those who have left under the previous provision of the third paragraph of Section 24 even after the repeal of those provisions. IIThe amendments under I shall enter into force immediately with effect from 1 July 2006.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-lower.ana.ud594e3388	It's going to go above the title of the law and promise at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-lower.ana.ud594e3398	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-lower.ana.ud594e3541	Thus, today's map has been processed.
