ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-16.ana.ud844e71	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Solvency Horne. – Other proposals are not available, and Solvency Horne is unanimously elected President of the Stortinget meeting today. The representative, Gunvald Ludvigsen, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-16.ana.ud844e78	On behalf of Lars Sponheim, Odd Einar Dørum and myself, I would like to make suggestions on health records and privacy.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-16.ana.ud844e83	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. From the Prime Minister's office there is the following letter to Stortinget, dated 9 October 2006: ‘To Stortinget.In the Council of State on 27 October 2006, it was decided that the Council of State of Dag Terje Andersen will be in charge of the Ministry of Fisheries and the Coastal Department in addition to the Ministry of Industry and Trade on Thursday 16 November 2006 and for as long as the Council of State of Helga Pedersen is on leave.’ The referenced letter shall be annexed to the minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The President of the Senate of the Romanian National Assembly, Nicolae Vacaroiu, is visiting us officially and is present at the Gestival Gallery. It is a pleasure to wish him and follow the welcome in Stortinget. We appreciate this opportunity to strengthen the good links between Norway and Romania, a NATO ally who will soon become our partner in EEA cooperation as an EU country.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-16.ana.ud844e108	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 516]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-16.ana.ud844e124	In the absence of the case-leaders, I will only make a very brief comment. It is that debt is one of the biggest obstacles to development in a lot of countries. Money that would actually develop the country, create a better situation for its inhabitants and create a necessary development, is used instead to pay loans and interest. It is a paradox that today there are larger sums of loans and instalments from poor countries to the rich world than the rich world is giving back in total aid. If we are to achieve the UN's Millennium Goals, it is quite clear that debt has to be reduced for the poor countries. With the things we're dealing with here, let's get a little bit on our way to it. Norway took part and therefore took part in this responsibility. I would also like to use this opportunity to pay tribute to the Government for the debt cancellation they have incurred in the liquidation of the export credit financing scheme. I also want to commend the work that goes on in the G8 to bring about a more binding reduction in debt from the poor countries to the rich part of the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-16.ana.ud844e137	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 517]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-16.ana.ud844e153	No one has asked for the floor. The size should now have gone to case No. 4, which is an interpellation of the representative Lise Christoffersen to the Minister of Labour and Inclusion, but the President cannot see that the Council of State is present. [[See page 517]] The size has therefore to take a tiny break, where we are calling for the Council of State to respond. The President also assumes that the interpellant would like the Council to hear her justification for the interpellation. Then we must lubricate with patience. After a short stay,
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-16.ana.ud844e162	Since the Council of State has now arrived, somewhat delayed, the Stortinget can continue its negotiations. The size of the population is sometimes more effective in its proceedings than the Council of State has clearly calculated.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-16.ana.ud844e180	The starting point for this interpellation is the desire to focus on an important challenge for Norwegian society. Immigrants to Norway represent 8.3 pst. by the population. Although there are considerable variations between immigrants, there are still clear trends in living conditions between the immigrant population and the rest of the population. Even I live in Immigrant City No. 2 in Norway, after Oslo, with around 18 pst. immigrants, most with a non-Western background. Year-on-year data speak their clear language. The drama has scores of living conditions like other major cities, but there's a marked difference between the city areas. The typical immigrant neighbourhoods are cutting above the average of living conditions problems. Urban areas where immigrants do not live at all are far below the average for the city as a whole. It's hardly random. Without drawing the data too far, it must be allowed to conclude that this indicates that we are not yet there that we can call ourselves a good and inclusive society. Here's still a job to do. We know that living conditions and links to the labour market are closely linked. This recognition underpins the general policy of the current government to combat poverty in Norway. This is a matter of influence, if there is political will to do so. The red-green majority has declared such a will, but will is not enough. Policy action is also necessary. That is why I have promoted this interpellation to the Minister of Labour and Inclusion in order to identify what measures are planned and in place, with particular emphasis on the special challenges that our people are facing in the Norwegian labour market. I'm standing here with a newspaper headline from yesterday's local newspaper in Drammen. It says the following: ‘The half-yearly survey by the NHO on the need for labour among member enterprises shows that the demand for labour is increasing even more than previously estimated.’ The need is expected to continue to increase, including next year. NHO reports 6.6 pst. unaccompanied posts, or, in other words, there are more than 100000 unaccompanied posts. Furthermore, we can read that in one third of NHO’s member companies, lack of labour has contributed to limiting the activities of enterprises. For this reason, an increasing proportion of enterprises will use foreign labour. About one year ago, at the time of the submission of the 2006 State Budget, Minister of Finance Kristin Halvorsen presented an overview of Norway’s national wealth. Oil and fund in spite, 87 pst. our national wealth consists of the value of work. This property is therefore an extremely important task to take care of. This wealth must even be an objective to increase. The unmet labour needs of the industry should be proof enough. In addition, current and future needs for important public sector labour come. Norway needs all hands at work. Current demographic development projections indicate that this is a continuing situation. Then we can just as well establish, first as last time: Norway needs the labour and skills that are in our immigrant population. At the same time, we know that important and necessary parts of this resource and competences remain unused. More than once, we have seen notices that highly skilled immigrants do not get a job, even immigrants with the kind of skills that businesses demand. We would like to explain this situation with the lack of language skills or other deviations between actual and requested competences. That's probably true in some cases, but far from it all. Sometimes it's about the fact that the labour provider has the wrong name. He never gets the chance to show what he or she is good for. In such cases, it is mostly about attitudes in Norwegian society and lack of knowledge about our immigrant population. We're not just talking about immigrants with foreign competence, where the recognition of such education is a problem in itself. We are also talking about immigrants who have completed their education in Norway. In my hometown, Drammen, highly competent immigrants themselves have taken the initiative to establish the Norwegian multicultural value building centre. The Centre is set up to mobilise, equip and guide immigrants for innovation and business start-up at local, national and international level. The target group is the first and second generations of non-Western migrants. The results reported so far, after a short period of operation, are quite impressive. 110 persons from 35 countries, with varying backgrounds, have so far been registered at the Centre. 25 enterprises have been established to date. They're both male and female entrepreneurs. They tell about people with double master degrees, high IT skills, etc., who do not get a job in the ordinary labour market. Another example is a civil engineer with an exam from NTNU who has so far worked as a reindeer in a nursing home. Not something wrong with it itself, but everyone understands that this is the wrong use of competence, not only in relation to individual expectations, but also in relation to the needs of society and businesses themselves. The head of the center tells of the most powerful people, who are almost forced to establish their own business, but who despite many setbacks are nevertheless highly motivated to make an effort in society. This center has an ambitious but great vision: a valuable multicultural Norway. The purpose of the Centre is to ensure meaningful employment for immigrants. In addition, they have formulated yet another objective: to strengthen the reputation of immigrants as positive contributors in society. The vision and the purposes tell us a lot. They tell about unused opportunities and resources, and they tell about people who are ready to make an effort in and for Norway. There is a clear signal to the big community to use immigrants' resources. I think we should listen carefully to what they say. Norway needs the skills and labour of immigrants. But at the same time, we should not forget that it is actually a human right to contribute to the creation of value in the society in which you live, based on what you want and can. All people have the right to find their identity by contributing to this community. We're talking on the one hand about Norway's gross domestic product, but we're also talking about individual rights. Unemployment is on the way down, employment is on the way up. This applies to all groups of the population. Nevertheless, we see that we have some way to go before we have included all of them. The figures show that there are significant differences between ethnic groups in the population. But at the same time we see some points of light. We see differences between the first and second generations in employment. Employment in the first generation with a non-Western background is 20 percentage points lower than employment in the population as a whole. This applies to both men and women. The positive thing is that if we look at the descendants of non-Western immigrants, employment among men is slightly higher than among men in the population as a whole, while for women it is actually significantly higher. If we also look at the search for higher education, we see that girls with immigrant backgrounds are on the rise. The less positive is that the guys in the second generation seem to lose terrain. So there's a lot of variation about generations, gender and different nationality backgrounds. The proportion of employees says little about what I was just into, that there is a gap between the formal competence of immigrants and the jobs they are actually offered – and get. We're still wasting resources. This situation is absolutely necessary to do something about it. Norway is a multicultural society. It's a fact. There's nothing we choose. It's not something we can choose from either, and why should we? A world that is becoming smaller and a globalization of business and working life poses new challenges. Research shows that multicultural competence is a pretense that those who master the multicultural are the most successful in global competition. This applies to enterprises, municipalities, regions and nations. There are a number of examples of Norwegian companies losing contracts in the international market because they did not understand the cultural code. There is a need to work systematically at many levels – in society as a whole, among Norwegian employers in the public and private sectors and among immigrant groups themselves. Different instruments need to be used targeted at different target groups. At the same time, I think it's a point to draw larger exchangers on those immigrants who are already relatively well integrated into society, as guides and as door openers to others. In other contexts, we call this peer work and value it highly. Cooperation with volunteers who have had their own shoes on is not negligent in this respect either. The link between living and labour market relations does not apply only to immigrants. It is part of the overall fight against poverty, which is one of the main objectives of the Government. Work is the key to include too many groups The negative consequences of unemployment are many, and poverty is the most important. Unfortunately, differences in living conditions tend to follow ethnic dividing lines. In an inclusive society, social differences that follow such ethnic dividing lines will be a foreign element. Firstly, these types of dividing lines are politically unacceptable. Secondly, there are plenty of examples, including in our own part of the world, that show that increased ethnic differences are dangerous and can lead to social unrest and insecurity across society, if allowed to develop. It is therefore of interest to hear what goal the Government sets for a successful inclusion policy, both in the short and long term. When we know at the same time that work is the key both to national growth and to individual well-being, it is particularly interesting to hear how the Government sees that the authorities, including the Stortinget, can contribute in a long-term perspective to our immigrants and their descendants being linked to the labour market in line with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-16.ana.ud844e217	Let me start by regretting that I was a little late. It's a confirmation that the size is sometimes more effective than what the Storting itself plans to be, and what we think about it. The representative of Christoffersen shows that there are clear trends in living conditions between the immigrant population and the rest of the population. She points out how important work is to include immigrants. Justice, good distribution and equalization are fundamental values of the Government. The most important thing we can do to reduce social differences is to get more people working. This also applies to the immigrant population. We need a targeted policy, with a focus on several measures, to achieve that. This is done through a continuation of the working line and through a general policy change in order to create less economic differences. The working line is the Government's main step towards combating poverty and ensuring a successful inclusion policy. A more inclusive working life, with room for different people and where everyone is given the opportunity to participate according to their ability, will pay off to all parties. Norway now has a generally good labour market, low unemployment and high employment. The recorded unemployment among immigrants has fallen, from 9 pst. in the second quarter of 2005 to 7.3 pst. in the second quarter of 2006. However, unemployment among immigrants remains more than three times higher than in the rest of the population. This difference has remained stable for a long time. Among non-Western immigrants in particular, there is significantly lower employment and unemployment than in the total population. Within the group, there are wide variations, including: taking into account the country’s rural background and residence. The government aims to reduce this difference, and we will pay particular attention to increasing employment among women. The government is committed to exploiting the opportunity we now have, for a period of generally low leave, to get more people to work. Immigrants are a priority group in the field of labour market measures, which, together with the strong demand for labour, gives us the opportunity to succeed. Therefore, in the context of the Action Plan for Integration and Inclusion of the Immigrant Population, the Government presented concrete objectives in this area. These objectives include increased links with the labour market for people with a migrant background, fewer poor and better Norwegian skills for adults and children. The government also aims to increase the proportion of employees with a migrant background in key areas of the public sector, such as: child protection, law enforcement and prosecution, criminal and primary and secondary education. There is a goal of reducing the differences in health between ethnic groups. We want greater participation among the immigrant population and immigrants to have the same security on the housing market as others have. The completion of secondary education and the inclusion of several children with a migrant background in kindergarten are also among the objectives. These objectives have a short-term and long-term perspective. In order to ensure that they are realised, systematic reporting that can be followed over time is important. This way we can see if evolution is going in the right direction. The government will facilitate immigrants to contribute their resources to society as quickly as possible. In order to increase the participation of immigrants in the labour market, action on a broad scale is needed. Firstly, it is important to take measures to ensure that immigrants are given the skills appropriate to the Norwegian labour market. The introduction programme for newly arrived immigrants and the right and duty of Norwegian training are key instruments in this context. Secondly, action is important to improve the ability of working life to include immigrants and to prevent discrimination. Through the proposals for instruments that the Government is now promoting in St.meld. No 9, Work, Welfare and Inclusion, the Government draws up a long-term and universal strategy to include more people in the labour market. In the Action Plan for Integration, the Government has proposed a number of budgetary measures to increase the participation of the immigrant population in the labour market in the short term. We strengthen the right to work for the introduction programme and the efforts towards immigrants with a need for labour market measures. We strengthen and expand the Programme of Basic Competence in Work. It's set at 10 million. kr for the purpose in 2007. The Programme shall support enterprises and public enterprises that will start training in basic skills for employees or jobseekers. We're continuing the qualification program "New Chance!" by 20 million. kr. The programme is a test of paid qualifications based on the model of the introduction scheme for immigrants who, after several years in Norway, are not permanently linked to the labour market and are therefore dependent on social assistance. But the most important thing to avoid groups of immigrants getting stuck in a poverty trap is our universal arrangements. In addition, we will focus on good introduction schemes and language training for newcomers, which will make it possible to get a foothold in the workplace quickly. I also want to say briefly that we now see that there is increasing and increasing attention related to labour shortages in the Norwegian community. We see that the media are very interested in this issue, and there is a great deal of attention on the topic of labour immigration. I think it is very right that there is a great deal of attention to issues related to labour immigration. Norway needs two main strategies to meet the need for labour in the future. One is to focus on labour immigration, both on increased labour immigration and on labour immigration from non-EEA countries. The second main strategy must be to deal with the fact that today, like all other days, there are 700,000 Nordics of working age living from social benefits and not from their own work. There's a lot of reasons for that. Many of those who are among the 700,000 are not going to work. They are permanently disabled, but many of them have a job opportunity. It is clear that when the situation in the labour market is such that there is a cry for new labour, i.e. that the lack of labour is the main limiting factor in the development of business, there is reason to place very strong emphasis on at least putting into practice the skills we actually have in Norway. That is why I feel that there is now a need for a good deal from the authorities, represented by both the government and many more, and Norwegian employers. Because in such a situation as we now have in the labour market, it makes no sense that many well-qualified people with a migrant background are either unemployed or in occupations for which they are significantly overqualified. That is why I took this morning – perhaps a link to why I was a little late – an initiative within the ministry to try to set up a larger conference in the new year, where we would like to invite cooperation with the social partners, not only to raise labour immigration as a major issue in relation to today's labour market, but also to focus more strongly on the 700,000 who are in working age in Norway, but who are not in work, and not least in that context to focus on unemployment among immigrants. Emptyness is one thing. In addition, we have a large potential through the fact that the level of employment of the immigrant population is so much lower than the level of employment of the rest of the population. I will end by saying that this interpellation is an important contribution to the common responsibility we have for putting this topic on the agenda now. It's important to work with inclusion and integration all the time, but the chance of success now is much greater than it's ever been, because it's a win-win situation: it'll be good for the immigrants, it'll be good for us, the authorities, and it'll be good for the companies if we succeed.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-16.ana.ud844e253	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I think that was a positive answer. That was a positive basic view of the answer given by the Council of State. He stressed the self-interest of society, he stressed the interests of businesses, and he also stressed measures that are based on an inclusive view of human beings. Prioritisation of labour market measures was one of the things mentioned. He mentioned the inclusion action plan, and not least underlined the systematic need for overtime reporting to allow a continuous follow-up to developments and to adjust the price gradually if needed. I also think it is positive that the Council of State clearly signals that here you have the ability to have two thoughts in your head at once. One is further labour immigration to Norway. The second is the strong focus on those who are currently out of the labour market, excluded or excluded, and we know that immigrant groups represent a large proportion of them. I could have said a lot, but there are more here waiting to get into the debate. I just want to underline the need for early intervention. I also want to stress the need for asylum seekers to learn Norwegian and that they can get jobs while waiting for a decision. There is no wasted learning, and it is also useful for society, no matter how the outcome of the asylum application becomes. I also think that there is a need to stress the importance of opening up the new NAV package of measures to those on the introduction programme, so that an early start can be made. Then I would like to link a last, small comment to a new exciting action plan for inclusion, namely attempts at quotaing to the central government of workers with a migrant background. I know that many are skeptical about such an action, but I can only mention as a curiousity that in the drama, as I said, where there is almost 18 pst. Immigrants, it's in the Drammen City Council almost 18 p.p. representatives with a non-Western migrant background. And when you do it, with a limited space of 49 places, I'm absolutely convinced that you're also able to meet the goal of thousands of jobs. The reason why I choose to highlight it with quotaing is just, as I said, that it's a controversial measure, but I want to show that I myself belong to a generation of women who know that quotaing benefits. Women in politics are very much the result of quotaing. I am even of those who wore a jacket mark where it was said “sex-quoted” and I am proud of it. And I don't think anyone in this room dares to claim that we who are quotad are somewhat less qualified politicians than our male colleagues. Now it is about highly skilled immigrants in visible positions in society, as good examples for more employers, and as good examples for other immigrants. It is about making it common for immigrants to comment on important societal issues, for example: as head of a department, because it's also going to do something about the attitudes of the rest of us.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-16.ana.ud844e270	Does the Council of State want the word?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-16.ana.ud844e273	No, no, no.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-16.ana.ud844e280	There are complex things we discuss in many ways when we talk about integrating and including the immigrant population. There are many reasons why people come to Norway, and those who come are in different conditions in terms of health, education, competence and cultural background. We know, as the Council of State has said, that the unemployment of immigrants is three times as high as that of the Nordics, and the unemployment rate is slower in this group than in the Nordics. It is well with immigrants in general as with us nordics, that if we are placed in a passive situation, where one passively receives social security and benefits, it leads to inaction and to the removal of ourselves from the labour market, and it makes it harder to get back to work. That is why I believe it is important to quickly come in with measures that can qualify new entrants to work in Norway. Therefore, language training in the reception of asylum becomes a very important issue for integration into the labour market, I think. It is that as a society we must contribute to the preparation of immigrants for Norwegian working life. Of course, in very many cases there may be problems with the health status of refugees coming to Norway, but for the vast majority of them, the problems are about language and competence, either acquiring skills, basic skills in order to be able to participate in Norwegian working life, or gaining recognition of the competence they already have from their country of origin. It is also the case that we in Norway must have attitudes to this. And we know that attitudes among both employers and employees contribute to the exclusion of some. We have heard of immigrants who are highly skilled, with Norwegian education, and who should not have had problems getting work, immigrants who have been rejected by the labour market time and time again, but who have then submitted an application signed with other names, and then there has been no problem getting a job. This suggests that we have a problem with attitudes. There may also be direct xenophobic attitudes, but perhaps the biggest obstacle, I think, in Norwegian companies today is uncertainty: how can this work with foreign-language, or with other cultures, in our company? On Monday I visited a small company in Bergen, Brøderne Lohne Silverwarefabrik, which has 26 employees in the production, six of them with a migrant background. It was quite easy to listen to the experience of both employees, management and trust leaders in this company, where the Executive Director, Jon Atle Lohne, could say that this is going well, that is.There have been barriers, and there are barriers, which are about culture, which are partly about language, but you have a positive attitude that this should go on. And it's going well, which is also confirmed by trustees in the company, and which the employees with migrant background could confirm. What is important, which both the trustee, Arnstein Breek, and the managing director, Jon Atle Lohne, could confirm, is that they have the language in place when they arrive. The language is alpha and omega to be able to cooperate with each other as colleagues. The employer also stressed that it was important that these had a network around them, in the form of family or in the form that they had another stable environment around them. There is also an assessment that is often made by Norwegian employees. What you do at the Lohne Silverware Factory is to focus on the resources these people represent for the company, and the opportunities that lie there, to a greater extent than focusing on the problems, because they have seen that these are completely affordable problems. What I would like to contribute to this debate is to focus on those are the opportunities we have, on which we should focus. I might sometimes have a feeling that we're making things too complicated when we're talking about foreign culture, and when we're talking about the problems of different religions, etc. In most cases, it turns out that these problems are overcome by simple, straightforward gripping. And the action plan now presented by the Government focuses on the essentials: what goes on in language, on competence and on qualification.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-16.ana.ud844e299	First, I would like to commend the representative Christoffersen for addressing an issue that is of great importance to all those who are outside the labour market. Unfortunately, there are too many people who have been out of the labour market for some reason, and even worse – it seems to remain outside. In addition to immigrants, we see that more and more beneficiaries of social assistance go on long-term unemployment without getting a job. Unfortunately, we also see that more and more people are receiving disability benefits. What is most disturbing, however, is the sharp increase in young men who go directly from school to disability, and women who get dissatisfied and do not go back to work after they have had a child. I look forward to the Council of State coming back to Stortinget with immediate action, as we have requested in a letter, to reverse this development. In addition, we have a large reserve of labour in people with some handicap, people with a high working capacity whose conditions are made right for them. This shows that we have far failed in the design of legislation that both facilitates participation in the labour market and not least demands participation. All the inhabitants of this country who are able to do so have an obligation to support themselves and their own. Therefore, strict requirements must be imposed on persons to obtain employment. It shall not be easy to receive unemployment benefits. Strict demands must be made for each individual to actively seek work and for him/her to learn how the labour market works. This is an important entrance to the area that the interpellant picks up. Participation in the labour market is particularly important for participation in the social community. The workplace is perhaps the most remote area to bring people from other cultures into contact with ethnic Nordics. But it demands that those who are applying for a job know the language in an acceptable way. Unfortunately, this is not always the case. Too few have learned Norwegian, and there are clear differences between those who are good in Norwegian and those who have not learned the language properly. Worse for women. It has puzzled me many times that SV and the Workers' Party, who like to present themselves as large women's champions, have not addressed the problem of all the women and children who go home and do not learn Norwegian. How are they to be integrated and able to participate in the social life that we ethnic Northmen consider a matter of course? Unfortunately, this is one of several key areas where Norwegian integration policy has failed. Training in Norwegian should be subject to much stricter requirements than is currently the case. As I said at the outset, any jobseeker – both ethnic nor foreign-cultural – has a duty to face up to a situation where they depend on themselves and theirs without being burdened by taxpayers. It is my claim that, through a complicated set of rules, an innumerable number of special arrangements and a lack of claims, the majority in this room have done many with a migrant background a bear service. Immigrants from Somalia form a large group in Norway and may be the largest group of unemployed. As several of us saw in a TV 2 lookup here by day, it turns out that Somalis who have lived in the Midwest of the United States are fully integrated. There is no difference between immigrants and the local population in finding work. There were no more residents who had work than there were Somalis. The explanation they had themselves was as simple as it was required for them, and that there were no sewn cushions under their arms – they had to take care of themselves. It was evident that they were pleased that they had been required to do so, and that they were treated in the same way as the residents and were not given any special advantages. They also said that it was a matter of course that they had to learn the language. Several of them had relatives in Norway and knew about the conditions here. They said right away that it was much worse to get to work in Norway than in the United States. The reason was that they are not required in Norway. This is just one example of a misunderstanding of genius leading the wrong way. It also shows that Norway needs to impose much stricter requirements on Norwegian training than is the case today. Coming to Norway as an immigrant and a port of some kind of social security is de motivating and passivating. It's, as I said, my claim that work is the best way to be integrated. At a workplace, you hit the North, you get a social, Norwegian circle, and you understand Norwegian society in a much better way. At the same time, it gives us a satisfaction to support themselves and theirs, as it gives us ethnic Nordics. To achieve this, it depends on being able to integrate Norwegian and wanting to integrate into Norwegian society.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-16.ana.ud844e322	I would first like to say that I am very pleased that Svendsen of the Progress Party draws up the example of Somalis who have come to Norway, and Somalis who live in the United States, in relation to the possibility of integration. It gives a clear – and what I think is right – picture, that is the way in which countries accept refugees, asylum seekers and immigrants, which is essential for the success of integration work, and not the background, the cultural conditions, of those who come. In previous debates of this kind, the Progress Party has often highlighted the cultural differences between the different groups as a cause for a lack of integration. I now feel that the party has a different view of this, and I am very pleased about that. St.meld. No 49 for 2003-2004, on diversity through integration and participation, is in many ways a common cross-political basis for integration and diversity policy. In that Communication and in its follow-up, a number of measures were proposed and launched that have now been effective for some time. In the State budget of the year, the Government has presented an action plan of 28 measures affecting different ministries. 22 of these are a follow-up to the measures taken by the previous government, and there are also some new measures. It's very positive that there's a line in this work, because I think that's crucial to the ability to succeed. But as the stasis thread said in its contribution, it is also essential that you have a systematic reporting and follow up the same objectives over time. In the wholesale communication on inclusion and participation, concrete measurable targets were set in relation to work. Of course, an important objective is participation in the labour market, of which many of the speakers have spoken earlier in the debate. That's not the only goal. One might say that the goal is participation and living conditions, but it is also connection and belonging. These two overall objectives are closely linked. In the main message, they were divided into two groups: Targets for adult immigrants, i.e. those coming to Norway at adult age, and targets for children growing up in Norway but with migrant backgrounds. For adult immigrants, five specific objectives were set, in relation to participation and living conditions, in relation to connection and belonging, and for children growing up in Norway, four specific objectives were set, in relation to participation and living conditions and in relation to connection and belonging. As far as the Council of State's posts are concerned, it is a little unclear to me whether the new government intends to report annually to the Storting in relation to the same objectives, as was taken into account during Storting's treatment of St.meld. No 49. I believe it is essential that an independent of changing political conditions and governments report in relation to the same objectives, possibly with additional targets, so that over time we can see whether we can succeed in the actions that we have taken in relation to concrete, measurable objectives. I hope that the Council of State will later consider whether it intends to follow up on the same concrete objectives. Then we have the introduction system. Sometimes in this debate, a little bit of an impression that it's still just cutting and going, but it doesn't. A number of measures have been taken. There is a big difference in the way people who come to Norway are received today, and the way they were received just a few years ago. This means that there will be a big difference between the speed of integration for those who come to Norway today and those who came to Norway just a few years ago. For the introduction system, which has so far been a success, over half is 53 pst. – by a really small group – at work or started training after the end of the programme. It is obvious that a substantial part of this is due to the need for Norwegian training, the requirement for participation, and not least the possibility of getting an introduction into Norwegian society and work. If, through this debate, it can be agreed that the way Norway accepts immigrants, asylum seekers and refugees is essential for success, I think we can look positively at the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-16.ana.ud844e335	Let me start with a little heart attack. It's in the language of the open room, the language we use about these kinds of things. The language we're using is not an inclusive language. Let me give you an example: we talk about people with a different cultural background than ourselves as aliens. It is quite obvious that if we want an active inclusion policy, ‘non-cultural’ is not a good starting point. Being aware of language and conceptual usage in open spaces is a terrible thing about how politics becomes, and how reality becomes. We really don't have any other way of defining our reality than through language and conceptual usage. That's why it's awfully important that we are aware of and have an active relationship with the language, and that we don't use a language that itself is exclusive. We're developing a new subclass in this country, and it's pretty serious. It's a new subclass that consists mainly of people with immigrant backgrounds. It consists of people without work, and it consists of people who are recruited into the lowest paid professions in our society. Both those who are unemployed and those who get the lowest paid jobs in our society, the immigrant population is overrepresented. This gives cause for concern. In the short term, the Government has presented an action plan with many points. It says a lot of good that will definitely work in the short term. But our long-term challenges vis-à-vis immigrants are on education. It is quite obvious that this has a great deal to do with education and education policy. Young people with a migrant background opt out of high school to a much higher extent than ethnic Norwegian children do. This applies in particular to vocational training and practical subjects. There we see that those with immigrant backgrounds are overrepresented in relation to opting out of education – what we used to call that someone dropped out or disappeared out of our education system. There we may have the very greatest challenge — how to manage to include children and young people with migrant backgrounds and ensure that they take education and complete education to the same degree as ethnic Norwegians. I would assume that it is quite obvious that language training – Norwegian training – is absolutely central. However, Norwegian training cannot be seen independently of native language training. There is a link between mother tongue training and Norwegian training. If we have a good education offer and a good training offer in mother tongues, it is also a strength in learning Norwegian. There is a close link between the ability to learn Norwegian in a good way and good mother tongue training. In our eagerness for immigrants to learn Norwegian, we must not forget that we must have a good mother tongue training offer as well. It has something to do with recognition. We must have an education system that is such that immigrants can recognize themselves and experience that this concerns them. There is native language training and adapted training it very central. That's where we have to put the bump, and that's where we have to put the resources in the future. We can go even further back, even earlier in growth. A genuine childcare facility, free core time for all children, will be central to strengthening maternal language training. Finally, let me continue my education. It's on our system for the recognition of foreign education. We tend to be ourselves enough in this country. When it comes to recognizing education that people have from abroad, we have great challenges. That's where we should get a grip. It should be easy to take action to facilitate the recognition of foreign education. It would mean a lot to many immigrants who came here with a good educational background.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-16.ana.ud844e350	The interpellant addresses a very topical issue. At a time when Norway needs labour, it is a major problem that unemployment among immigrants is more than three times higher than in the rest of the population. The exclusion of some groups from the labour market can contribute to unrest and conflict. The Christian People's Party wanted the inclusion of immigrants in the labour market to be a new component of the IA Agreement, as we know that the main way of integration is through working life. We also wanted municipal responsibility for the integration of refugees and immigrants to be included in the minimum requirement of the new labour and welfare management. The government went against this, but I am glad that several municipalities have voluntarily chosen such a solution, which leads to immigrants like other users getting an overall offer in one place. Christian People's Party has also promoted a Document No. Eight proposals with seven concrete measures to ensure equal opportunities for all residents of Norway. We proposed, among other things: increasing the use of wage subsidies for employers, as we know that this scheme works well. Persons qualified for work in Norway experience being excluded from the labour market. In fact, many people have a high level of education and a high level of competence. This qualified group should be able to offer a grant to the employer in the first year if the enterprise chooses to invest in them. We know from experience that the majority of those given an opportunity to show what they can get further work, either in the same company or elsewhere, as a result of recommendations from the place where they first worked. This month there was a thought-provoking article in the Agderpost about an immigrant who did not get an apprenticeship in the South, despite good Norwegian knowledge and excellent exam papers. He is not an outstanding example. Too many people with a migrant background are being excluded from the labour market. While the employer should, of course, hire the most skilled jobseeker when filling job vacancies, if some applications only end up in waste because the applicant has a migrant background, the enterprise may become liable. Discrimination on grounds of skin colour or ethnic origin is prohibited in Norway. The new Action Plan for Integration and Inclusion states: ‘All employers, both state, municipal and private, should have a conscious and active recruitment policy towards persons with a migrant background and counter all forms of direct and indirect discrimination.’ This is a goal supported by the Christian People's Party. Unfortunately, there is a long way to go before the target is reached. According to the latest edition of Velferd, interviews with more than a thousand business leaders have shown that only one hundred have put in place specific measures to increase recruitment for this group. Only one of the three could imagine writing in the job advertisement that non-Western immigrants are encouraged to apply. This is thought - provoking and serious. Such attitudes as the magazine Velferd documents are discriminatory and show how important it is for immigrants to have early work and not to be sorted out until they have had the opportunity to present themselves and their qualifications at all. In the Action Plan, the Government will identify the extent of discrimination in the housing market. It is important, but I would recommend that the Government also monitor the discrimination that occurs on the labour market, as we lack good knowledge of the scope of this. It is important that we increase the appropriations for labour market measures, expand adult training provision and improve Norwegian training for those lacking such qualifications. The Christian People's Party believes that these are good instruments. If we are to achieve the goal of a labour market with a place for everyone, where everyone has equal opportunities and rights, everyone has to take social responsibility. The public sector must set a good example of new employment and invite immigrants to interview. I'm convinced that prejudice is much of the reason that unemployment among immigrants is three times as high as in the rest of the population. This is a challenge for all of us.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-16.ana.ud844e382	I'm going to touch something that might shine like a small part of the area that's up for discussion. Temporary work permits are granted to asylum seekers in Norway. Yesterday during the oral Question Time, the Chairman of the Advance Party was concerned about why asylum seekers were not immediately withdrawn from the work permit if they were not granted a residence permit. That might be a reasonable question. Yesterday, in Rome’s magazine, the focus was on another aspect that makes the work permit not real because of formal and practical obstacles to asylum seekers meeting in the Norwegian community. As the magazine provides information, banks are warned by the authorities not to give bank accounts to immigrants without a permanent residence permit and identification document with a personal number. Employers say that without a bank account they cannot make regular pay payments. An employer who opted for labour in Eastern European newspapers to cover bidding services said it was inappropriate to hire people to whom a non-ordinary salary payment could not be made. Just informing a potential employer that someone does not have something as common as a bank account creates – I register – barriers for an asylum seeker to be considered as an interesting jobseeker. The asylum reception in Skedsmo wants to do something about this. They set up the ‘Ready to work’ programme – now that we are receiving Norwegian training, they can probably change their names after Christmas – and aim to help asylum seekers get into work. They say they should create bank accounts in the name of the recipient, so that the employer gets the account number required by the employee. Wages can then be paid in the usual way, but with the reception as an intermediary between the employer and the asylum seeker, the management of the beneficiary says. That's good. But one might ask, does it need to be like this? Some may feel that it is unwise to give asylum seekers who are considered for — or have been refused — the opportunity to apply for permanent residence, to integrate into Norwegian society through work and participation in our daily lives. I disagree with those who are afraid of it, and I think the most unwise thing we can do is to have people walking inactive in excitement and nervously waiting for their future destiny. I have met some of them, and there are no people who want to change their roles. Therefore, there is reason to be very happy that we are now getting Norwegian education back in our asylum recipients. There will probably be a part that needs to get out of the country with some Norwegian knowledge they do not get direct benefit from, but it is much less damaging than it is that it goes year and day before people we require are to be integrated into Norwegian social and work life, having the opportunity to learn the most important thing to achieve integration, which is language – as many have underlined today. The interpellant indicates that labour market links are of great importance to the individual’s ability to participate, self-realise and support. That's exactly right, and we want it to be like this. Linking to the labour market is therefore also important for asylum seekers who are waiting for their case to be dealt with. If we can dampen the frustration and uncertainty that arise in this waiting period through activity and participation in the labour market, we are helping both individuals and society to a great extent. The word ‘unemployment is the root of all evil’ is probably better for asylum seekers than for most of us. That is why I hope that there will also be a searchlight on this tab of a problem issue. Once we have said that it is important for asylum seekers to be able to participate in the labour market, it is also important that we actually facilitate the situation for them to do so and that it is perceived as a handshake for them. But I think that would be of great benefit to the communities in which they live, and to society in general, both in relation to the work being done, and in relation to the integration achieved.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-16.ana.ud844e397	Norway is a multicultural society, and very much has been successful in integrating immigrants. We in the Left believe it is important to focus on the fact that the vast majority of immigrants are law-abiding people who want to work and be integrated into Norwegian society. However, there is no doubt that we have a number of challenges. Lack of integration has led to some groups now more or less outside society. This opens up new social classes, poverty and increased crime. Today, too many immigrants are overrepresented among the unemployed, among criminals and among the weakest students. We see this in the Left as a strong warning about the need for a better integration policy. That being said, it is important to stress that it is impossible to generalise immigrants. You can't, you shouldn't, you shouldn't, you don't, you don't, you don't, you don't, you don't, you don't, you don't, you don't, you don't, you don't, you don't, you don't, you don't, you don't, you don't, you don't, you don't, you don't, you don't, you don't, you don't, you don't, you don't, you don't, you don't, you don't, you don't, you don't, you don't, you don't, you don't, you don't, you don't, you don't. The climate of debate set by political leaders can be crucial if we are to succeed in integration or if the conflicts are to be intensified instead. The left will clarify that there are considerable differences between immigrants, especially between those who have lived here for a while and those who have just come to Norway. Asylum seekers and refugees may have experience and experiences that are very demanding, and they may need treatment and follow-up both physically and mentally. At the same time, most people do a very good job for society. But the numbers are clear. Too many people, however, are out of work and tell of difficulties in accessing the labour market. Several awareness campaigns aimed at employers need to be launched. Studies have revealed distrust and xenophobia among many employers. Discrimination on the basis of faith and culture — and where one comes from — cannot be tolerated, even in the form of pass-by. The left, however, has faith that some of this will change in not too long. We are going to see a new generation of employers who have gone to school with immigrants and who thus have different attitudes to today's leaders. Connecting obligations to rights has always been important to the Left. The person who is mature and healthy is responsible for caring for himself and his family. Of course, this also applies to immigrants. Work is the key to taking power over your own life and developing rights in the welfare community, which is based on a social contract: Do your duty and demand your right. This understanding must be given to new countrymen to a far greater extent than what we have now done. Today, it's enough that someone sees the social security system as being shy. They're from the start hanging in support addiction and outreach. It is also a fact that the Norwegian labour market is today organised for those on the inside. The rules of labour law provide good protection for the person in employment but constitute an obstacle to the outside person. Employers have doubts about ‘taking the chance’ of employing a person with a migrant background. If it does not work, the employer will be stuck with him after six months. At cuttings, the shortest person who has worked must go — which is usually new Nordics or young people. Labour law rules need to be reformed to encourage flexibility and susceptibility. Today's fixation on a single form of employment – the permanent – automatically pushes people out of permanent employment, in hopelessly weak positions. The left believes that a more flexible system that also opens up temporary employment can help to give people with a migrant background access to work. In particular, the way into working life is through three gateways: education, work experience and language skills. Demands for Norwegian jobs, together with long waiting times for offers, are stuck in the social security traps. The left therefore believes that greater flexibility is needed in Norwegian education. The left says that those who are healthy should not live on contributions, but we are of course aware that it is not always easy to determine who is healthy and who is sick. In the longer term, it is in everyone's interest to break the social welfare culture. Norway is best when we act real, no matter what our name is, where we live and what we look like. Being real is that you have a real chance of finding a job. The real thing is that in the growing-up phase, children and young people get the best chance of doing well. The inclusion includes all of us, no matter who we are and what we are. We're doing the same thing. We're not taking any special advantage, but we're being taken seriously no matter who we are.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-16.ana.ud844e423	The most serious thing about unemployment among minority groups is that large youth groups, at least among certain minorities, are now leaving the unemployed. It's related to the dropout from high school. It is alarming that studies carried out both by the previous government when it made its big city announcement and by a working group of State Council Djupedal set up last year show that in some minority groups, the drop-out from high school may be quite up to 60 pst. in the case of who has completed after five years. It's especially boys who end up in high school. The girls in the minority groups have proved to be better at following up their education. The follow-up services related to Reform 94 have no capacity in areas where these minority groups are highly represented, to deal with those who end up in higher education, and to provide them with a sufficient range of services. As a result, many of those who go uneducated — today there are not many janitorial jobs, there are not many opportunities to enter the labour market in a more direct way than by having a solid education — are at risk of recruitment to communities, drug abuse and long-term unemployment, for many, many years. That lane is the most serious, in my opinion, and something you have to attack when discussing unemployment in minority groups. The reasons why many end up in high school and do not get through are, first of all, that many of these are practical orientated, neat with their hands, wise in a practical way and want apprenticeship space. On average, about half of those who have applied for apprenticeship have now gained apprenticeship space throughout the country. It leads to a failure when they don't get beyond what they want. Many of these are bad in Norwegian. If it turns out they're still poor in Norwegian in high school, there's no training there, so you just keep falling out — and you've really done it throughout school. This goes all the way back to Norwegian kindergarten training. In connection with the experiment launched by the Minister of Labour and Inclusion in Stovner Town with Norwegian in kindergartens, free core time three to four hours to learn Norwegian, a meeting has been held and received, 400 new children who were previously unknown, because they did not apply for kindergarten at all. We get to hope that when you start from there, with a basic effort that must start from kindergarten age, it's the possibility of getting rid of it. This is related to homework at school, and it is related to practical choice in high school, which is too little at present. The basic effort in relation to the unemployment that I am afraid can only develop in a negative direction in some of these youth groups must start from the kindergarten age of. There needs to be more apprenticeships, and there needs to be an assessment of changes in Reform 94. For those who are so tired that the option is to stop, there must be more opportunities to get directly into practical training, be on something, move on, instead of just getting into an empty space. I would like to encourage the Minister of Labour and Inclusion to focus in particular on unemployment among minority young people, and in particular those minority groups – because there are considerable differences between them – where this is a major problem. I would like to encourage cooperation with the Minister of Education on a great deal of effort in this area, and, if necessary, to address changes in Reform 94 in order to better prevent high school drop-outs.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-16.ana.ud844e434	In the debate on integration policy, about the problem that too many immigrants unfortunately do not participate in the labour market, one has, I think, chosen to ignore a very fundamental issue. I'll allow myself to make a statement. My claim is as follows: The reason why integration does not work well in Norwegian society is a fundamental failure, a fundamental flaw in the social democratic social structure, the way in which society has been chosen to be built up, the way in which social democracy has been organised. Instead of having an approach to immigrants where they are seen as individuals, individuals who can contribute, to which one can take seriously and make demands, a social system based on public schemes, support and welfare has been chosen in relation to public benefits. But in that system one has forgotten the essential thing: to demand people to get work, to get their own out – to be able to take care of themselves and their own. It is not the fault of immigrants that there is a high level of unemployment among that group. It is the politicians who have created a system in which they have chosen to focus on economic rights, special arrangements, whether we are talking about free core time in kindergartens or for example. talks about allowances arrangements, which the Government is now involved in. They have chosen to do so instead of giving the individual the respect that he or she deserves, namely, by demanding that you obtain work and your own livelihood. Government grants are passivating. If you have that as a starting point, you also have the right angle of incidence in relation to how to solve the integration problem. But instead one chooses to signal a completely wrong direction when it comes to establishing quotas in the labour market. I think, once again, that the government, by saying that we have to quota immigrants, sends a signal that helps to make them poor, because at the same time it is said that we need special arrangements for them to fit into the labour market. Cultural barriers have been mentioned. It is clear that there are cultural barriers for people who come from cultures that stand very far away from us! Remote cultural, we're talking about, even though SV doesn't like the use of language. It's a challenge. A few days ago, you could read in the paper about two-three immigrants who lost their job because they did not work. They demanded to take breaks to pray for prayers while they were standing along a band. It is clear that the employer cannot accept it. This type of barrier must be removed when you choose to live in Norway. One must choose to adapt to the Norwegian society and choose to adapt to the Norwegian labour market as it works, in order to be successful in the Norwegian labour market. It's a matter of course, and it should be at the bottom. Then I'm glad that many people here talk about Norwegian as a fundamental key. Learning Norwegian and a few Norwegian skills is clearly a key to success in Norway. Clearly, it is. But you don't have to go back many years in time to see that the Progress Party was almost disfellowshiped because we demanded that immigrants learn Norwegian. There's at least the other games that got the point. The hope is that the other parties also understand the point when it comes to what is very important, namely that the key to integration has something to do with making demands for people, taking people seriously and solemnly — treating them properly by making demands, and not choosing to meet all immigrants coming to Norway, with government grants and support schemes.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-16.ana.ud844e445	In my view, the interpellant travels one of the three truly great value debates we have for the future. One debate is about climate and future living conditions on earth. The second debate is about poverty and distribution. The third debate is about inclusion and how we are going to manage to live together peacefully and well in a world where borders and distances are being built down and gone. The alternative to doing the inclusion job is building new walls, and the hostility is growing. It is an option that SV strongly disagrees with and does not feel any security. That is why this debate is very important. The key to integration and inclusion is SV thinking that we have a positive starting point, namely that we are initially saying: welcome here. If we start by saying welcome here, as some other countries do, we also have a completely different starting point for understanding the demands and necessities needed to succeed in the Norwegian society, among other things. in the case of language. I think that's where SV and the Progress Party are separating the sharpest layers, because in the Progress Party you're most concerned about describing this as a problem in itself, that it's scary that people move on and come here, and that it's so difficult that we have to show a whip first so that it feels a little less attractive to come to Norway. I am quite happy when I travel around the world and discover that people have actually heard about Norway and could imagine coming here. I think it is a great advantage, and I actually want more people to come. Then it is important that we are aware of the diversity of the immigrant population. First of all, they are far more different than we are, sail if we are very different. It sometimes creates problems, even between us in this country, that we have some cultural characteristics in different parts of the country. But the immigrants are very diverse, and they are very diverse in knowledge, competence and education as well. That's why it's going to be talking about this as one problem in a way very wrong. That's why we have to have a very differentiated policy, and a policy that balances the differences that actually exist in terms of opportunities. That's why there must be different measures for different people, in order to create equality. There is also a clear distinction between the Progress Party and the SV layer – to a high degree. Then it is also a little strange to hear when the representative Svendsen from the Progress Party is pointing the index finger at SV in relation to women and integration. Yes, SV has fought in court also for those who are family reunited to receive Norwegian training. It's very important for the women. It's very important, because most women become family reunions. We have fought to get kindergartens in place – in that case we have had a good cooperation with the Progress Party. This has also been one of our main points when we have been critical of the cash support, because the cash support is such a great economic reward for many immigrant families and women that it is not profitable for them to go out to work. SV has been an avid champion of action for women, e.g. Quo Vadis in Oslo, an action aimed at women who are mainly illiterate – an action that is very successful and that works very well. I can also mention a number of other measures. So that accusation is completely unjustified. I believe that the Progress Party should end with this. SV believes that it is a great advantage for Norway that a large part of our population is in fact bilingual. SV is an avid champion for people to learn Norwegian. That is why we have also fought for Norwegian training on asylum recipients. We say, if you need to apply for asylum in Norway, it's fine, but start learning Norwegian right away – it's necessary! But when we're talking about native language training, it's also very important that we don't talk about this as if it's a problem. It's an advantage for people to know two languages. Many of the great languages in the world today are languages that are very foreign to the North, but they are going to be incredibly important in the future. The fact that we then have parts of the population who master these languages is a great advantage for Norway. But we also have to talk about it as an advantage and not as a problem that someone actually keeps their mother tongue.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-16.ana.ud844e462	I would like to thank the interpellant for raising a very important question. I think everyone who has taken part in the debate has said that, and I'm just repeating it. First of all, I think this is about the fact that, in general, this is a very important ethical value issue. For me, and also for my father who lost his job a few years ago, it's like that. It was okay, and he got a new job, but I just saw the despair in his face when he lost that job. I saw what it does to a human being to walk around in a society without having anything to do with every day. It's about identity, and it's about integrity. Therefore, it is very regrettable that we are in a situation where there are many people, especially in the area we are now discussing, who are out of work. A few months ago – it was probably the 100th episode in the case of people I've met who tell me such a story – there was a young gentleman in The Drama who told me that he was a trained electrical engineer. He had in the course of the year applied for a dozen jobs in a sector where there is clearly a need for more engineers, without succeeding in any of the cases. I think many in this room have heard similar stories or met these people. I am then surprised when the representative Amundsen of the Progress Party believes that we should make further demands on these people. I fully agree that demands must be made. Of course, demands must be made. But what are his requirements for people who are actively in line, who are actively applying for jobs – and who are getting no on time? What kind of penalties are to be applied to these people? I wonder about that. I also ask myself this question: Is it so that the Progress Party believes that people who come to Norway, who have a different native language and who try to learn Norwegian, will contribute on their own to teaching Norwegian to the children of the family without the help of the public community? I don't mean it. That's why I'm very pleased with the trial project on free core time in kindergarten, and that we're going to get everyone a nursery place. I'm glad that society is going to provide people who need our help to learn Norwegian. Of course, it's the parents' responsibility. But it is then too much demanded that a person who does not control Norwegian himself should also be responsible for teaching his children this on his own. I wonder what it means to claim, and what kind of penalties you can imagine if the public or community are not at all going to have a role to play in this. I would like an answer to that question. So to the question itself, and it's about the measures that I think need to be discussed. I'm just going to take some little suggestions that I think might make it go in the right direction. Firstly, I fully agree with the representative, Mr Reikvam, that those of us who have a voice in the public debate should be very careful about what kind of words we use. I think inclusion is a good word. It's actually a discussion of whether integration is a good word. Not everyone thinks it's the best word. So using the word inclusion and stopping calling people alien or remote cultural is a constructive way to start. So until that Rikvam also takes up, which is about the recognition of education. In my previous work, when I was a civil worker in Norwegian Public Aid, I met a person who had a girlfriend who was from Spain. He had psychology education from a university in Madrid. They were going to get married. He was going to move to Norway and get this education approved here. So he had an ethnic Norwegian girlfriend, who stood on a week after week, and it stayed after every month after month. Finally, it was two years to get through the whole of this mill we've started in Norway, in order to pass here in Norway a psychological education from one of Europe's leading universities. Then I can imagine how having an education from more pig-grown strokes, as the Progress Party has referred to, «removable cultural» strokes is well the right word in the terminology of the Progress Party – is experienced here in Norway. I strongly urge the Council of State to consult on how we can simplify and improve this system, so that we can speed up the recognition of education from elsewhere in the world and use their skills in Norway. Another measure that I would like to see able to achieve – we have proposed it in Drammen, but we have not received a majority for it, so it is possible that we have to try somewhere else first – is a trial project to get anonymous application procedures, for example. within the public domain. I think it's a lot about barriers. It's about attitudes, it's about ethics, it's about prejudice, unconscious or conscious, about people with a non-Norwegian name like Ola, or Torgeir, for that matter, unconscious or conscious, becoming starved in the process. A project where we could test this out – where you could present what you stand for, what skills you have, what qualifications you have, without necessarily giving your name – I think I could help more people get the opportunity to get in position and come to the interview, show who you are, show that you are in control of Norwegian, show that you are a good type despite the fact that your name is Ali or Khalid or what it might be. These are two small measures that I think can be included and make this ball roll a little faster, because it is going too slowly today. I hope we can agree on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-16.ana.ud844e492	In this case, there is agreement on the objective: a labour market with room for all. It is serious that unemployment among people with a migrant background in Norway is still more than three times higher than in the general population. It is serious that this has been stable for a long time. If we look at some non-Western immigrant groups, the difference is even larger. It shows that action is necessary to create equal opportunities for work. An MMI survey shows that eight out of ten business leaders do not have a diversity objective by employing people with different ethnic backgrounds. This means that the Government must have an active policy to promote not only work but also inclusion in working life. The Christian People's Party is in favour of the Government's Plan of Action for the Integration and Inclusion of the Immigrant Population, as in particular. intends to enable people with a migrant background to participate in the labour market. The Christian People's Party supports the actions outlined in the action plan, many of which are a follow-up or a continuation of actions undertaken under the Bondevik II regime. In some areas, the Christian People's Party will go even further than the Government. We have to start by asking the question: why is unemployment much higher among immigrants? There are many answers. Firstly, it is about language training and competence. What gets challenging and exciting in the future is whether we get a transition from the introduction system to the regular education system in Norway for those who need it. Furthermore, it is about the motivation of the individual immigrants. And last, but perhaps most, this is about immigrants being discriminated against. They do not have access to work on an equal footing with Nordics with the same qualifications. In this respect, the Christian People's Party believes that we should have a much more offensive policy towards employers both in the public and private sectors. We will extend the payroll subsidy scheme. Wages and salaries are paid to persons with a minority background and to others who are striving to enter the labour market, to work training and to references from managers and colleagues. Another offensive step is to legislate a so-called obligation of activity under the Discrimination Act. The Equality Act requires enterprises to work for equality. Undertakings required by law to draw up an annual report shall state in the annual report the actual status of equality in the activity. In addition, measures planned to promote gender equality and to prevent discrimination contrary to the Equality Act shall be set out. The Christian People's Party believes that a similar obligation of activity should be included in the Discrimination Act. In our view, this will help businesses to have to act actively on the extent to which people with a minority background are employed in their businesses, to develop employment policy plans and objectives in order to prevent discrimination and promote equality. The Christian People's Party has previously proposed that the inclusion of immigrants in working life should have been a new component of the IA agreement. Unfortunately, this was not the case. We know that the way to participation and inclusion is through work and language skills. This is precisely why it is important to mobilise social partners as well. I therefore hope that the strong focus on reduced sick leave does not override the focus on inclusion in working life. I heard a few days ago about a project in one of our neighbouring countries. It was assumed that applicants for jobs submitted applications and CVs without name, age and gender – this in order for more women, older people and more immigrants to have a chance to be added. Perhaps such a project would also have been carried out here in Norway? Finally, I think it is right that scepticism against the stranger can only be overcome by practical, positive experiences. That's where we are now. Let people with a minority background gain this experience and show what a great resource they are for our country.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-16.ana.ud844e526	As the last speaker in the debate before the Council of State, I would like to thank everyone who has contributed to the debate. I noticed what André N. Skkelstad stressed, the importance that we do not make immigrants poor as a group, that much of it is about what kind of device the debate on the inclusion of immigrants, asylum seekers and refugees gets, and that we politicians have a great responsibility for the way the debate is organised. I think it is great that today's debate has had a positive sign. It is a clear signal to the public. Although the media excels in their absence in important debates, we can take responsibility for spreading the happy message on our own. It's unfortunately often so that the media just focuses on negative things and not on positive things, they focus on ad hoc and single events instead of what's the big picture. As politicians, we have a responsibility to contribute to a change in the media's attitude to these kinds of issues. To Per-Willy Amundsen I want to offer here and now a lightning course in social democracy. There is the basic principle: to deliver as much as possible and to obtain as necessary. It's not genius that people get a contribution to living when they can't get a job and fit into the labour market, but the goal of a social democratic society is work for everyone. The statistics also show that immigrants are in line for a job, but the problem is that too much of them are simply not getting. The debate here today seems to me to have been positive. I also think it is nice to note that in this debate we have the people of Norway in their backs. Statistical central agencies regularly measure attitudes towards immigrants — every year. In the last published measurement it is clear that the entire 69 pst. by the Norwegian population, it is agreed that the majority of immigrants make a useful contribution to Norwegian working life. When we come to the claim that all immigrants in Norway should have the same opportunity to work as Norwegians, the entire amount is 90 pst. by the Norwegian population. So the positive share of immigrants along several dimensions is increasing from year to year. So here we are politicians on very safe ground. The Norwegian population is behind us. An example was given in the debate here, about Somalis and the difficult situation many Somalis have in Norway today – and then it was referred to the United States. The positive results in the United States may have something to do with the way in which Somalis are received there, and on the American labour market, as opposed to us. I hope that the debate here today has made a positive contribution. I'll be happy if we've managed to contribute to strengthening the immigrants' reputation as positive contributors to society. But the very greatest job the immigrants do themselves. Our task is to let them go.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-16.ana.ud844e541	I also think this has been a very interesting debate. The danger of such a type of debate is that when we see some challenges, we focus very much on them and don't manage to draw a right whole picture of the situation. When I meet my colleagues around Europe who are labour ministers like me, and I say that the unemployment of immigrants in Norway is at 7.3 p.m., they at least think I'm talking about the overall unemployment. Many of them struggle with a general leave of well over 7 p.m., and they have a leave of absence among the immigrant population of 15-20-25 p.m. That is the situation in many countries in Europe. So describing Norwegian immigration policy as a total failure, like that. it seems that the representative Amundsen wants to describe the person who, in my opinion, is a fundamental error. Norway is the country in Europe with the lowest unemployment among immigrants. So something right must have happened in this policy, which is more right here than any other place. But we still have to deal with the fact that the unemployment rate is three times as high among immigrants as among ethnic Nordics, and we have to work on it. As far as education is concerned, there is no doubt that some of the most exciting things now happen is that not least the second generation of immigrant youth takes university and university education roughly on the level of ethnic Nordics. It's a pleasure, for example. to meet Pakistani student communities. It's a pleasure to meet Somali Student Association. These are young people who are dedicated students, who choose subjects for which there is a great demand in Norwegian business, and who do it very well in their studies. At the same time, we have to deal with what the representative, Mr Bøhler, refers to, that some groups in high school have a very large disqualification. This creates challenges that I know that the Minister of Knowledge is now working on in the context of the Social Disparity Report in School. It is also important to focus on the challenges, measure them. I can confirm what the representative Höie said, that we will report back on both the established objectives and the new objectives we set, so that the Storting can follow with us. It's important to focus on development, both on what's going well, and on the challenges we have. It is important not only to work on the challenges, but also to point to the good examples, such as: all the positive things that happen in the interpellant's own municipality of residence, Drammen. There we see that a number of integration measures now work very well. One of the most exciting things I've heard about is a work that's going on in the Norwegian Centre for Multicultural Value Creation. There's ideas to develop the entrepreneurial power of the immigrant community. That's this whole thing I think it's important to keep working on.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-16.ana.ud844e554	The interpellation debate is therefore over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-16.ana.ud844e569	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 517]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-16.ana.ud844e586	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 517]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-16.ana.ud844e606	The background to me taking up this interpellation is what we see happening in the health care system, and what is stated in the Soria Moria Declaration related to the use of private health care. When we see that the Soria Moria Declaration clearly calls for limiting the use of private health services, and at the same time know that the queues are actually growing, especially in some areas, I find concern, especially when we know that within a part of the healthcare system it is both available capacity and high efficiency, and that the work is done in an economically favourable way for society. Initially, I want to quote a former health minister, a health minister who I believe was both innovative and effective, and who took the initiative. Then I'm headed for former Minister of Health Tore Tønne. He said in a speech in December 2001: ‘The total supply of health must be used. That it has not been done is a matter for Ecocrim.’ [[...]] This was to be read in the No. 1st vintage year, March 2002. In addition, the former Minister for Health said: ‘The only thing that works is to make sure that alternatives are available. Patients must notice that they get to the operating table faster. A notable improvement in accessibility must take place quickly. The wait must be away and it must be gone quickly. It must be removed in one year.’» These are former Health Minister Tore Tönn's own opinions. Contractual practice is a public specialist health service and is in fact part of the responsibility. According to figures from the SINTEF report SAMDATA Somatics 2005 there will be a need for 35-50 pst by 2020. new consultations in the specialist health service per year; years. This means that specialist healthcare needs to be streamlined and capacity increased. Public hospitals have shown that they already have insufficient capacity to meet today’s needs. Private contract specialists in today’s health care, but also in the health services of the future, are therefore needed. The public contract specialists today account for approx. 36 pst. of all consultations in the specialist health service, but still having significant available capacity. I'm talking here in the first row about outpatient surgery/day surgery. Taking advantage of this capacity will have very positive effects in terms of reduced waiting times, and waiting lists will, of course, decrease. The Medical Association claims that the forecast of a significant increase in the need for healthcare is a reality-oriented strategic plan on which healthcare with two complexities is provided within hospitals and which needs and can be done outside hospitals. This is imperative in order to maintain and further develop the professional competence that is there. Hospitals need relief to cope with the heaviest problems and those most in need of resources. Significant resources have been allocated to the specialist health service in recent years. Health expenditure per year head has actually increased by 115 pst. since 1998. In parallel with this, there has been a reinforced focus on efficiency improvement and more treatment per year. annual work resource. It is therefore most effective to consider what is the reason why private contract specialists have significant further consultations per year. day than that of hospital doctors. In Health Nord, the private contract specialists represent 3.3 pst. of all years of play. They do 24,5 pst. of all outpatient/day consultations. There is a common desire to improve the effectiveness of specialist health services. This is imperative given the economic situation of health establishments. We're approaching 9 billion dollars just in accumulated deficits. Private contract specialists can make a strong contribution to such an improvement in efficiency. Private contract specialists are effective and have acute competence in their fields. The contract specialists represent approximately 50 % of the total in Norway. 440 years' worth of work. That's 7.2 pst. of the total number of medical staff in Norway, which is currently in excess of 10,000. In psychiatry, it's 173 years old. That's 11.7 pst. of the total number of medical years’ work in the field of mental health. Modernisation of the standard tariff is strictly necessary. It is not such that there is greater consistency between the actual costs and the treatment provided. The normal rate is linked to the DRG pricing at the hospitals. There is also reason to include private contract specialists in the priority part of the specialist healthcare service. Private contract specialists must be used offensively. This to achieve the goal of getting more health for each crown. Norway is one of the countries in the world that spends most on health per year. the population. Then it is strange that we are one of the few countries in the world that have long waiting lists and growing cows. The private contract specialists helped to reverse this trend during the previous major period. However, if we are to interpret the Soria Moria Declaration as far as possible – apologies, President – there is reason to believe that the use of private individuals will be further reduced. Decentralised specialist health services and contract specialists are more cost-effective. The fact that some specialise in some forms of treatment makes it effective and, in particular, more competent. I hope you can focus on these things, because it's important to use the resources that are out there. I have to say that when I first read the consultation draft which had been sent out related to the national health plan, I was very surprised. I lighted with lights and lights after just this service, the private contract specialists. Where did it go? It was almost absent in the draft consultation. When we were presented with the final draft of the National Health Plan, a little bit more had been done about it. However, in relation to the significant part of contract specialists in specialist health care, this is very little mentioned in the national health plan. It makes me uncertain. But it also means that we are getting this interpellation right now, so that the Council of State can sort out a part of what I hope is misunderstandings, and that it is clear that today the contract specialists are a significant part of the specialist health service, they are going to do it in the future, and we are willing to bet further to get an even greater spread, but not least to get an even more effective specialist health service in Norway. Then it is important that we are also willing to look at the tariffs in the standard tariff. Now, of course, I am not going to be involved in any wage negotiations or signal anything, but I hope at least that the Council of State will signal that she wants to go in the direction and bet on the contract specialists, make sure that the security of having these agreements comes back, and at least keep an eye on her own regional health companies, not to mention how many consultations and operations you should have, but rather to take care of the interests of patients by terminating the health queues and ensuring that patients wait as short as possible. Then I actually think the contract specialists are the very keyword.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-16.ana.ud844e654	A good health service assumes that there is a continuous search for how to improve even better, and how to develop the service further. The national health plan identifies a number of areas where this is necessary. One of those areas is the private contract specialists, as the interpellant is in. We will start work to change the framework conditions in order to improve the integration of contract specialists into regional health companies' compliance with care responsibilities and to continue the private-practice contract specialists scheme. I see this as an important part of the work to achieve better interaction between private actors and public health. A process for looking at the measures in question will now be implemented. Once the necessary investigation work has been completed, there will be consultation and, of course, the matter will be brought to the attention of Stortinget in the event of arrangements requiring changes to the framework conditions laid down by the Stortinget. I also attach great importance to dialogue both with the Storting and with stakeholders. The ministry has already had dialogue meetings on the matter with the Medical Association and the Psychological Association, and it is a work we want to continue with. As can be seen from the review in the national health plan — and I do not think it is necessary to measure the number of millimeters or meters or kilometers written there — this is not at all a measure to combat the scheme of private contract specialists. Let's be clear. On the other hand, let me say that private-practicing contract specialists are an essential part of the specialist health service. The government believes that it is a valuable resource and, as the representative Nesvik rightly points out, private contract specialists carry out a significant share of all outpatient consultations in all our health regions. Private contract specialists also have consistently high productivity, and studies show that patients are largely very satisfied. Therefore, let there be no doubt that I believe that private contract specialists are an important part of the specialist health service, and I want to maintain and further develop this scheme. In the national health plan, the Government has also explained its views on the involvement of various private enterprises in public health policy. We think the private are a useful supplement to the public. We want to ensure the right priorities, in line with the Patient Rights Act and the priority regulation. We also want to facilitate a good division of tasks between contract specialists and healthcare companies and ensure equal access to specialist health services. The proper prioritisation of healthcare resources is one of the major challenges facing our healthcare system in the future. The resources of society, as set out in the Patient Rights Act and the Prioritisation Regulation, shall be used for the main needs and where services can have the best impact — also assessed in relation to service costs. In the management of regional health enterprises, several measures are being implemented to ensure that the provision of services is more effective than those that need to be given the most priority. We talk, for example: on a better follow-up to the responsibilities of regional health businesses. It is the same objective that underpins the investigation and development that is now to be carried out in the field of private contract specialists, so that we can better integrate them into the responsibility of regional health businesses. I believe that there is a fairly broad consensus that there should be a development in this area. The work of contract specialists is subject to and governed both by a government agreement providing tariffs for services, etc., by framework agreements concluded between regional health undertakings and professional associations, and by individual agreements between regional health undertakings and individual contract specialists. In the current framework agreements, concluded in December 2005, the parties have agreed on a number of measures to improve transparency and dialogue on how this is done in practice. It can provide a better basis for better targeting services against the priority needs. One example is that regional health establishments should help to make the waiting time of contract specialists available to patients. Another example is the possibility for regional health enterprises to change the profile of individual practices, which are also made clear in the framework agreement. An example of where this might be used is where the hospital needs operations to train specialists and also to maintain the competence of the hospital. The new measures are now being implemented and, for the Ministry of Health and Health, it will be important to take a picture of the situation, of the potential, and to monitor developments and the results of the new measures. This, of course, also needs to be considered in conjunction with the other framework conditions which affect the effectiveness of the contract-specialist scheme in relation to health policy objectives. The government's starting point is, as you know, that specialist health services are primarily to be solved by making good use of the public service offer. Public funds shall be directed primarily against priority needs, against priority areas. However, it is a clear prerequisite for the care of regional health businesses to ensure that the responsibility of different private actors is also involved in the overall provision of services.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-16.ana.ud844e675	Let me first of all be allowed to say that I am happy that you have not chosen to cut out the contract specialists, but that you actually have a thought about it, and that you – I was saying – luckily, at least in my personal opinion, more or less can see as an accident at work what happened in connection with the first draft consultation that was sent out. However, I am not quite calm yet, because it is said that we are now working on a new draft to be sent out to the hearing, relating to how to get the contract specialists more integrated into the responsibility of regional health companies. Then we will again address the debate we have had on the use of private hospitals – commercial, ideal – and the responsibility of regional health businesses in this area. Then we quickly get into the problem that it is easier to make sure that you yourself get rid of what you have the capacity and the desire for, and then we'll see if there's anything left for the others. This means that you can once again get problems related to how much business you should be allowed to do, regardless of how many patients you actually need and need to be treated. It is easy that this again can be what I believe is the goat and the oat bag. I think the most sensible thing to do if you really want to further integrate the private contract specialists into the specialist health service is to modernise the standard tariff, as one might say. did in connection with cataracts, where a separate K-tariff was introduced, so that the cows were taken away. It was effective just like that, and it didn't take long before you got rid of the queues. I look forward to the matter being dealt with if any significant changes occur, and not least that this is sent out to the hearing. I really hope that the private contract specialists will also be included on advice in this process, because this is a very important part of the healthcare system, which needs proper care. I hope you're more positive about this than what can be seen in the Soria Moria statement. And then it's tempting to ask if the Council of State has a different view of the private contract specialists than the government has expressed in relation to the private commercial hospitals, as the Soria Moria statement clearly states that this should be limited, and that fewer patients should be treated there. I'm a little worried if it also applies to the private contract specialists, which is the most effective part of the specialist health service.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-16.ana.ud844e686	We are now in a process where all parties will of course be allowed to speak, and we have, as I said, a dialogue with the organisations of the stakeholders. I just have to stress again what I said in the beginning, that when we start doing this, it's not because we have a desire to fight the private contract specialists, I'd say rather the opposite. We think they're doing an important job, which we want to continue. That's why we don't want them to have a role in our health care system. So I generally believe that the private health service is a useful supplement to the public. What the government is concerned about is that we should primarily use the public's capacity to provide the best possible care for those who need it the most. But that doesn't mean we're opposed to the supplement that part of the private service offer can provide. I have also met several of the organisations concerned in that area. We have a good dialogue, and I actually believe that the public and private have something to learn from each other, which is for the benefit of the patient. With regard to the question of tariffs, everyone will understand that I have no opinion about it from this pulpit here today. But I can assure you once again that we are going to have proper processes, the purpose of which is how we are going to manage to integrate the private contract specialists even more into the specialist health service, so that we can take care of responsibility across the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-16.ana.ud844e697	I'm glad we got this interpellation and this round, which helps to dedramatize a little bit what it's all about in balancing public services and private supplements. As far as that balance is concerned, it is important to nuance the picture that Harald Tom Nesvik draws in his first post. Looking at developments in the period of the Bondevik government, it is right that the queues for outpatient operations and outpatient consultations – the queues for the removal of almonds, gray tails, light bulbs, etc. – evolved very positively. Cows decreased by more private supplements, private health services, while queues in health services in case of severe, demanding diseases, and resources spent on them, tended to increase somewhat, for example. during the period 2003-2004. These include diseases such as colon cancer, prostate cancer, breast cancer, mental disorders, etc. So in that picture and in the discussion now we have to bear in mind that during that period you couldn't balance this well enough. The fact that we have a nuanced picture of this also shows what is being done about the IA agreement, where we also want to use private supplements to get a good use of the resources that are put into helping more people into the world of work. What is the danger of not having the right balance, but too much using private offerings, is that there can be a sleeping cushion in terms of improving the efficiency and development of the public health system. I have now seen that two-three hospitals have finally begun to use their investments, their capital and their operating equipment longer than until noon. 15–16, and that one has decided that instead of perhaps doing one operation before lunch and one or two after lunch and then shut down and go home and leave the equipment unused for a large part of the week, it will be used beyond the evenings and perhaps even on weekends to help more people and get a more efficient use of large public investment. The type of effective treatment is, of course, operated by the private health services we are talking about, and by those that complement the public health system. We need to make better use of public health capacity and ensure that the use of private contract specialists and other private health services does not become a sleep cushion for the public sector in relation to migration. It is true, as was said by both the Minister and the interpellant, that some of these private health services are more effective than parts of the public sector. So that's the first father I see that it can be a sleep cushion in relation to public migration. You better learn from each other here. Secondly, there is a danger that private health services and excessive rotation will draw important competences from public health services. After all, it is a competence that we have invested in for years through education, which the public will not in any way regain services in relation to, and the public health system will gradually deteriorate in quality if there is too strong a trend in that direction. There is also a danger of unfair conditions in the direction of working in public hospitals and then performing contract practices and jobs in private health services on holidays or on weekends and on other occasions, and that you have the opportunity, I kept saying, to refer to yourself by working elsewhere. It is important to maintain the focus with regard to the need for orderly conditions with regard to services exchanged between the public sector and private services. There is also a danger that there will be a further turn towards the fact that there are certain disorders that we can effectively get done away with using public supplements, that we are turning it too much in that direction. We need to take care of that now with regard to the IA agreement and the use of those funds, that we not only deal with the problems where rapid and short-term treatment can help people out of work, but also use the funds for people who need longer-term help. Of course, private health services and contract specialists are not equally distributed throughout the country, so it is also important to take care of the public in order to have a balance throughout the country and a good enough offer throughout the country. [[President clubs]] [[The President clubs.]] So it's important with this supplement, but in order for us to get a holistic, good health care, it doesn't have to be exaggerated.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-16.ana.ud844e712	The President will ask the representatives to deal with speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-16.ana.ud844e715	It is important that this question is addressed, and it is nice to hear that there is a broad consensus that the private contract specialists will be important in the years to come. I get a little worried when I hear that someone is afraid that the private contract specialists will become a sleep cushion. I don't think we can ever get there, rather on the contrary. It's just that you have the private contract specialists, which means that the public health service needs to step up. The fact that you have something to compare with, that you have someone else who can do the same job is very important. I also see no great danger in whether this should be much larger. There's nothing to suggest that the private do a worse job, or that they do it more expensive, rather on the contrary, and then I can't see the big danger of this getting bigger. We need to have a public health service paid, and then the most important thing is that patients get the very best treatment. What's a danger, as it's been now, is that there's very much uncertainty. In this area, other areas where health establishments have contracts are also concerned. In the case of clinics with which they have agreements, in the case of rehabilitation institutions, and in the case of contract specialists. As a result, many people hesitate to create a new offer and make offers that the public can make use of. This also leads to the fact that very many competent specialists do not dare to apply to these places, and there is a great danger. We had a case here last week about the Lille Strømklinik and a private contract specialist in psychiatry, Leif Roar Falkum, who raised a case that they did not get a job. They had created an offer with a high level of competence and were ready to provide services, but they did not get a job. And it's clear, who's willing to bet on something like that in the future if you're going to have government signals that are so unclear that you don't know if you're going to be able to get a deal for a year, a year and a half, or how much you're going to do? I can't. We need predictability and robust framework conditions to attract specialists, whether public health or private. These must be able to work around each other and get good deals. It is a boost for public health that you have good private offerings as well. I'll also be allowed to take along, even if that's not the case now, this with the rehabilitation institutions that are now sitting at the end of the year and do not know if they're getting agreements next year. Of course, this goes beyond the employees there, which means that you do not dare to bet and build up the offer as it should be, and it also goes beyond patients who are in treatment situations, who do not know if they will receive an offer next year. I think it's important now that the government sits down and thinks about what kind of health care we're going to have. Because it's not good, and there's been a storm of enquiries this year both from patients and from those who deal with specialties, that there's too much uncertainty. So it doesn't help so much that you say that the private is going to be part of it, now you're going to have things out at the hearing, etc. Something has to happen, and there has to be much clearer signals, so that we get a health care service where specialists dare to bet, where they dare to create good offers, alternatives, and can be involved and contribute so that we get the best health care in Norway as possible, and as reasonably as possible. Good reasonable services and predictability are what we want.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-16.ana.ud844e724	It is reassuring to hear that the Council of State is committed to integrating the contract specialists more into the specialist health services and in health regions, because it is important to exploit the capacity they have and the competences they have. The council further said that she was busy exploiting the public first and then having it private as a supplement, and the question is whether the council will build up the public at the expense of what we have today of private offerings, in order to reduce the private entry. We have received many concerns from many private providers around the country, including: from the Feiring Clinic, that it is about to happen. I could imagine hearing the Council of State's assessment of it. On the right, it is important that patients receive high-quality health care when they need it. The public shall provide the necessary health care to all, irrespective of the individual's economy, place of residence and background. For patients, health care is of minor importance if needed by private or public actors, as long as health care is paid by the public. The right has been a driver for public use of the free capacity of private actors to help patients receive rapid health care and greater freedom of choice. But we see that the ideological struggle of government parties leads to increased waiting time against private actors providing the necessary health care. Numbers from the Norwegian Patient Register show that the use of private actors has been reduced by 12 pst. The Council of State is constantly pointing out that the average waiting time is falling, but there is little consolation for patients who actually experience that the waiting time for the treatment they themselves need is rising. According to Free Hospital Choice figures, the median time of hospitalisation and treatment is, for example, the median time of hospitalisation and treatment. for cervical prolapses 16 weeks, while the private hospital Aleris has a waiting time of three weeks. I believe that such ideological resistance leads to a classed healthcare service, where the rich can buy quick treatment, while those who have poor advice must stand in a public queue. I find that unworthy, I find it irresponsible, and I find it unacceptable. I won't go as far as Tore Tønne and say it's criminal, but it's tempting. The government has clarified that these are the private commercial businesses they want to fight, and not the ideals. But I believe that the distinction between ideal and commercial actors is a naive and dogmatic notion that cannot be practiced in health policy. The right assumes that everyone who works in the healthcare system needs a reasonable benefit for the job they do, whether you are a nurse in a public hospital or a private doctor with an operating contract. Of course, regional health undertakings must ensure that agreements with private operators do not give an unreasonable profit to healthcare providers on behalf of the public. It is alarming that the waiting time for children in need of mental health protection is increasing. Now the average time is 96 days, which is more than three months. The roadmap for mental health was aimed at increasing the number of contract specialists in mental health protection by 50 pst. But it's increased by just 4 pst. in recent years. It is therefore important to monitor the availability of capacity among private actors that can help reduce waiting time. A survey carried out by SINTEF in 2004 on behalf of Health East shows that the private contract specialists in paediatric psychiatry on average have four consultations per year. The figure for adults is six consultations per day. day(s) For comparison, an average of 1,8 consultations are conducted per year. employed in public outpatient clinics. This shows that private actors make an important contribution to providing patients with a better offer. It is obviously good resource use to use the offer from private contract specialists. At a time when priority challenges are becoming increasingly demanding, it is important to ensure that we get the most health for each krona. The right is aimed at comparing resource use in public and private health establishments in order to provide a basis for assessing the potential for improvement in the various services. Although private contract specialists make good efforts for Norwegian patients, there is also a need to ensure good governance of their activities. That Health East study shows that there is too little and too little information on the content of contractual practices. I believe that regional health businesses need to address this in order to ensure good health care for the population. In addition, it is necessary to ensure good coordination between contract specialists and public activities. From the Right, we want to emphasise that the Council of State is following up this work in its ownership management towards regional health businesses.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-16.ana.ud844e745	The Minister of Health has given a comprehensive picture of what the red-green parties on the Stortinget mean. As she said, the National Health Plan states that the Ministry will undertake work to change the framework conditions, to improve the integration of contract specialists in the fulfilment of responsibilities by regional health companies and to continue the private-practice contract specialists scheme. There is little doubt that today we are dependent on private contributions to health provision in Norway. As far as psychiatry is concerned, it is in fact a challenge to get newly trained psychologists and specialists to enter into an agreement with the public, because more and more people establish themselves without an agreement as private psychotherapists in central districts, especially Oslo West. We have to meet this at several levels, but I think an important challenge is to hire more, especially psychologists, in the municipalities, for example. providing rapid help to children and young people when they have problems. It also requires that we look at the education. I want to spend some time on the question of the use of private hospitals. The government has a different view of the use of private commercial providers than that of Nesvik and the Advance Party. In the Soria Moria statement, we both say that we want to ensure that hospitals owned and operated by non-governmental organisations are guaranteed good terms through agreements with the public, and that we want the scope of agreements between regional health companies and private commercial hospitals to be limited. Free capacity in public hospitals is to be exploited, we establish. For us in SV, this is seaworthy. Public funds shall, as far as possible, amount to money in the pocket of private individuals. That's also why we want a clean-up of state-owned companies' wage and bonus policies, for example. It is really amazing that the Progress Party is not more concerned about how public funds are used. Why is it more reasonable to bet on private commercial offers that should have a profit for their owners than to spend all the money on developing a good public offer? We know that some of these actors, both owners and some doctors, have made fat on an uncritical use of public funds. That's also the background that we want to clean up. This development led to speed under the previous government, where the number of private hospitals in a short time increased from seven to 24. In addition, there was a widespread mix of roles, where public employees are working part-time in private, competing hospitals. I remember a newspaper manager describing the situation this way: it's like journalists in the newspaper were going to work part-time in the VG. - I mean, it's completely unimaginable. Allowing too much private commercial interest instead of building up public capacity is unreasonable and may lead to greater social and regional inequality. We do not want that. We want an equally good offer for everyone, regardless of their place of residence, regardless of the size of the wallet. A policy that stimulates the establishment of several commercial hospitals gives less opportunity to prioritize between patient groups, leads to increased pressure on wages, especially among doctors, and it can give a picture of the public as less efficient, just because the public eventually becomes left with the heaviest patients, in addition to the many commitments they have, which they do not have. So, it's a competition on different terms. This does not mean that there is no room for improvement within the public system, it is quite clear. For example, in terms of interaction, user involvement and employee involvement, we have major challenges. But the solution to this is not increased privatisation. I want to end by saying that many private people do a very important job. Private contract specialists, private ideal offers – not least in the area of rehabilitation, of which Sonja Sjøli was involved, and also of the Progress Party – private individuals who have built up skills that are lacking in the public sector are important in order for patients to have a good offer. I have been working hard to get a patient with serious anorexia into a private offer in Fredrikstad, Capio, and that was because we saw that there was not a good enough offer in the public sector. But at the same time, I was very honest that the best thing would be if we had used this money to develop a good offer within the public sector, so you wouldn't use part of these funds to build up a profit for the owners of these offers. We have a responsibility to use the private active where they are a valuable supplement, but at the same time we have to make sure that we develop and increase the public offer, because a public offer is the best way to give the population a safe and equivalent offer. Finally, in relation to the Right: It is very good if the Right has become more concerned with class divisions in Norway. However, the distortion from public welfare to private consumption that occurred with the Right in Government – much less hospital investment, for example. as to what this government has actually done, cut the municipalities and liberally offered to the private – would speed up progress towards increasing class divisions in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-16.ana.ud844e768	Historically, the more organized treatment of illness and help for people in need of our churches began. It's been so many hundred years since we almost forgot. But as the responsibility for health services has increasingly been taken over by the public, the Christian People's Party has supported such a development. Nevertheless, we see that the private healthcare providers are important and necessary supplements, on the condition that the quality of the services is satisfactory. Therefore, the Christian People's Party also seems to be concerned when the Government aims to reduce the private supplement. We know that after the hospital reform was introduced a few years ago, only one of the companies is in balance. Yes, we are also aware that they have accumulated a significant accumulated deficit of billions of dollars. Is it, then, that when the money does not go to, regional enterprises give priority to themselves and their own operations — obviously with a risk of longer waiting time? Chronic illness must wait for treatment. Rehabilitation waits are longer, and the waiting time, which on some DPS is now closer to two years, can be even longer. Christian People's Party puts the patient in focus. We have to make sure that they get the professional help they need when they're sick or they're in trouble, whether it's in the hands of private or public health care professionals.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-16.ana.ud844e778	I'm going to try to stick to the issue today, i.e. private contract practice. Interpellation starts with the fact that contractual practices are an important part of our healthcare system. This is Left Unity in. The private contract specialists are a particularly important part of the health care chain. To get a little clarification of what contractual practices mean, I would say that there is an agreement between the individual specialist and the health care provider. I understand the state council's posts so that the council agrees that we're going to have such a system, we're going to have such a supplement, and I have to say I'm very happy to right. Or I'll go to Health West. I was informed here during the day that in the Health West there are about 230 years' work for contract specialists. 50 pst. of them before psychiatry. The activities of these specialists are approved by the regional health care agencies. Thus, regional health professionals are responsible for the management of contractual practices, which means that the RHFs determine disciplines, geographic location, volume and by whom each contract practice is to be carried out. Patients should then initially be prioritised according to current national standards, as we heard. Thus, it is part of the overall image that the priority should in principle be according to current national standards. I'll come back a little bit. In principle, the responsible health authorities have full control over the nature and extent of the healthcare provided by the private contract specialists and where they are to be carried out. In this way, I would say that the system is actually premeditated, without state detail control. I think it's very good that a non-driving detail here from the top level. But what I think can be worrying, is that practice shows that the specialists who get a deal are clumsy in the big cities. This means, as some have been in the past today, that the supply of the Norwegian people represented by these specialists is disparately distributed across the country. To go back to Health West: Of the 230 year works in Health West, Health Bergen, 130 are years of contract practice in Bergen. Then you can imagine how few are in the rest of the area. I have a number, but I just want to say that it's very few. It's unimaginable. Another moment is if these specialists really follow the national guidelines for prioritising patients. I heard the council say that now someone was going to work on checking this out. I think it's a very important moment to check if the intentions are actually followed. I understand that the authorities do not have enough overview of this issue, and from these two points I will ask the Council of State: will the Council of State contribute to improving the geographical distribution of contract specialists? And can the Council state anything more about the private contract specialists prioritizing treatment of patients in line with national leadership or not?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-16.ana.ud844e797	Norway has been designated one of the world’s best countries to live in for several years. One of the reasons for that is that we have a good welfare offer. We have a good health offer for the whole population, if you were to live here in Oslo, in Finnmark or along our west coast. A good public health service is the foundation of Velferds-Norway. Having equal access to good health services wherever you live is important. But as the representative from the Left here points out, we see that private specialists tend to establish themselves in densely populated areas and in larger cities, so that there is little access to private specialists in District Norway. A combination of public and private health services is important, but the provision of private health services must and must be complementary to a good public health service. In a country like Norway, it is not satisfactory that a person has long waiting lists. That is why this government, with the Council of State Sylvia Brustad, made an extra investment in relation to the previous government. We added 600 million. kr in the budget for 2006, and not just that, we added 390 million. kr to continue a larger activity than the Bondevik government, with the Right, added. There may be many reasons why we have long waiting lists. One reason is that we offer a better medical offer, we have better equipment, and we can treat new patient groups that previously did not have an offer in the healthcare system. We see in many ways that it's not just the private that's effective. We see that many public hospitals are also effective if they can have selective services and areas. We see Røro's hospital, which has orthopaedics, and which is very effective. We also see that in a private hospital here in Oslo, Lovisenberg Diakonale Hospital, they do not benefit from the public. All funds raised are returned either through patient care or to investments in buildings and equipment. It is important that health professionals responsible for running hospitals and healthcare around have good cooperation with all the private contract specialists. I think the Minister for Health has given a good answer to that. The division of tasks is also important when talking about building up either the public or the private offering. We see that there are many local hospitals today that may be able to carry out new tasks. Then selective services within areas where we see the waiting lists being long can be added to them. In this way, important competences and jobs are ensured, and not least an important health service also in local hospitals and in many parts of the districts. With regard to the investments we have made, both by building up public competences and by investing in buildings and equipment, it is important that we make better use of this capacity in public rather than building up a larger private share here. I feel that there are quite big differences between operating ideals, voluntary hospitals and health services and doing business commercially. We have seen that at Klinik Stokkan and the Moxness Clinic there is a large private surplus that goes back to the owners instead of being returned to health care and investments in buildings and equipment. This government, with the Brustad State Council, has increased its investment in the Norwegian health sector in relation to the previous government. It is very good and very important. We've seen it in both the somatic and the psychiatry. Such a commitment contributes to a better supply and smaller differences between parts of the country and the population.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-16.ana.ud844e823	There may be a small dilemma when it comes to participating in an interpellation debate, namely whether to make an intervention on the subject of the interpellation, or whether to take part in all the other debates that representatives consider appropriate in connection with the interpellation. In the final analysis, I aim in particular at the article by the representative Thorkildsen, who was entirely concerned with something other than the questions the interpellant has raised. I'll do both. First a few words about the Council's response, which I think in many respects was joyously clear. I understood the Council of State that she concluded that private contract specialists are an element of Norwegian healthcare that has come to become, a necessary element, an important element, and that there are no issues in this that create problems in relation to an overall priority within Norwegian healthcare. The governance tools we have can be used with equal effect to include this element which, in terms of bringing public institutions into line with the overall priority criteria defined politically. So far, it's full consensus, and I think it's positive. What is important to add is that all available statistics show that productivity within the private contract specialists is significantly higher, in part, much higher than that of the publicly organised system. Of course, it should take us a lot to try to figure out why it is, and what it is that creates these very big differences – not least in the area of mental health protection. When the differences are as large as the representative Sjöli correctly referred to from available statistics, there must be reason for the Council of State to try to initiate studies in order to determine why the differences are so large. Then to the second theme. The representative of Thorkildsen made an ideological effort. Her ideological map could probably be nice to have fun with indoor use, but if someone were to try to take it to the terrain, in today's health policy reality, I'm pretty sure you'd get serious about it. I will take up a concrete and very topical example, which was not mentioned by the representative of Thorkildsen. The ideologically justified guideline on limiting, as stated in the Soria Moria Declaration, the use of private operators, has, among other things, led to a radical decline in capacity in terms of rehabilitation, not least for very many older people who, after having completed an operation, depend entirely on getting the necessary help to master their daily lives. The statistics show that capacity has fallen dramatically. At the same time, we know that the daily price at which you operate in a number of private rehabilitation institutions – professionally reputable institutions with free capacity – is less than a quarter of the cost of a similar offer when organised under public authority. It must then be allowed to ask whether the overall objective of the health policy is not to ensure that as much as possible of the health care needs it with the best possible quality and with the shortest possible waiting time. If the answer to that is yes, that is what the purpose of health policy is, the representative Thorkildsen’s map should remain a map for home use, which no one should try to take into account in the reality of health policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-16.ana.ud844e836	In many ways, I believe that this debate reveals great ideological divisions in Norwegian policy. On the one hand, we have today's government, which in many ways is talking about a welfare state. A lot of others are talking about a welfare society, and a welfare society is much more inclusive than a welfare state can ever be. A welfare society also includes individuals in any area, including health. Earlier in the debate, Jan Bøhler was in the pulpit and talked about the fact that public hospitals were now going to operate after 1 p.m. 15th It's great, and it's fine, but the health companies' world is much more nuanced than that. Thus, at UNN in Tromsø, Health Nord, where the public has deciphered the highest level of health ownership, there is a risk of having to go from five days of operation to four days of operation – as a consequence of under-funded and long-term health enterprises in Norway. Clearly, when the lack of money in health businesses becomes as violent as it is today, health business attitudes clearly seek to protect themselves. So the danger of in many ways wanting to squander the private businesses is both real and correct, and we see it every day. When you know that the private specialist health service is much more efficient and cost-effective and performs more service for every penny, it is very sad that this service is not prioritised more than what it actually becomes.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-16.ana.ud844e845	I must say that this has become a strange debate. I traveled this interpellation to try to clarify the place of the private contract specialists in the specialist health service. Sometimes I am amazed. The councils made a good contribution, and in many ways she reassured me. Then some others from the government parties come floating into the hall, in the middle of the debate, and go to the pulpit and make a thunderous speech. One opens by saying that the Council of State has elaborated in an excellent way the Government's position, but then makes an article on a completely different matter, on a classed health care system and what it entails – all taken completely out of context. The representative Jan Bøhler's posts had nothing to do with the private contract specialists at all. But I'll try to relate to the facts. Governments decided in their statement that private contract specialists are an important part of the specialist health service. She made it clear. At the same time, however, it is said – I am a little concerned about this – that the private contract specialists should be integrated into the responsibility of regional health companies. What this could lead to is probably part of what we've seen, among other things. In the area of rehabilitation and training, that you first take care of yourself, and then, when you have to buy services from others, or pass it on, you can have – I do not say you do it, but you can have – an agenda other than necessarily being as effective as possible. Furthermore, we have an explicit objective in Norway that we should pursue this in accordance with the so-called Leon principle – the lowest effective level of care. In fact, those that are most effective on the cost side have to be used, and not least reduce the waiting time that many people experience today. The waiting time itself is a burden for those who are ill. It is then important that we put in place proper mechanisms to ensure that patients can feel safe for treatment in the best possible way and as effectively as possible. I'll give you an example of how this can be done. I want to refer to the Hamar Eye Medical Center. The following was in play no. _1/2006: ‘We have now in fact replaced the entire eye department of the Hospital Inland, Hamar, says private practitioners, Kjell Morten Setrom, who started the Hamar Eye Medical Centre with four colleagues well six months after the eye department was closed in May 2004. After one year of operation, the queues may be found to be gone.» This is an important supplement. It's not going to replace what's, but we have to use it in a proper and sensible way, for the benefit of Norwegian patients.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-16.ana.ud844e861	I have tried to be very ready for what the interpellant brought up, namely the private contract specialists. Therefore, I am somewhat surprised when representatives Giltun and Fredriksen try to say that there have been unclear signals, and that there is now a great deal of uncertainty. We are working on how to better integrate the private contract specialists into the specialist health service in order to take care of responsibility. Then we will try to answer some of the things that the representative Ludvigsen is concerned about. Is that the right priority? What does the distribution look like around the country? Of course, I am also very interested in looking at the differences that need to be in efficiency between public and private. It's especially true in psychiatry, where we now see, especially in the case of children and young people, that it's on its way up. It worries me and the Government as much as it worries everyone else, both representatives and parties. So just a little bit to the representative Giltun: it's clear that we have challenges in the Norwegian health system. But I hope that one does not blacken that picture more than what is actually necessary. So we have one of the world's best health services. We have never treated as many patients as we do now in Norway. We've never spent that much money. We operate far more things today than we do, for example. could do for only 10 years back. That's the situation. That doesn't mean it's not a challenge. There have been several people involved, and that's all clear, but at least I hope we don't contribute to making this worse than it actually is. So to the representative, Sjøli, and to the extent also the representative, Wage: I think it is too easy to equate it with something that this government has done in relation to private actors, and that waiting time in some areas is now increasing. It's too simple. I am concerned that we should be able to make the best use of the private and the public, that there is something to learn from each other. That's also why I have dialogue with the private actors to see how we can make the best possible use of each other, in order to give priority to those who need the help of the most and all first. It's the most important thing. So to the representative of Nyborg, it could have been tempting to have a long talk about the situation in the hospital sector, and not least what it was like under the previous government, which has the bulk of the responsibility for how it has become such a large accumulated deficit. But that debate is coming back to us. I just want to make it clear that when it comes to the question the interpellant took up, we need to have a thorough consultation process. Of course, I also come back to Stortinget, if there were to be changes of such a nature that it is necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-16.ana.ud844e874	The interpellation debate is therefore over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-16.ana.ud844e880	Let's go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-16.ana.ud844e936	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-16.ana.ud844e944	There will be a vote on the proposal by Mr Åse Gunhild Woie Duesund, on behalf of the Christian People's Party, submitted from the Odelstinget meeting on 9 November 2006: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals as soon as possible giving elected representatives the right of access to the pay and employment of foreign workers in areas subject to public service decisions.’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-16.ana.ud844e961	There is a vote on proposals submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 9 November 2006: ‘The Government is asking for urgent consideration by the Government of proposals for measures to ensure that foreign workers in Norway are easily accessible and comprehensive information on rights and obligations which, inter alia, ensure legal employment and working conditions for this group. In particular, the government is asked to consider setting up a separate unit in order to carry out this task under the auspices of the Labour Inspectorate. ‘...
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-16.ana.ud844e974	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-16.ana.ud844e985	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word under Section 37(a) of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
