ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-14-lower.ana.ud461e32	The President will propose that this morning’s meeting continue beyond the regulatory period until today’s map is completed – and considers it to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-14-lower.ana.ud461e46	The repeal of the State Bank Investment Fund Act is not seen as a major and difficult matter in the Business Committee. The Committee agrees with the Ministry's assessments and proposals to repeal the law. The majority had debated and decided to wind up the Bank Investment Fund on 15 December 2003, so now it is only the formal decision to repeal the law that remains. When I take the floor, it's simply to avoid this law being buried in, we'll say, complete silence. It doesn't deserve it. There are good reasons to think about why this law became necessary, and that it was an important basis for a significant part of our financial industry to be rocked from 1991 onwards in the 1990s. I recommend the unanimous recommendation of the Business Committee, and hope that with this my strong contribution has contributed to the resolution of the State Bank Investment Fund Act in a worthy way.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-14-lower.ana.ud461e57	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Footage, see page 171]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-14-lower.ana.ud461e73	At the request of the Defence Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-14-lower.ana.ud461e80	In recent years, home security has changed in terms of both size and function. Home security is now the closest we come to a mobilization defense, and is no longer bound by geographical ties. The more mobile role of home protection has also affected the organisation as a whole. Home security is now part of our defence against terror and other threats. It also has an important role to play in preventing and limiting natural and man-made disasters. Therefore, in view of these changes in the nature and functioning of Home Protection, it is now necessary, in the opinion of the Committee, to adapt the legal basis for the convening of civil protection personnel. There is currently insufficient legal basis for calling on civil protection personnel to carry out the primary and secondary tasks that can be derived from the consent of the Stortingen to the quality reform of the Home Protection in particular, the transition of defence in general and the need to strengthen civil-military cooperation in the area of social security. The Government considers that the legal basis for calling civil protection personnel to carry out tasks entrusted to them should be strengthened. It is proposed that this should be done through an extension of Section 13 of the Home Protection Act to be able to be imposed more specifically on service in addition to compulsory service under Sections 9 to 12 of the Act. Such service is proposed limited to services aimed at averting or limiting estimates of extensive or for other reasons particularly harmful, aimed at major societal interests. The Committee considers that, by amending the law as it now stands, what has previously been mentioned will become a legal basis for calling civil protection personnel into tasks which can be derived from the consent of the Stortinge to the quality reform of the Home Protection System, the conversion of defence, and the need to strengthen civil-military cooperation in the area of social security. The Committee notes that none of the hearing bodies opposes the proposed amendments to the Home Office Act, and it shows that the proposal is very well anchored in all the hearing bodies. It is also clear from the opinions that the threshold for calling PRMs for crisis management needs to be reasonably high, as the Committee would also point out the importance of this. The Committee unanimously endorses the proposal to amend Law No 17 July 1953. 28 on Home Security [[extended duty in peacetime]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-14-lower.ana.ud461e97	As the rapporteur pointed out, the background to the case is that we have an insufficient legal basis for calling home-defence soldiers to carry out the tasks that the Stortinget has decided for the Home-defense. Such strengthening of the legal basis will improve the capacity of Home Security to uphold and secure critical infrastructure and strengthen civil and military cooperation in the fight against terrorism. As the rapporteur said, there are no hearings that have gone against it, and according to the press, the bill is referred to as important and correct. It is pointed out that this will contribute to further relevant and applicable home protection. The 60-year history of Homeland Security tells of an organization based on volunteering, hard work, presence and local knowledge. Despite the major changes that the Home Office has undergone in recent years, this basic attitude remains firm. I have no doubt that the amendment of the law that is now taking place will help to strengthen the role of Home Protection in the local environment and make it possible to exploit even better the competences and resources of Home Security. The flexibility embedded in the bill can mean an extra burden for civil society, both on the staff and on their employers, but with the importance of Home Protection in society, and with a responsible and committed staff, I think this will work very well. It is very important that socially beneficial services provided by Home Affairs create in themselves a flexibility and goodwill in all parts of society. Therefore, it is our belief that this change is a proper development for Home Affairs, and I am pleased that a collective committee is behind the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-14-lower.ana.ud461e112	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-14-lower.ana.ud461e120	Odelstingen then goes to voting in case No. 1 to 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-14-lower.ana.ud461e153	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-14-lower.ana.ud461e163	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-14-lower.ana.ud461e216	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-14-lower.ana.ud461e226	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
