ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-31.ana.ud1601e30	Representatives Jan Arild Ellingsen, Hans Olav Syversen, Tore Nordtun, and Per Ove Width, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-31.ana.ud1601e59	On Monday, the Stortinget received a message from the Prime Minister's office that Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg will meet for oral Question Time. The Prime Minister is present, and we are ready to start the oral questioning process. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, would like to ask questions of substance. – We then start with the first main questions, from the representative, Siv Jensen.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-31.ana.ud1601e68	Recently, there have been a series of events that make me find reason to start asking questions about the leadership of the sitting government. At first we had settled wages, where it was quite obvious that there was a strange situation when the Prime Minister found it too good to intervene in parts of the payroll based on the fact that the LO manager took a phone call. At the same time, academics and other business organisations have asked why they do not receive the same treatment from this government when they contact and want the same attention from the Prime Minister and the Government in their payroll. But what may have made the matter even more serious is the events of the night. Yesterday, we could see the State Council of Enoch having a warm defense for the appointment of Odjell as Governor of Statoil. So, in today's news picture, we can see that this time too, LO leader Gerd-Liv Valla has called the Prime Minister, and suddenly, Odjjell is no longer a candidate as chairman of Statoil. This is starting to get more of us to ask some questions about who is really leading this country – is it the Prime Minister, or is it Gerd-Liv Valla? It can't be that every single time there's a situation where the LO leader doesn't like the development of the government's policy, she picks up a phone to the Prime Minister, and then everything's fine. It's quite serious. In a situation where you have to appoint the chief executive of the country's largest enterprise, where the state is a dominant owner, I expect and many with me that the government has stood behind the appointment before it happens. My question to the Prime Minister will therefore be: Has not the Government been in advance of the Odjell appointment?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-31.ana.ud1601e82	First, about the payroll. I believe that was handled in a very good way. This helped us to get a paycheck in the port, both for industry, for the municipal sector and for most of the state sector, which has ensured more things. Firstly, it has ensured a responsible framework for wage-setting, and it has ensured a good social profile. And we have a settlement that is compatible with continued good development in the Norwegian economy. It is absolutely right that the government has contributed to it. When it came to the settlement in the private sector, the government helped us get a solution in the industry, by sending us a letter about a contractual pension. The fact that we sent that letter, where we made it clear that we wanted to continue the contractual pension until 2010, was a significant contribution, a wanted contribution, from the parties to a consensus and was avoided in the private sector and had a responsible settlement. It is also true that the Government has contributed to establishing an agreement in the municipal sector. We did this by making a contribution to finding a solution to teachers' working time regulations. Of course, the government has also contributed to finding a solution in the state sector, where it was necessary, after the mediator’s proposal, to make some adjustments based on that outline — a few minor adjustments — which overall made us avoid strikes for the vast majority of groups in the state sector. It's nothing new that the government contributes this way. Nor is it new – and I believe it is a strength in the Norwegian system – that a prime minister can have contact with the LO leader, and I had it in connection with the settlement in the private sector and also in the settlement in the public sector. I have also had contact with the Academics and the other organizations. I've met them. I'm willing to meet them again. But we have a long tradition in the country that we don't meet organizations that are on strike, so the meetings are going to happen at another time.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-31.ana.ud1601e91	It is unusual for a prime minister to intervene in the wage settlement when it is still in motion with the Riksmeklingsmann. There is no doubt that many have asked questions about the handling that the Government has. I understand that it is obviously important for the Prime Minister to respond at the request of the LO leader. But there are other leaders, in other organisations, who feel unfairly treated, who feel that there is LO at any time being prioritised by the country's prime minister, while the academics and a number of others have actually asked for similar attention and have not received any. We can only take note of the fact that there is a policy that this Government is pursuing. But it's still the case that we have a serious situation related to the Governor of Statoil. I record that the Prime Minister does not answer the question when it comes to it. Has the government been in contact with Odjell or has it not?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-31.ana.ud1601e100	I would like to answer that question. But I'm going to finish it with the payroll first. Contact with the parties has been common to many in the Government, including LO. I've met the Academics, but it's a long tradition that you don't meet an organization that's on strike. I discussed several questions with the academics before the payroll, but in a strike situation we do not meet them. Our contributions led to a good wage settlement in port without strike for the vast majority of groups. As far as Statoil is concerned, Johan Fredrik Odfjell has informed the Election Committee in Statoil that he is no longer a candidate as chairman of the company. The Electoral Committee is now in place and will promote a new attitude towards the works council. Of course, there has been contact between the Electoral Committee, the Ministry of Oil and Energy and the Council of State. There have been conversations with Odjell in the past, there have been conversations in the past as well. I believe that the decision Odfjell has taken is a right decision, which serves the company and Statoil's interests.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-31.ana.ud1601e109	The President will accept three follow-up questions – first Erna Solberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-31.ana.ud1601e112	The important questions are what kind of contact the government has had with Odberg in this process before, and what has happened during the night. Is it so that the Prime Minister believes that there have been things that have not been known before, during the last days or during this night, or as the Minister of Oil and Energy, when he was on TV last night and warmly defended the appointment and proposal for the appointment of the new Governor of Statoil, did he not know?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-31.ana.ud1601e119	The situation has been that an electoral committee has normally been represented by the department. Odd Roger Enoksen has also spoken to Odjell and at an early stage asked him to remain silent. They have been in contact over the last few days, both with the chairman of the Electoral Committee and with the Odberg. In the light of those discussions, Odjell has taken the decision that he is no longer a candidate for the Statoil Governing Board, and the Electoral Committee has decided to continue its work. It has been assessed that, after the election committee gave its opinion, there has been a lot of anxiety, a lot of uncertainty. It's unfortunate for the company. In order to contribute to peace around Statoil, in order to contribute to the optimum development of the company, Odjjell, in consultation with the Electoral Committee, has come to the conclusion that he is no longer a candidate. It's a decision I think is a right decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-31.ana.ud1601e126	Dagfinn Højbråten – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-31.ana.ud1601e130	I think it's necessary to go deeper in this case because the government has gone very high and announced a new and active ownership policy, and one of the areas in which it was to be exercised was relative to government-owned or state-dominated companies. Now we see the first example of how this new ownership principle is applied in practice. I don't think it's been a particularly impressive performance. The question that hangs in the air here is about the Council of State Enoxens, when he asked Odjjell to stand as a candidate for leadership and leader, had the government in its back, and whether it is such that the government at that time had confidence in Odjjell as a candidate for leadership, but that the government has now lost that confidence. Can the Prime Minister answer that clearly?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-31.ana.ud1601e139	The Enoxen acted on behalf of the Government. Of course, the contacts that have been made have been on behalf of the Government. A government council acts on behalf of a government, so did Enoxen. It is not that the Government has any more or less confidence in a Chairman’s candidate, it is the Election Committee that has proposed a Chairman’s candidate. The Election Committee, in consultation with the candidate and after discussions with the Council of State, has concluded that he is no longer a candidate. Odjjell himself has announced that he is no longer a candidate, and I believe it is a correct decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-31.ana.ud1601e146	One comment and two questions. Since the end of March, when the government was in contact with Odjjell through the Danish Council of State of Enoksen and persuaded him to act as the chairman with assurance that the Prime Minister was behind such persuasion, it has been confirmed – at the latest yesterday – by the Danish Council of State of Enoksen that this was clearly confirmed. Then something has happened during the night. I am not going to ask questions or booklets about the fact that in such a situation, an oil and energy minister should definitely assess his position, after being treated like this by his own government. I'm not going to ask about it, and I'm not going to be so rude as to ask if the Prime Minister is cowardly as leader. I will ask two questions: can the Council confirm that during the last half day, read: last night, has personally been in contact with Odjell and put him under pressure to resign? Can he cancel what is in today's VG that it is contact this week with Gerd-Liv Valla that has led to this sad conclusion of poor leadership?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-31.ana.ud1601e157	I can confirm that the Council of State, i.e. the Minister of Oil and Energy, has been in contact with Odberg, even during the evening yesterday and today, because it is important for Statoil, for the company, and for the work that Odfel now announces that he is no longer a candidate. There has been contact between the Council of State, Odjell and the Electoral Committee on this matter, including on the last day. I can confirm that there is a telephone or some conversation with Gerd-Liv Valla that makes Odjjell now choose to resign as a candidate.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-31.ana.ud1601e164	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-31.ana.ud1601e167	This main question will probably follow the previous main question, because the Prime Minister is competent to avoid saying something about what has happened that the Government and the Prime Minister have obviously obtained a different assessment from the assessment given to Odjell. Odd Roger Enoksen called on 23 March this year and invited Odfjell – with a statement that he had the Prime Minister's support – to take on the position of director, after he had refused because he was not sure whether the profile was appropriate to it. The Electoral Committee has been fully aware of the work agreement with Vesta, which was also briefed by the Ministry. So there are no new things that have come up, and then it is of interest for Stortingen to know – in terms of the largest company in the country where the state owns 80 pst. – what has happened, and who controls these processes? What was the reason why the government actively gave messages tonight other than what they had given earlier? When there is reason to believe that it is because, among other things, Gerd-Liv Valla and others have called, it is because the story of the country's prime minister is that he is constantly changing principles and positions when Gerd-Liv Valla expresses something or makes contact. Therefore, the Prime Minister should put the cards on the table. What has happened that has led to the withdrawal of the Government's support for the work of the Electoral Committee?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-31.ana.ud1601e174	First of all, for the sake of order, that's not all that's in the newspapers about this process, that's right. Secondly, I think it is wrong for me to go into all the details of the procedure between the department, the government, and between the department and the election committee. But the crucial and central thing is the following: It is right that the Electoral Committee, with the support of the Ministry of Oil and Energy, and with the support of the Council of State acting on behalf of the Government, was a follower of and recommended that Odfjell be a candidate for the Governorship of Statoil. That's absolutely right. That's the essence, and it's been clear the whole time after the election committee made its statement. What is also clear is that after the election committee gave its opinion, there has been concern and uncertainty about both the process and whether this was an appropriate solution for Statoil. Then, in consultation with Odjjell, the Electoral Committee has come to the conclusion that the best thing for the company is that Odjjell is no longer a candidate, and then Odjjell has announced that he is withdrawing as a candidate to the position of Chairman of Statoil. The Electoral Committee has informed that it is continuing its work. As for the claims that there is a constant change in principles, I think it is a very serious mix of the following: it is important to have dialogue, and it is important to try to find common solutions, but it is not the same thing as not being committed to a coherent, comprehensive and responsible policy, whether it is wage settlement or government ownership. In the case of wage-fixing, it is a long tradition – even for governments that do not have participation from the Workers' Party – to have contact with the parties. I had it in all the settlements in this round and helped to get good solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-31.ana.ud1601e185	I don't think you'll find many examples of your husband's contact, or how the contact was initiated, as in this payroll. The important question is that once the Government had announced that its active industrial policy is about active ownership, there must also be active transparency in what has happened in these processes. It is part of the premise of a democracy that we know when the Government exercises its power, and how the Government exercises its power. What the Prime Minister is currently doing is trying to make it diffuse — remove it and remove the insight into how he governs and who is the precursor for it. The unrest that has occurred has been linked to the individual representatives of the Stortinget, to the party SV in government and to the LO. They are the ones who have faced the so-called unrest. Then it is not without reason that we ask questions about whether the Prime Minister can stand firm on what he has intended, or whether he is dangling around when there is a media discussion about that kind of position.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-31.ana.ud1601e194	I'm stuck with what I've always meant, and that's that we have to find the best solution for Statoil. I believe, after talking to the head of the Electoral Committee and the Minister for Oil and Energy, that the solution that the Electoral Committee and Odfjell have come up is the best solution for Statoil. I believe that in the light of the concerns and problems that have arisen since the election committee gave its opinion, and all the elements that have been included in the debate, both in terms of the content of the proposal and in terms of the process leading up to the proposal. There's full transparency about that. There has been a big and open debate on all those elements, and there is an overall assessment of the elements that make Odjell now announce that he is no longer a candidate. The government has said – both through the Minister of Oil and Energy and through me – that we agree with that resolution and that it is a decision that we believe is right and that serves the interests of Statoil.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-31.ana.ud1601e199	The President will accept three follow-up questions – first Siv Jensen.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-31.ana.ud1601e202	I think I should remind the Prime Minister that he is now answering questions in the national parliament. I note that it is obviously unpleasant for the Prime Minister to answer questions about quite serious allegations related to the matter of the Chairmanship of Statoil. But I expect the Prime Minister also to believe that the Storting has the right to know what has actually happened in this case, all the time the Storting is the legislator for what is happening in the nation. Then I think the Prime Minister can be neat enough to answer the questions he has now been asked, which he has not yet answered. Did the government invite Odjell to go off, or has he done this completely voluntarily without any pressure from the government after the state councilman Enoksen was on TV yesterday and presented this in a completely different way than the case looks today? And question two: Has Gerd-Liv Valla called the Prime Minister and put pressure on him in the same case?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-31.ana.ud1601e212	As I have explained earlier – and I can repeat it – the decision of Odfjell has been taken after discussions have taken place with the electoral committee, with the chairman of the electoral committee and with Odd Roger Enoksen. In those conversations it has been concluded that it is best for the company to find the solution that is now being found, and Odd Roger Enoksen has expressed support for that solution in those discussions. I also spoke with the chairman of the election committee, and I have stated that I also believe that it is a right decision of the election committee and Odjell has now taken. That's what's at the core. And what is the situation is that of course there have been conversations, and that we have expressed our agreement that we are now choosing the solution you choose in the electoral committee. Of course, I have also talked to a lot of others. I've talked to many people in the LO system about this, but it's not like there's any phones from there or decisions from there that make the government have now made this decision. [[Minister of State Jens Stoltenberg's cell phone rings – laughs in the hall]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-31.ana.ud1601e223	Maybe she's calling now!
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-31.ana.ud1601e230	Dagfinn Højbråten – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-31.ana.ud1601e233	It is quite right, as the Prime Minister says, that telephones are made in many directions. What is serious about the matter is that the Prime Minister now, through his response to Siv Jensen, clearly confirms that there has been pressure on a chairman candidate from the highest government to resign – a chairman candidate who was invited by the government, with the support of the Prime Minister, to take office, and who was given the best certificates by the responsible state council as late as the day's revision last night. I want to ask the Prime Minister if this matter in his opinion is an expression of how the Storting can expect the Government to exercise its declared new, active ownership over state-owned and state-dominated companies in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-31.ana.ud1601e242	We're committed to being an owner that helps to safeguard the interests of companies where we are owners, whether it's minority owners, it's whole-time state companies or that's where we have the majority of the shares. That means that we are also going to work in the electoral committee to find solutions that are collusive and that can reconcile and help the board to have the confidence that a board should have. It has happened before, and it will certainly happen again, that after an election committee presents its position, or after a proposal is made in different companies – whether the State is a partner or not – there will be reactions to the proposal of the election committee before a general meeting or before a business meeting, and that changes will then be made either from the election committee or from the company meeting. We are talking here about an electoral committee that is making a proposal, about an electoral committee that is reacting to it, about a candidate who is having a reaction, and who – after those reactions to the proposal of the electoral committee – will come to the conclusion that they do not want to stand on that proposal. It's going to happen again, in both private and state corporations.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-31.ana.ud1601e249	Lars Sponheim – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-31.ana.ud1601e252	Statoil is our largest and perhaps most important company. It's probably not a single company in Norway that carries as much of our well-being as Statoil does, and it's also that with 80 pst. ownership is the property of the Norwegian people. It's so important that Statoil is something we all trust and have a relationship with, and it's elevated above what had to be political quiver. I now see that there is a tendency to make a struggle between the political left and the political right to take power in Statoil. It is a tragedy for Norway, and almost to all of us who are not on any of the wings of politics, but want a Statoil for all citizens. What is now happening is an attempt to stigmatise political an honorary, a mere businessman and a socially oriented person like Odfjell – as we have seen – and who is now to be replaced by a representative of the political left. I see that as a tragedy for Statoil. Will the Prime Minister now use all his influence to ensure that there is a leadership, a government and a relationship around Statoil that enables all citizens to have confidence in Statoil in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-31.ana.ud1601e261	This is precisely what Lars Sponheim stresses, namely that all citizens can have the necessary confidence in Statoil, which means that I believe that the decision taken by the electoral committee and Odfjell is a right decision. I believe that once Odfjell and the Electoral Committee have taken the decision they have taken, it is an expression of a desire to find a solution that will give us a leadership in Statoil and a chairman in Statoil who has the broad, uniting function that a Governor in Statoil should have. So that's just the reasons that Sponheim stresses, which is one of the reasons why we have supported and agreed with the decision of the election committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-31.ana.ud1601e268	The size goes on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-31.ana.ud1601e271	I want to change the theme, but I guess the theme that we've been dealing with now, we're going to get back to in the other context. There is absolutely a need for a cross-political boost in the care of the elderly in the coming days. By 2050 we get twice as many people over 67 years of age as we have today, and the number of the oldest, that is. 90 years and up, will be between three and six times in the same period. There is great reason to believe that new generations of older people will have completely different expectations and demands on the content of the care provision. We have successfully implemented an ageing plan with cross-political efforts, and spent 40 billion kroner on it in the last few years. It has given us many new, beautiful nursing homes and nursing homes. There is now a need to focus at least on this level in the years to come, focusing on the quality of services, focusing on sufficient personnel and focusing on the content of what will be the care of the future for the very elderly. The Christian People's Party has initiated a cross-political commitment to this, and has received a positive response from the Government and from all the other parties. We've all given our input to the Minister of Health and Care. Therefore, it is with some wonder that we note that despite the fact that the Prime Minister stated in the Newspaper on 6 May that the Government would bring this matter to the Stortinget before the summer, we have now received a letter that the matter has unfortunately been postponed to the autumn, because it has to be seen in connection with other plans that the Government is working on. There may be good reasons for this, but I would like to ask the Prime Minister: can we now expect a concrete and binding plan, with money, to the Stortingen to the autumn, or are there any new investigations and delays in progress?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-31.ana.ud1601e280	Firstly, I think it is very good that the representative Højbråten is concerned that we should get a broad political agreement on the effort to help the elderly, ensure good care for the elderly. Secondly, I also agree with the representative of Højbråten that it has been done very well, and that it is very important to be proud of what has been achieved in recent years, from the 1990s until today, not least the construction of many nursing homes, and that a formidable effort is being made in this sector by all those who work there today. It's important to learn from the good experience when we're going to solve the remaining problems. The remaining challenges in the care of the elderly are partly linked to the fact that there are still gaps in places in some areas, for example: in the case of nursing homes, but above all, it is linked to the quality and content of the offers. It's about hands. It's about the number of employees who can give the quality offer we're working on giving the elderly. Therefore, nothing is happening to the elderly pending their own notification. After all, there is a sharp escalation already taking place by the fact that the new government and the new majority have made sure that the appropriations for the care of the elderly have increased sharply with what was in the 2006 budget. Of what has been included in the municipal bill for 2007, an estimated extra NOK 8 billion has been allocated to municipalities. We know that about 40 pst. of which care and health care are involved. There is a significant increase in the efforts of the elderly. Then we've thought that it's right to make a plan that's seen in the context of the things we're doing, also what we're doing in relation to the state budget for 2007. Therefore, the message comes early in the autumn, not late in the summer. I can't believe that it plays a significant role in Storting's treatment, because Stortingen wouldn't work on this during the summer holidays anyway.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-31.ana.ud1601e290	There are probably large parts of the Storting that do a significant amount of work even during the summer. My point and my question were related to whether we get an obligating plan of money linked to, or whether we get a big-time message that has the more character of an investigation. It is true that there is money in this year's budget. The funds in the next year's budget have not yet been allocated. It is still such that the Storting grants them, even though the Government has given its signals. Very much of the funds allocated to the municipalities will now go to increased wages. There are many who work in municipalities, who are happy, but there will not necessarily be better and more services for the elderly as a result. I repeat my question to the Prime Minister: Is it such that the Government comes up with an obliging plan of old age linked to the state budget with which there is money, so that we can now get a strong promise of what we had with the 40 billion in the previous periods?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-31.ana.ud1601e301	There is going to be money to upgrade the care of the elderly. How we want to formulate this in the big message, we're not done, because we're not done with the big message. But what's absolutely certain is that this government is going to make sure not only a plan and not just a big deal where we're announcing money, but we're going to make sure that it's actually granted money. It's more important than just how we formulate this in a big message. We've made sure there was money in the 2006 budget. We have proposed that there will be new money in the 2007 budget. We are talking about significantly more money than the previous government decided to leave for the care of the elderly in 2006, because they put up much less effort in the municipalities, and almost half of it goes to the elderly and health.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-31.ana.ud1601e306	The President will accept three follow-up questions – first Harald T. Nesvik.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-31.ana.ud1601e309	The Prime Minister is now clearly failing to answer the question of whether there will be money in relation to the plan to be submitted for the autumn. The Prime Minister here says in his reply to Høybråten that it doesn't matter whether this comes early in the autumn or late in the summer. Well, it plays a major role, because it has to do with the ability of municipalities and the ability to plan the actions to be taken. My question to the Council of State is: will this also be seen in the financing system itself related to the care of the elderly? It has very little purpose just to bring a pot of money to the municipalities and sketch some measures, without putting this into practice and making sure that the money goes for the purposes that the accumulation and government wants them to go to, cf. The ageing plan, which was largely a housing reform and no care reform. Will the Prime Minister ensure that this will be a form of ringing, so that the inhabitants of the municipalities are assured that the money is used for what they are meant to be used for?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-31.ana.ud1601e316	We are working on what kind of instruments we think are best, how the measures should be designed, and how the distribution of responsibilities should be between municipalities and the state, and that is exactly why we are going to present a big deal. And before we present it, we haven't concluded on these points, because that's what we're working on and will present to the Storting when the big picture is ready. What I'm saying, is that either the big message adds up to the use of tools that way or that way, we're absolutely sure that there's going to be a need for more money. Therefore, we have not only announced that we are going to make plans for more money, but we have 1: provided significantly more money this year than the parties on the civil side have in previous budgets, and 2: announced new further escalations for 2007. It is money that goes largely to care for the elderly. I have not met a single municipal politician who is opposed to good care for the elderly. The problem is they don't have enough money. Now they've got more money. We have a lot of examples of how care for the elderly has been strengthened, at least where it has been weakened, as a result of the extra money that has come from the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-31.ana.ud1601e323	No pay - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-31.ana.ud1601e326	I have a feeling that the Prime Minister may at this point need a little encouragement. I can encourage him by informing him that the latest KOSTRA figures showed that in 2005 there was an increase in the number of annual jobs of 2000 in the care and care sector. That means that his government has got a pretty good starting point. A very large amount of work has also been done by the previous government with the big message that is now being announced has been delayed. Everything was actually finished when the government of Stoltenberg took over. Let me also remind the Prime Minister that in the election campaign last year, there was a lot of talk that it was going to shine out of old age care, probably as much as Soria Moria. Then there is reason to wonder that you are not able to keep the promise to the Storting to present this quality report before the summer, with a concrete explanation of what the famous 10,000 year works, which you have always used as mantras, should really be for something, in terms of competence, where they will come from, what education – all that we have asked for now for half a year without getting answers.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-31.ana.ud1601e333	The crucial thing is what's actually done. And what I have now underlined in two answers is this: it is already doing a lot to strengthen care for the elderly. The fact that we now ensure that municipalities can employ more people in the care of the elderly is a strengthening of the care of the elderly, of the quality of care for the elderly, both in terms of content and in terms of the number of places. The fact that we received some money in the revised budget to strengthen training in the care of the elderly, health education, has also helped to strengthen the care of the elderly. We're already doing a lot of things. In addition, we have notified a big message where we have an overall review of the use of the instrument. But regardless of that big message, we already know today that there is a need for more money, and the money is already granted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-31.ana.ud1601e338	Odd Einar Dørum – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-31.ana.ud1601e341	If you are to do good care for the elderly, you need warm hands. But if you are to have warm hands, you must also have free hands, and this government has arranged for many to be needed as teachers, as pre-school teachers, and for the care work that is the theme here. I have since addressed this issue both with the Prime Minister and part of his government, and it is all very simple: Where will these free hands come from? Is the Prime Minister willing to say to fellow citizens in the EEA area in a warm, direct and clear way that they are cordially welcome to Norway? We will actually do our utmost to ensure that warm and free hands can get a job in our country. Is the Prime Minister willing to make sure that people thus have a chance to build good lives for Norwegian citizens, but also for themselves? In other words, is he willing to reach out a red and outstretched hand, even though we know that LO and the trade movement at this point also have their edge points?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-31.ana.ud1601e346	The answer to that question is yes. Of course, we warmly welcome citizens from the other EEA countries. There are many, and these are new members. They are welcome to work in Norway either directly in the care of the elderly or in other areas that can release ethnic Norwegian labour to the care of the elderly. In any case, labour immigration helps to strengthen the Norwegian economy, and enables us to do the tasks of care for the elderly better than we could otherwise have done. And that's why we're also followers of this. We want labour immigration from the EEA area, but we do not want to go on an agreement with Norwegian pay and working conditions. That is why we say yes to labour immigration from the EEA, but no to social dumping, and have put forward a number of proposals on it. Then we get warm hands in the care of the elderly, but we also get good and decent working conditions for everyone working in the care of the elderly.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-31.ana.ud1601e352	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-31.ana.ud1601e355	I would like to take this opportunity, at the last direct meeting with the Prime Minister of the Grand Duchy before the summer, to raise some of the things that could be the most important thing in the summer, namely the WTO negotiations, which are now at stake. We know that there must be significant breakthroughs here during this summer, we must achieve goals and find a solution in such an important area of world society as new and modernized rules for world trade. Let me be so downgrading in a bit of a hard spontaneous question hour to say from many years of political work and experience that my personal view of the WTO and Norway's necessary concessions and place in this, I think, is very much in line with the views of the Prime Minister, and also the views of our new Minister of Foreign Affairs, as I have seen that he has expressed it. For example, if Norway is to be able to make a positive contribution to finding a solution, it is necessary to grant real concessions in the field of agriculture, but it is also the case that it does not have a mandate from this house to negotiate Norwegian agriculture. It's not black and white that's the option, there's a large space for action between these extremes. Even though we have already seen concessions Norway has given so far, there has been a fear of pain from the League of Bonds and the Center Party. It's, it turns out, the horror of pain that would have got red cards on the football course – there's games. It has not yet been concluded that real concessions are being made in the sense that this leads to increased imports into Norway. There is «air» in customs walls, as well as in articles published in the Official Journal of Bergen in the past few days and also referred to in NTB yesterday, where the Minister of Agriculture threatens to stop bartering free trade and alerts that it may be appropriate for Norway to stop new rounds in the WTO if this is not good enough for Norway: that one must give real concessions and that one does not escape to negotiate «air» in customs walls. My question is: will the Prime Minister assure the Storting that we are talking about real concessions, i.e. increased imports into Norway, for example. through increased quotas, and can the Prime Minister guarantee that it is not appropriate for Norway to obstruct, stop, WTO, withdraw or prevent an agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-31.ana.ud1601e364	What is the government's basis for negotiation in the WTO negotiations is the basis for which it has been detailed in the bodies of the Storting and which have broad support in the Storing. One has gone through in detail both customs duties, other types of import restrictions, different types of yellow and green boxes, etc., so that with regard to the concrete arrangement for the WTO negotiations on which the Government is of course behind, which is anchored in the Storting, it is explained in detail, and that is what we are negotiating on the basis of. In short, the main essence is that we are prepared to make concessions, and there are concessions that will affect Norwegian agriculture. At the same time, we are committed to achieving a balanced agreement that enables us to safeguard Norwegian agricultural interests and to safeguard other interests, such as: the fishing interests. And on this basis it is negotiated. These are demanding and difficult negotiations. We hope that it is possible to reach such a balanced agreement, but it is too early and not possible to say with certainty, because there is too much today that is unclear in the WTO negotiations. But I hope there is a broad consensus on Norwegian positions in the WTO negotiations. The government stands on them and fights for them.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-31.ana.ud1601e369	I interpret the answer to the Prime Minister there – and I share that interpretation – that in the mandate of the Government from the Storting, there should be real concessions. And real concessions in the WTO negotiations in this context are that it actually increases imports into Norway, not least from the Third World. It is possible to combine with maintaining a lot of Norwegian agriculture — but there should be real concessions. What has emerged in the last few days is that it keeps giving away air, not realities, I understand that the Prime Minister says it is not relevant for Norway. I'm happy about that, and I'm excited that this has to be followed up during the summer. I would also like to express to the Prime Minister the view that I believe that from the opposition and members of the enlarged Foreign Affairs Committee we are ready at any time this summer to give the necessary mandates and concessions and to have a dialogue. For the Prime Minister, the advantage is that he has an overall opposition behind him to find this balance point, and avoids unnecessary screams and noise of non-reality in WTO negotiations.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-31.ana.ud1601e376	I am pleased that the opposition is constructive and is behind the Government, so that it is possible to establish joint negotiating positions for Norway as a broad majority on the Stortinget stand behind. It increases the strength of Norway in these important negotiations. We have agreed that we should be able to grant concessions in line with what is anchored in the Stortinget. What's air and what's real, you can probably have a long debate about. It is crucial – whether it is called air or real, or a combination of air and real – that the Government negotiates on the basis of what the Storting has agreed to, and that is what the Government is behind us being prepared to accept in the negotiations.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-31.ana.ud1601e383	The President will accept three follow-up questions – first Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-31.ana.ud1601e386	In the case of Norwegian customs duties, the fact is that they are relatively liberal and that Norwegian customs duties can be substantially reduced before this affects the income of the farmers and the price level at home. So the farmers keep their own incomes with a much larger tariff cut than the government has set up. Therefore, it is a little worrying how the Norwegian WTO debate has developed, by the fact that both the Minister of Agriculture and actors who have a strong influence on the policy of this government, for example. Norges Bondelag, has a very one-sided picture of this debate. My question is: Will the Prime Minister be involved in this debate and will the Prime Minister contribute to a more nuanced picture in the Norwegian public debate on what opportunities Norway has in the WTO?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-31.ana.ud1601e395	I believe it is very important that we also look at the possibilities of WTO cooperation. This applies both to agriculture and, of course, to other Norwegian industries: Fish is one area, the service sector is another, and other Norwegian industrial products. Firstly, there are opportunities in non-agricultural areas that we need to ensure and ensure through the WTO negotiations, and secondly, the WTO Agreement can also give us opportunities in agriculture. This is precisely why – and I am also helping to talk about it when I travel around – we need to invest in the value creation programme in agriculture, that we need to invest in developing new products, quality products, and that we also have export potential for some Norwegian agricultural products. We must then bet on quality, on niche production and on other specific Norwegian opportunities, and by doing so we will also be able to take advantage of opportunities offered by the WTO agreement. At the same time, we must recognise that there will of course be some demanding changes based on the negotiating positions occupied by Norway, and if they are reflected in the agreement, it will also mean conversion for Norwegian agriculture.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-31.ana.ud1601e402	Torbjørn Hansen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-31.ana.ud1601e405	The Official Journal of Bergen has shown in a series of notices how the Norwegian position in the current WTO negotiations will contribute to a limited increase in trade for poor countries, and that we have a customs system with so much air that we will in practice tolerate significant reductions without much impact on agriculture. In the series of articles, researchers are also criticising Norway in view of the fact that we have taken the lead in setting the current tariffs so high that any future cuts will have little effect. For example, the highest rates of duty are: 600 pst., and reductions in these will be of little importance. The government's outcome in the negotiations to increase existing import quotas instead of introducing allowances in relation to annual consumption is, according to the experts, a new attempt to limit free trade for the poor countries. And when the Minister of Agriculture in Bergen's Official Journal threatens that if the result is not good enough for the farmers in this round, Norway will leave the WTO negotiations, my question here is whether we see the government's real policy in relation to international solidarity and free trade for poor countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-31.ana.ud1601e414	I believe that the most important thing here is what is actually the Norwegian positions. Although there is a lot of discussion, it is that in the case of Norwegian negotiating positions, what tariffs we are open to do with, what we are not interested in doing anything about, what kind of changes in Norwegian agricultural policy we are open to, etc., there is agreement. It's detailed, both from the previous government and this government, explained those positions. They have been adjusted and developed by both the previous and the current government, and there has been a connection in Storting’s organs to the Norwegian positions. That is why I feel that there will be a bit of a strange debate when the opposition criticises the Government for the negotiating positions in the WTO, to which it is in agreement from almost a unanimous increase. It's the positions we're looking for, it's the positions we're going to try to secure a balanced agreement, and that's the positions we're negotiating to try to achieve.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-31.ana.ud1601e422	Bjørg Tørersdal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-31.ana.ud1601e425	The Christian People's Party is committed to continuing to negotiate in the WTO on the basis of what has been said in this debate until now, with a view both to increasing the market share of poor countries and to securing Norwegian agricultural interests. In the fall, Mr Lundtägen from the Senterpartiet said that the Soria Moria declaration means that a loss for the farmers will be compensated for crowns with transfers from the state. And it was said in a reply earlier here that there will be changes for agriculture, and that one must invest in new niches in order to maintain an agriculture in Norway. But can one expect the Soria Moria declaration to continue to mean that one by the state will have transfers at the level of today, after the WTO negotiations have been concluded?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-31.ana.ud1601e432	First, I just want to make it clear that I believe that Norwegian agriculture must invest in more than niche products, but that is one of several possibilities. I believe that the value creation programme that has been in agriculture shows that there is potential in a good number of areas, and we must try to develop it further. At the same time, it is clear that there will be adjustments. There have been significant changes over several decades, under changing governments. What the Soria Moria statement says, and to which I also feel that it is a connection from, for example, The Christian People's Party and other parties here on the Stortinget, are that the agricultural workers, the farmers, are going to have income developments in line with other groups. It's solid. That's what the government is working for. At the same time, we are prepared for the WTO agreement to limit what kind of support you can provide in the future, and we will have to look at that in the light of what kind of agreement is actually being reached.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-31.ana.ud1601e441	The story goes to the last main question in the oral questioning process – Jan Tore Sanner.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-31.ana.ud1601e444	I would like to return to the question of the Prime Minister's and Government's management of the Governor's position in Statoil. When this becomes a matter, it has nothing to do with Odjell as a person, but it has to do with how to handle a state participation in a company that also has private owners. During this debate, the Prime Minister confirmed three points. He has confirmed that State Council Odd Roger Enoxsen on 23 March called Odfjell and asked him to take up the job as Governor of Statoil, and confirmed that Odfjell had the confidence of the Prime Minister. Secondly, the Prime Minister has confirmed that no new information has been received from Odd Roger Enoksen calling Odfjell on 23 March and until today. The third is that the Prime Minister has confirmed that the State Council Odd Roger Enoksen called Odfjell last night, and that the result is that Odfjell has drawn his candidacy. The Prime Minister has not responded to Mr Enoksen's pressure on Mr Odjell in his conversation last night, and the Prime Minister has been unclear about his contact with Mr Lo and Mr Gerd-Liv Valla in this matter. What remains is a justification from the Prime Minister that there has been concern in the Workers' Party's own ranks, concerns in the LO and concerns in the SV in relation to Odfjell's candidacy. Does the Prime Minister think that there has been good leadership from the Prime Minister and from the State as a partner in Statoil in this matter, when he expresses strong confidence in a candidate on 23 March, when it is confirmed that no new conditions have emerged until today, and when there is concern in the Left side of the Workers' Party, SV and LO that is the reason why the Government has obviously changed its position?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-31.ana.ud1601e459	First of all, let me say that the presentation that Jan Tore Sanner now gives of what I have confirmed and have not confirmed, of what I have said and have not said, of what I am ready, and what I am unclear about, I do not agree. I don't think it's an adequate production. Secondly, I believe that the representative should deal with what I myself say. Let me repeat briefly the following: Of course, what I can confirm is that Johan Fredrik Odfjell has informed the Election Committee in Statoil that he is no longer a candidate. The second thing I can confirm, of course, and which has been confirmed multiple times, is that the Council of State has spoken to Odjjell, both in the past and in the past, that he has asked him to remain silent, and that he has now had conversations with Odjjell in the past 24 hours where he has expressed his agreement to the decision that Odjjell is no longer a candidate. It is justified that, after the election committee gave its opinion, uncertainties and concerns have arisen, doubts have been raised as to whether this is the best solution for Statoil, questions have been raised as to whether he can have the uniting function of a Governor of Statoil, and there have been some questions relating to the process itself. All of this has led to the creation of the electoral committee, and that Odjjell has come to the conclusion that what serves the company the best, is that he is no longer a candidate. That's the situation. Then I have confirmed – and I would like to repeat it to Jan Tore Sanner – that it is Gerd-Liv Valla who has announced this. This is the result of Odfjell's finding that he believes that the company is best served by his no-show, that the election committee has announced that it will continue its work, and that, overall, everyone believes that it is the solution that serves the company the best.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-31.ana.ud1601e468	If the matter had not been so serious, I would have said that the Prime Minister's presentation was quite comical. I affirmed that the Prime Minister confirmed that it was a phone call from Odd Roger Enoksen to Odfjell on March 23. The Prime Minister has confirmed that. The Prime Minister has also confirmed that there has been a telephone call last night from Odd Roger Enoksen to Odfjell, and the Prime Minister has confirmed that there has been no new relationship since 23 March and until today. It is therefore the concern of the Prime Minister's own ranks that must be the direct reason why the Government and the Prime Minister have obviously changed their mind. I would like to repeat my question as to whether the Prime Minister believes this is good leadership, both in terms of his own ranks and not least in relation to the state and the state's position as a partner in Norway's largest company.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-31.ana.ud1601e477	What is good leadership is taking responsibility for the company. And what is taking responsibility for the company in this situation that is now, is to say that it's right, that there's a decision I agree with, what Odjjell is now doing. He does because he takes responsibility for Statoil. I agree and believe that what the election committee is doing now is to take responsibility for the company by continuing its work. What is leadership is just doing what serves Statoil the best. And what the government is now doing, what the election committee is now doing, and what Odjjell is now doing, is all justified in what serves Statoil the best. I want to repeat that Sanner's presentation of what I say and don't say is on Sanner's account. I think it's more important to listen to what I'm actually saying, and not to Sanner's exodus. It is indisputable that, after the Electoral Committee gave its opinion, there has been a discussion of both the process and the content of the vote, which has led the Odberg and the Electoral Committee to conclude that they believe the right thing is that Odjell is no longer a candidate. And of course, there has been contact between the Council of State, Odjjell and the Election Committee on this both the past day and the week before.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-31.ana.ud1601e488	The President will accept three follow-up questions – first Siv Jensen.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-31.ana.ud1601e491	The Prime Minister confirms that the Government has had a lot of involvement and contact in this matter, so I think it's a little strange that the Prime Minister here pushes the election committee in front of him, all the time the Enoxe actually on behalf of the Government – for it confirmed the Prime Minister instead – has both called upon Odjell to stand still and be duly involved in the process all the way. It seems so strange that I actually think this should be given a little more attention in the Enlargement's Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs. There is also now reason to ask the Prime Minister about the process further. What kind of criteria and qualifications does the Prime Minister think should underpin the choice of directors in key companies in Norway when this is being politicised? Is it the batch book to decide which people are to blame for this type of work? Or are there other types of qualifications that the Prime Minister believes are essential in order to be the Chairperson of Statoil and other important companies?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-31.ana.ud1601e498	Firstly, I think it is important to bear in mind that it will also be in other companies and organisations that, after a committee has tabled a proposal and there is a discussion, a concern, an uncertainty, which causes the election committee to see that the proposal does not have the unifying function that it is hoped to have, there are electoral committees, candidates or both before the amended vote and proposals. It's happened in companies before. It's happened in organizations before. It may well be only in the Progress Party it never happens, but otherwise it happens in most organisations and companies I know that an election committee can change its proposal when there is a debate on the proposal of the Election Committee. That's what happens now in Statoil, and that's what's going to happen again in Norwegian companies, whether they're private or public. Then, of course, there are qualifications that should be decisive for who is denouncing different positions in Statoil. Neither the years when Statoil has been parted stately nor wholly stately, we have had some party policing of Statoil, and we don't want it in the future either.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-31.ana.ud1601e506	Line Henriette Holten Heimdal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-31.ana.ud1601e509	The demand for the new Governor of Statoil is linked in the debate to the desire for an active ownership policy by the state. More consideration shall be given to socio-economic interests, as claimed. Today's announcement raises several questions, but one of them is: What ownership policy is changing today's expression? Should Statoil sell cheaper gas to Norwegian gas plants? Should Statoil stop taking commercial considerations? Should Statoil slow down its international missions? At all, I want to land on the question: What ownership policy is changing today's expression?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-31.ana.ud1601e516	Statoil shall continue to be a commercial company engaged in the best management of the resources available to it and in providing revenue to its owners, the State and the private owners. That's of course Statoil's task, and I can't imagine that any government in Statoil will mean anything other than that. Now it's the election committee that's going to continue its work. This will be done by the Electoral Committee, based on the desire to find a candidate who best cares for Statoil's interests. There is no scheme to change the basic objectives we have for Statoil as a company.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-31.ana.ud1601e521	Lars Sponheim – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-31.ana.ud1601e524	As late as last night, during the Day Revy and broadcasts on TV 2, I think many of us witnessed seeing a harsh and strong oil and energy minister who, on behalf of the government, defended Odjell as the leader. It is such that with fractions in your own camp – in this case in the Workers' Party and SV – it is difficult to stand straight up for what is an unpopular position internally. That's tough. Many of us were impressed by the manner in which the Minister of Oil and Energy presented himself to the Prime Minister and the Government in this context. So from these newscasts last night until now, something has happened that has turned this completely around. Unfortunately, I cannot see anything but a severely weakened oil and energy minister, who has been taken down by the Prime Minister in this situation. Of course, it is a problem for the Government and the Prime Minister, but also a problem for Norway, which in this context has suffered a severe cutback and a weakening of the Minister of Oil and Energy. The question becomes difficult, but let me ask you, does the Prime Minister see that he has a problem?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-31.ana.ud1601e533	Minister of Oil and Energy Odd Roger Enoksen is doing an excellent job. He has managed the state ownership in a good way, and he has contributed to us getting a solution that I believe serves the company. That's what Odd Roger Enoksen has done in close dialogue with me, in close dialogue with the Government, and he's doing it because he's dedicated to ensuring a common solution, a solution where the management of Statoil and the board there can work best for the company. For this reason, he has also expressed his agreement with the assessments made by Odjell and with the evaluations made by the Election Committee. All of this does Enoch because we agree that this is the best way to take care of Statoil's interests.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-31.ana.ud1601e538	The oral question procedure is now over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-31.ana.ud1601e556	Let me predict the remark that I hope that the Minister of Health and Health in his reply will speak with greater authority than the Prime Minister just did. I would first like to point to the extent of the efforts currently being made in the Norwegian health system by private actors. Over the last few years, we have had a very happy decline in waiting time for most types of hospital treatment. It also means that the average waiting time for individual patients has fallen sharply. This was part of the purpose of the hospital reform, which was quite a broad consensus in Stortinget. On this point, it can be seen that the hospital reform has taken effect, and it has worked as agreed. One of the main reasons for this is that there has been a significant use of private operators who have made a qualitatively very good effort. User satisfaction is at the top of those treated by these institutions, and cost-effectiveness is also very high. At the same time, this is a necessary part of the principle of free hospital choice for users. If the free hospital choice is to function as intended, it assumes that there are reasonable alternatives to choose from. With «reasonable» I aim at alternatives that are within reach. In fact, much of the surgical service related to skeletal and muscle disorders, i.e. orthopaedic surgery, and visual problems, eye disorders, are diseases typically affecting the elderly population. It shows all the statistics that patients who benefit from these services are patients who are in part very old and who therefore also have limited mobility. For such patients, having to travel in connection with having treatment carried out in itself would be a negative and, in part, a health-damaging factor in this picture. Then to the private hospital activity. The most recent figures available are the 2004 figures. They show that from 2003 to 2004, there has been a rather significant increase, which means that in some health regions — for example, Middle Norway – in the case of elective surgery requiring hospitalization, one is up to 11 pst. the operations have been carried out by and purchased from private operators. Although the absolute figures show significant variations between health regions, the trend has been quite clear across all: there has been a significant increase in the use of private operators. I repeat that all the available information shows that this has been in the interests of healthcare users. All available information shows that those who have received these treatment services are very satisfied with their quality and with their short waiting time. Now we're in a situation where the Soria Moria doctrine – with that I aim at the principle statement in the Soria Moria Declaration that reducing the use of private healthcare providers – is about to destroy the positive development that we saw during the previous government. Let me just mention a simple number to show you this. The largest player who sells private health insurance in Norway, Vertical Assistance, has experienced a dramatic increase in the sales of such insurance. As far as 2006 – and we are not yet halfway through the calendar year – 7,000 new insurances have been sold, as many as they were sold throughout the calendar year 2005. That means that in the current year we are going to see more than a double in terms of people's willingness to bet on privately paid health insurance. Another reason for concern is that there are several places, such as: in Haugesund – there has been a very long and very swirly process in the Health West, which there is reason to consider as, to say the least, sub-optimal in terms of professional handling – a clear trend is that an increasing number of patients pay the treatment fully themselves, because it is the only solution they find satisfactory when the public is no longer willing to use private providers for public account. The same is reported from Eastfold, where it is also said that there is a clear increase in patients who are willing to turn up money from their own wallet for treatment. If this trend is to continue, it will result in a two-part healthcare system, where those who have a good private economy – and fortunately many people in this country, including older people – buy treatment at their own expense, while those who do not have the same private economy have to find themselves in a good position in the queues that have so little to grow again, that is, the opposite trend of what we have had in recent years. My challenge to the Council of State is: Does the Government believe that short waiting time and real freedom of choice in healthcare should be reserved for patients with a good private economy? It will be the effect if these developments continue. Now, in the rhetoric of the current government parties, it is said that there is a fundamental difference between what is called commercial providers, and what is called ideal providers in the private sector. It is not easy to see what this rhetorical distinction really means in practice. Private-practitioners constitute the very core wall of the Norwegian primary health service, and there is no doubt that they operate commercially, in the sense that they have a significant economic benefit of their own work, of their own efforts. The same can be said of hospital doctors, who received a very significant wage increase between 2002 and 2004. Today, a hospital doctor earns an average of 57,814 kroner per person. months. A permanent resident has a net average income of SEK 736 000 calculated in 2003 coins. What's the principal distinction that you're so concerned about? What is the distinction between this and the other private health care actors? For my part, this distinction is impossible to see. Let me finally return to the question of free hospital choice. The studies available show that users are increasingly actively applying their right to freedom of choice, but at the same time the same data – I refer here to the Health Economic Research Programme, which has just presented a report – show that the vast majority of those who have performed hip operations choose an offer that is geographically close or very close. For many, this has been a private provider in recent years. Today in Health-West you will no longer be able to benefit from such an offer if you live in Rogaland, Stavanger and Haugesund. So you'll have to move to Bergen in the future to do the same thing. Finally, does the Council of State believe that the general principle for the organisation of Norwegian healthcare should be what serves users qualitatively and quantitatively, or should it be the Soria Moria doctrine?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-31.ana.ud1601e584	Let me first of all make it clear that for this government, the patient's concern is the most important thing. That's why we're doing politics, and that's why I'm the Minister of Health. It's in no way contrary to the Soria Moria statement, the sail of Inge Wage has repeated it up to several times from the pulpit here today. The situation is such that more and more patients are being treated in Norwegian hospitals, and waiting time has been significantly reduced in the years following the hospital reform. From the introduction of the hospital reform in 2002 to 2005, the waiting time for patients who were still waiting for treatment decreased from 194 days to 88 days in the third tertiary in 2005, as the interpellanten also said. New figures for the first tertiary this year show that the waiting time has fallen further since 2005 and is now down for 86 days. It is therefore not correct that the waiting time for hospital treatment has generally increased, as the representative of Wohnung tries to produce it. The numbers I have mentioned apply as I said to those who are still waiting. But if we use waiting times for those who have started treatment, we have an even more positive picture. In 2002, it took 88 days before the patient entered the treatment system within the somatic area. In the first tertiary in 2005, we were down for 80 days, and per year. The first tertiary this year, we are down to 68 days waiting time for those who have started treatment. The steady downward trend in the curve shows that regional health enterprises are now in a positive trend in shortening the waiting time after the referral has been received and until the treatment is started. Of course, we're not in the goal, but we're on the right path. It is true, as the representative on the pay side says, that various private actors have contributed significantly to the important work of reducing waiting times when the treatment queues were very long. In recent years, there has been a significant increase in patient treatment. It is important to make full use of public health capacity. This has not always been the case in recent years. Then the private actors are a useful supplement to the public offer. However, as you know, the government has said that we will limit the use of commercial healthcare actors. They provide largely day surgery services, but it's not about having any prohibition at all. Nearly 96 pst. all investigations and treatments triggering ISF reimbursement are carried out under public authority. The government wants it to continue to be such that the need for specialist health services is primarily met by public hospitals. As the interpellant is well known, this government wants to differentiate slightly more between private non-profit and private commercial actors in the specialist health service. This means that hospitals and health institutions owned and run by non-governmental organisations should be ensured good and stable framework conditions through public contracts. At the same time, we will limit the scope of purchasing agreements between regional health businesses and private commercial niche hospitals. We therefore differentiate – knowingly and willfully – between private voluntary or non-profit actors and private operators for commercial purposes. Public funds shall be directed primarily towards priority areas in order to ensure good and equivalent health care for all those who need it. The government has given a very clear lead to a high priority for certain patient groups. These include patients with mental health problems, drug abuse, chronic disease patients and patients who need rehabilitation and rehabilitation. It is a fact that public hospitals have far more complex and demanding tasks than some private actors. Public hospitals continue to have sole responsibility for acute conditions, for patients with more severe and complex disorders, and for simple interventions requiring hospitalisation due to the age of the patient or general medical conditions. In addition, public hospitals have extensive and demanding tasks, including: preparedness, education and research. Therefore, supplies of services and costs are not directly comparable. However, I would like to make it clear that there should still be a room for private operators to participate in the overall provision of services when needed, through agreements with regional health businesses. We know that access to healthcare varies between the five regions and between different disease groups and disciplines. I believe that the overall treatment capacity of public health services can be better exploited, inter alia: by facilitating an even better division of work in hospitals and between hospitals. In the order documents of the regional health companies for the current year, I have therefore requested that they monitor possible over- and under-capacity in hospitals. This survey shall be used as a basis for any changes that may be necessary to achieve an even better division of work, both between hospitals and between regions. Regional health enterprises are now critically considering the scope of future contracts with private commercial suppliers. The number and extent of such agreements must be seen in the light of the need for the service in question and how the need for otherwise can be met in the region in question. Minor use of private commercial operators could have implications for some patient groups. I stress that the goal is still to keep waiting times low, and that availability should be good for the patient. In order to ensure that patients who require the most should receive treatment first, patients with the right to the necessary health care should be given priority over patients who do not have the right. We see that there are also wide variations between regional health businesses in the allocation of the right to necessary health care. The proportion of patients entitled to the necessary health care varies from 55 pst to 90 pst. between regional health establishments. I have given clear guidance signals that regional health businesses are to ensure that the criteria for the provision of the necessary health care are as uniform as possible in all regions. And I want to say, it should just be missing! We cannot at all say we are satisfied with the waiting time for treatment in all areas. The waiting time for children and adolescents with mental illness is far too long. In the order documents of regional health companies for the current year, I have given clear signals that waiting time for children and young people needs to be shorter and that availability needs to be improved. In mid-June, I await a proposal from a working group that has investigated the possibility of a separate waiting guarantee for this important group, which is struggling with mental illness and drug problems and is under 23 years old. I have also initiated a pilot project in four municipalities in Hedmark, where the goal is shorter waiting time for hospital treatment for patients. The local population of these municipalities will be assisted by local patients, so that they can quickly avail themselves of the right to health care when they need it, i.e. when you need to get into a hospital, you have to get there as soon as possible, and there should be people employed to do that job. Using the right to free choice of hospitals will be important in this project. At the same time, we were also tested whether such an additional service would lead to an even better organisation of hospitals, thereby making better use of the capacity. In those municipalities where this has been tried, the waiting time has decreased significantly. It's going to be interesting to see if it also happens when we try this on a larger scale. I have faith in it. Afterwards, the scheme shall be evaluated. I aim to make this a nationwide system that allows us to get to a system where everyone, no matter where you live in the country, can get help to get into hospitals faster. I can assure Stortinget that I am closely following developments in waiting times in the specialist health service. It shall be such that all patients feel confident that they receive the necessary healthcare within the time limits which are medically sound.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-31.ana.ud1601e627	I thank the Council of State for the answer, but at the same time I have to note with some disappointment that there were very important parts of what I addressed in my post, which the Council of State did not comment on in one word at all. Regarding the issue of cost-effectiveness and comparability between public hospitals and private hospitals, I can show that Norwegian patient registers have published a report on somatic activities for 2005. It is apparent that in public hospitals, the average duration of prosthetic surgery is 10.6 days, while in the corresponding private hospital, the average duration is 4.4 days. That's a not insignificant difference. In all the figures available from SAMDATA, there is a systematic and very striking difference in cost-effectiveness between private providers and public hospitals. Some of the problems of comparison are not what the Council of State referred to, and which is constantly being heard from the public hospitals, namely that they are so heavily burdened with other tasks. The main reason is that there are no data available in public hospitals showing the actual costs. Maybe it would have been an end to starting with the Council of State, to make sure that there is an economic governance that allows you to account for the actual costs. You can't do that today. But then to the most important thing, because that's what concerns the social perspective in this picture: doesn't the Council of State at all worry that the demand for private health insurance, which is reasonably expensive, seems to be more than doubled from last year to this year? Does it not worry the Council of State at all to see clear trends in the growth of two different cows — one of which is very short — namely, of those who can finance healthcare 100 pst. and of those who are unable to finance them 100 pst. - What's the Does not the Council of State not see that there is also an age-related social problem in this, namely that the patients who suffer from downgrading offers that have all been agreed on have worked well are the oldest patients, the least mobile patients? It's exactly what we had with Health East's management of habilitation and rehabilitation last year, which triggered a legitimate storm from the users of the capital area, because the banal fact that those who use these services are older people, and for them, proximity to the services itself means a significant quality.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-31.ana.ud1601e640	We probably have to find out that in this case there are many ways to view things. But what I think we can agree quickly, at least, is that the world could not have been turned upside down in seven months, said the previous government went off, and then it was just the Right who had the Minister of Health. I would also like to note that this government has already granted more money to hospitals for the current year than the previous government had provided in its draft budget. It may not be possible to treat fewer patients. No, you could probably treat 20,000 more patients than the previous Right Council and the previous government had added. I think it should also be included as a back carpet. Because that is not what the representative is now trying to create a picture of, that is, the waiting time is increasing. That's the opposite that's the case. And that's not something the department makes up. It's a sintef count that shows that the wait time drops. And if that's interesting, it's gone down after we took over. That's the facts, and the facts are very difficult to disagree with, at least when they come from SINTEF. That's why it's not right, what the representative here says, that we ‘is in the process of destroying the positive development we saw under the previous government’. Where does the representative pay it from, when the facts show us that it's going the opposite way? That doesn't mean that as Minister of Health, I am extremely satisfied with the situation. No, there's still a lot to do, but that doesn't mean it's right to create a scare image of a situation that isn't really like that. I believe it is essential to make it possible to bring down the waiting time further where we are not good enough, and that we are primarily good at exploiting the capacity of the public sector and using the public money in the most appropriate way possible. Then, of course, we're also going to take care of private actors who do a useful job, as a complement to the public. But I have to say with respect that it is allowed to differentiate something between ideal, non-profit organisations that are not primarily looking to make money, and those that are. However, we should also have room for private commercial operators. So the fact that we're now tightening up a little bit in relation to private commercial players doesn't mean that the waiting time is increasing, as the statistics now look. In the case of Health West, for which the representative was particularly concerned, the waiting time for patients waiting for treatment for somatic disorders there is the last year reduced from 87 to 73 days. It is also the case that patients in hospitals who have had an increased waiting time for treatment receive treatment in other hospitals in the region. So all patients should be taken care of, no matter where you live in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-31.ana.ud1601e656	For many years, Norway has built up a good common welfare society and a common health system, where people should be able to trust that there are the needs of patients, not their wallet or profit motivations for the owners of private hospitals, who control the priority of the offer. However, looking at the figures for waiting lists and the number of private commercial hospitals that grew up under the bourgeois Bondevik II government, there might be doubts as to whether this principle was still maintained in the same way. In 2002, there were 6 private commercial hospitals in Norway. In 2003 and 2004, a total of 13 new private hospitals were approved and this explosive development continued in 2005. It is true that private hospitals are not new in Norwegian health care. Offers such as the Celebrating Clinic under the auspices of the National Association for Cardiovascular and Pulmonary Disease, under the auspices of the Red Cross and others. have been valuable supplements to public hospitals for a long time. These are ideal foundations that want to give an offer to special patient groups. The new thing that happened during the Bondevik government was that we got a lot of new hospitals running out of profit motive. Many of these took out great profits and profit, such as Clinic Stokkan in Middle Norway and the Ringvoll Clinic in Ashim. Fortunately, profit opportunities have now been somewhat reduced after regional health firms have recently become more attractive and more stringent in the negotiations on reimbursements for treatment in these hospitals. Privates are largely offering services in limited areas, most of them within day surgery. Public hospitals continue to have sole responsibility for acute conditions and patients with more serious and complex diagnoses. We see that day surgery is an area that has had great growth in recent years. This is a development that is due to better treatment methods, which are largely positive for patients, but not just for patients, also for owners of private hospitals and their income. Of the total increase in day surgery in Norwegian hospitals from 2000 to 2004, they accounted for a total of 45 pst. Thus, in these areas, they have become important actors in the overall patient supply. The Labour Party questioned this development in the election campaign, in order to provide a good health offer to everyone, is a public task that cannot be managed on the basis of profit. Private hospitals quickly choose to bet on the simple treatments rather than more complicated disease cases. This could lead to a distortion of priorities, which is not based on the patient’s best interests, but on the owner’s wish for maximum profit. Looking at the areas where the waiting time for treatment was reduced during the Bondevik II administration, there is another reason to question whether there is such a priority we want more of. In fact, for patients with severe diseases, such as colon cancer, prostate cancer and breast cancer, the waiting time for surgery was not reduced at all between 2001 and 2004, despite a large increase in activity in the hospital sector. From 2003 to 2004, there was still a slight increase in the waiting time for these most serious disorders. At the same time, there is a significant decrease — and a joyful decrease — in the waiting time for the removal of tonsils, and for patients with grey tails, light fragments, etc., who were treated and treated during day surgery. This was largely due to increased use of private, commercial hospitals and private contract specialists. Of course, it was good that waiting times went down for less severe suffering – we should continue to bet on it – but the fact that waiting times for the treatment of the most serious diseases were not reduced indicates that the civil government did not fully succeed in priority issues. The working party wants to control the development, so that patients with the greatest needs and with the most serious diseases get first in line and get the shortest waiting time.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-31.ana.ud1601e673	You have to watch your words well – I kept saying – your wish to comment on the previous posts. For such a strange form of description of reality that the representative Bøhler comes along with, you have to look for it for a long time. When it is claimed that private patients are treated, waiting times increase, among other things. cancer surgery and cancer treatment, then it is with respect to report in time that you reconsider what you have said. Things are unfortunately going wrong. When the Council of State claims that waiting times go down, it is with respect to report not necessarily what all numbers show. You should not spend too much time reading the Free Hospital Choice website until you, for example: Sees that the waiting times in a number of hospitals are actually increasing. But what's the problem with the numbers that appear there is that you're not up-to-date, and you're actually not using the right things, like showing the number of waiting that's on the lists. Because when you look at these figures, when you contact the hospitals, and when you actually get treatment, it turns out, unfortunately, that there is not always a correlation between the number of weeks stated and the actual reality that everyday life brings. This is an ideological debate in many areas. It's quite obvious. That that's what's behind it, we could also read the Soria Moria statement. The problem is that when you talk about who is going to hit this. You talk about not having a two-part healthcare system, where you have one right for those who have a fat wallet, and one for those who don't. Yes, but it's this policy, which we now choose from the Government's side, which makes us get it. Those who have had the thickest wallet and the best economy have always been able to buy themselves out of a queue. They have always been able to receive treatment, either in Norway or by private health enterprises abroad. What has been happening in recent years is that the steady man, i.e. most people, has been able to make use of this, through agreements that regional health companies have concluded with the private sector. And that's where you bomb. By limiting this — and not just limiting it — but going so far that we have begun to have the first bankruptcies in these hospitals as a result of the signals given to regional health businesses by the Government and the Council of State — the private man will not have this opportunity. He must neatly line up and wait, while those who have the thickest wallet, at any time will be able to get these offers anyway. I hope at least that the Council of State will go in and look at how we update the Free Hospital Choice website, and not least that we get clear numbers in the waiting time and the number of waiting on the lists, because then you can actually go in and see that efficiency has not increased so much in the public hospitals. You can also look at sick leave. Sick leave is growing dramatically, and it is at a time when the government has actually removed the post of the social security fund for the purchase of health services. Yes, no one should say that these things necessarily go in the right direction. And when you even try to blame the private actors – that they've been standing and foaming the cream in this market – it's actually not right. Then you have to go in and look at the DRG, the patient weight that the private have treated. Because here come a lot of claims that don't necessarily have root in reality. Private hospitals are important, both as a corrective and effective treatment institution, to ensure that patients are helped to get back to work or get a better daily life — preferably both. Things go wrong in this area. I hope you take your senses eventually and change this a little bit. It's enough to look at it to find out whether or not you've been focusing on health care. Look at today's text TV. Revmatics are now getting a worse everyday life as a result of the funding of some medicines.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-31.ana.ud1601e688	I would like to begin by congratulating the Council of State as one of the few Councils of State in this government that have received rapid results from a wild policy. The rapid results are that the number of people who have to use their own economy to buy past public health cows is increasing significantly and, not least, the sale of private health insurance has already been as high this year as it was overall in 2005. There was a market that was about to dry up as a result of the previous government opening up so that people could use private hospitals, but that the public paid the bill. So there's a reason to congratulate the Minister of Health on quick results, but it's the patients and the residents who have to pay the bill. When the health minister shows that the waiting time in the Health West has fallen, it is not a difficult calculation. The reason is that health west through targeted work has prioritised the patients who have waited longer. This does not necessarily mean that they have treated significantly more patients, but that they have treated those who switch to the statistics as quickly as possible, thus reducing the average waiting time. However, some patient groups experience increased waiting times, and not least that they need to travel more and more to receive treatment. This means that more and more people, not least those in work, are willing to pay for simple operations themselves. This government has received a different result, a significant increase in sick leave. It is not strange when people have to stand in line for months and wait for operations that cost a few thousand, and thus must be ill-appointed unnecessarily long. When they get e.g. the employer to pay this operation, this government has introduced tax on treatment, so that they also have to be taxed through it for the benefit of faster treatment and thus return to work faster. Obviously, here it is not the line of work that governs the government's policy. The government is very busy distinguishing between non-commercial and commercial private actors and focusing on the commercial players almost as if these were people on the profit side who managed to trick money out of the public. It is not a single private commercial hospital in this country that has treated a single patient in which the public pays the bill, without the price being paid, is the result of negotiations between the public and private actors. It is also such that the price paid is significantly lower than the price paid for similar operations in public hospitals. That someone makes some money on actually offering society more, better and cheaper treatments than what the public itself does, it's amazing that someone can be morally upset about. The same are not equally morally upset that money is being used unreasonablely in public health, and there is reason to ask: What is the difference between some people’s being able to offer more, better and cheaper operations to society and, in public terms, there is a huge difference between the possibility of individual hospitals to use the resources allocated by the Stortinge in this area in a sensible way, so that it actually becomes the best for the patient? This is an expression of a misguided government policy. I am absolutely convinced that in the years to come we will see an increase in the number of older people, such as the elderly. are willing to use 60 000–70000 kroner to get a good hip surgery in their nearest private hospital, instead of being sent by farms to an offer that they also have to wait a long time for. I think they should have the right, of course, but I think it's sad that we have a policy that makes them unable to pay this bill from the public, and not least that the neighbor could not get exactly the same good offer because she couldn't afford it, which is a result of a wild policy from this government. This I think is an area where more and more people will rebel, where more and more people will give notice. But unfortunately, this is written down in the Soria Moria Declaration, and there is little evidence that the Government will change its policy in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-31.ana.ud1601e703	For us, it is essential to ensure a strong welfare state, so that people can feel secure that they get good health care, whether they have much or little money. We are concerned about the growing social divides, and that increasingly large parts of well-being in recent years have been left to a private market. The Government Platform states that we will limit the scope of agreements with private commercial hospitals, that free capacity in public hospitals should be exploited, and that agreements between health businesses and private commercial hospitals should not have an extent that undermines the patient base of the small local hospitals. This is good. In addition, it is good that the Council of State has taken initiatives to address some undesirable trends in public health market thinking. The Representative for Wage shows an uncritical attitude towards commercial players and does not distinguish between private commercial operators and private non-profit actors. That's why I want to challenge him on some points. Firstly, as the leader of two priority committees, wages have included the priority of health services. Does wages mean that a large amount of agreements with private commercial operators can undermine important priority objectives? Does he see that a large amount of private players without clear limits can actually deplete the public health system for valuable labour? I can mention competitive elements such as pay, flexibility in recruitment, and reducing the burden of training. For example, the Rikshospital had: previous difficulties in getting rid of the waiting lists for lip/gate slits and for fire damage. Attractive work in private hospitals based on cosmetic surgery, often with contracts with health businesses at the top of this, was an important reason. Secondly, and this comes from my first question: what is efficiency? It is implicit in the Wage Interpellation that efficiency is equal to faster withdrawal of waiting lists. For SV, it is of course important to bring down the queues. I would nevertheless be critical of the fact that the widespread use of private commercial operators is what needs to be done, especially in a system that is largely based on profitability from before. Under the previous government, the number of private hospitals increased dramatically. This also led to increased competition. In focus, on 8 February 2005, a heart surgeon at a university hospital said that public hospitals are ‘being infected by the mentality of private clinics: a more liberal diagnosis’. A professor of health policy said that ‘we operate healthier and healthier patients’. That is why I must ask the representative for wages if it is so certain that increased privatisation will increase efficiency. If profitability considerations lead to more and more patients being treated, this will have a negative and not a positive effect, because resources are being wasted on unnecessary activities. And despite the intentions of being neutral in priority, there is a lot of evidence that the ISF system has some unintended and undesirable consequences regarding who comes first to treatment in Norwegian hospitals. To some extent, there is a prioritisation of relatively healthy but economically profitable patients with simple treatment needs, which was also partly reinforced during periods of the previous government. This poses a threat to the equality of health services and the overall principle of distribution ‘to those who need it the most’. There is little doubt that private hospitals will be even less interested in treating the sickest, the most complicated suffering, those who often do not pay off. We don't need an enhancement of this trend. In addition: Sickness about the activity was record high in 2004, Norwegian hospitals also set a different record, namely a record in the number of non-scheduled rehabilitations, in particular of elderly patients with complex diseases. This is also not very effective. Effectiveness can actually be measured by whether we achieve the health policy objectives that those who are sickest should be treated first, and whether we are actually providing adequate treatment, not just if we are treating more. Finally, I agree that there may be grounds for using private commercial operators in some cases, and especially where there is a lack of a good alternative in the public sector. An example is in the case of eating disorders. There we are too bad, and there are the commercial alternatives, like Capio in Fredrikstad. But I think it would be wiser and more efficient to spend this money in public, because commercial offers mean going with profits to their owners, and so money goes to games that could have been used to treat patients – that is, not effectively. In the meantime, however, we must assume that anorexic patients have a life-threatening disease, and they cannot wait.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-31.ana.ud1601e722	Thanks to the representative for raising an important question, with the important point that patients should not experience increased waiting time for investigation and treatment and less available treatment services. I will take Health West as an example. From the Minister of Health and Welfare of the health business to cut down on the use of private hospitals has led to restrictions and lay-offs by private health institutions that have contributed greatly to cutting health cows. In the Health West, the use of private operators has been reduced by 35 pst. Some private clinics have significantly reduced the number of granted operations. There has also been a disparity between health businesses in Health West. The last round of Health West's use of private hospitals led to only 10 pst. by the operations were allocated to private operators in Rogaland. The rest went to Bergen. The problem with this is also that patients have to travel far for both investigation, treatment and post-control. Too many people can be very impressed. I share the assessment that private actors balance between being a supplement and a competitor to public hospitals, and that it is up to health companies to manage this balancing art. Nevertheless, private operators deserve a certain predictability, since they in turn have employees to be cared for, and have an enterprise that may have been operating for many, many years. Worst of all, if it turns out that the policy that the Minister of Health now imposes on health businesses could increase waiting times and thus affect patients. We've had a debate on the reality of waiting times, and what is definitely certain is that in the case of drugs, we get signals about such a development, especially in the case of drug care rights. They're in line, and the queues are long. If it turns out that there is a rudimentary event similar to that of other groups of patients on whom other representatives have been involved, will the Council of State change this course? In the case of private non-profit hospitals, they are significant healthcare providers and are currently acting as an integral part of the public specialist health service. In the context of the acquisition by the State of the specialist health service and the organisation of health establishments, it was provided that the role and framework conditions of private establishments providing health services should be continued. Under the Health Business Act, regional health establishments were obliged to continue and conclude new agreements with private operators. The Christian People's Party is particularly concerned that these ideal hospitals are still going to exist, as they are, among other things. contributes to an important diversity of Norwegian healthcare, not least with its diaconal character. It is also important for these institutions to have certainty that their existence is ensured. The same applies to private nurseries, often established in connection with non-profit hospitals. We meet the newly established selection of the Government, which will explore further developments in higher education and look at measures to ensure that the structure of universities and higher education institutions contributes to meeting the needs of society. Private nurse schools also need financial predictability. In addition, these are intended to provide qualified nurses and others with health education, for example: a reinforced care for the elderly. The reduction in the allocation of these private colleges, as in the 2006 government budget, must not happen again. It is positive that it has been reversed in the revised national budget. Finally, we see, as many have been involved, a development towards a two-tier system in a completely different way from that of private participation as part of a public plan and the cost of the public service. We see a two-way street between those who can afford to buy the services themselves – or the company they work in – and those who use the public offer. Every day we watch TV and newspapers of insurance companies that advertise health insurance. The evolution we're now seeing, with another kind of bi-dividual, doesn't that Council of State worry?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-31.ana.ud1601e738	I first want to say a little about this with health insurance. It is strange that there should be signals the government sends out to limit the scope of the use of commercial private operators, leading to such an increase in health insurance. I think it is rather strange to make such claims. I think it tells more about how much it means to us people to be healthy, and how people in many different ways try to secure themselves against disease. That, I think, is the reason for the increase in health insurance, and not the government sending out any signals. Interpellant Inge Wohnung points in his post to possible negative consequences in relation to waiting times, etc. when the Government wishes to limit private commercial operators in the specialist health service. I don't think it's been found in the posts here that the waiting times are increasing. In one area that has not been mentioned, the waiting time is increasing somewhat — and that is the case in psychiatry, in the area of mental health protection. This increase is probably due to an increase in the number of referrals. The Government Declaration makes a clear distinction between private commercial and private non-profit hospitals and health institutions. Private ideals shall be guaranteed good and stable framework conditions, while contracts with private commercial hospitals and health institutions shall be limited. But does this mean that the activity is reduced, that fewer patients are treated? It seems like this. No one has shown so far in the interpellation debate that fewer patients are being treated today because of this. The majority of the Stortinget, i.e. the government parties, have adopted a budget for the specialist health service, which continues the growth in 2005. Unlike the proposals of the Right and Christian People's Party, we increased the budget by about half a billion dollars. In addition, in the revised national budget, we have proposed 100 million. Plus $60 million. SEK to Health West and 40 million. kr to Health Mid-Norway. With the right approach, one would have to reduce the treatment capacity, and the waiting time would probably be longer if the previous government budget proposal had gone through in the Stortinget. I will give an example of how public health care should not be used, and I quote from the Official Journal of Bergen: ‘Since the sleep clinic, or the snoring clinic it is commonly called, was established in Voss Hospital’ — that is, private and public — ‘thousands of patients from all over the country have been treated there. In the last four years, the clinic has conducted around 3000 snorkeling and sleep investigations annually.’Snorking has proved to be a good store. Until 2003, a simple snoring operation was priced at NOK 20,500. Of these, 6000 went to Eurosleep’, which is the company. «After 2003 the price» – from the public sector – «has decreased to NOK 6000». In 2003, the surplus was 11.5 million. kr. The owner, Magne Twinnereim took out a tax-free dividend at the time of seven million. kr. After the price was set, he collected a tax-free dividend of 3.16 million. kr. I believe that it would have been irresponsible for the government not to give any indication that this type of healthcare we want to organise in a different way than for private commercials to milk the health budget for large sums. I hope that the other people who raise questions about this also agree that this is not a way to use public health bills. We should be able to use private actors where it is a public resource, but above all a user and exploit the capacity and efficiency of the public health system.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-31.ana.ud1601e760	For the left, it's decisive that we have a good and equivalent health supply for everyone who needs it, when they need it. We believe that the healthcare system must take the patient's suffering and the patients seriously. Information, co-destination and quality assurance are necessary for us as patients to know the security we want when we need help. In fact, there has been an increasing gap between our expectations and the medical/professional possibilities on one side and what resources are available on the other. Left says that a strong public health service under democratic control is the best guarantee that the available health resources are used to create an equivalent supply – and I stress – with priority on a medical/professional basis. Private actors are not new, as many have been in the past. There is nothing new before the Norwegian Health Service, and we in the Left believe that, in addition to a strong public health service, there must still be room for private operators. The left wants today’s cooperation between private and public healthcare providers to be further developed with the patient’s freedom of choice, in line with the legislation that exists and where the public becomes good purchasers. I think competition is healthy. In any case, there is no need for private health services to be used for ideological reasons. Especially in urban areas, private operators will be able to cut down the queues and contribute to a good health system with a safe supply for all. Left thinks that private actors can be a positive supplement – I want to underline the supplement – to the public health service, because we are especially concerned that one does not undermine the district and local hospital's customer base, as others have been in the past. These hospitals depend on something more than purely emergency functions, both for the efficient use of resources and for the recruitment of key personnel to these institutions. As a former hospital director, I know that there are many myths associated with the private provision of health, for example. that private specialist services are much better and more effective than public ones. It was something that we heard very often. But I want to say that it's usually about the private don't have to offer the width of services that the public hospitals have. I have no doubt that most public hospitals are socially competitive compared to the private ones. I think the Salomonic conclusion is that we need both. Left thinks that the local hospital function may be the most important function when it applies to all Norwegian hospitals, and then I would remind you that Ullevål hospital is the largest local hospital in the country. At the same time, it is clear that today’s hospital structure does not necessarily correspond to the need in the future. Medical technological developments and specialisation in medicine in addition to our expectations of the best possible treatment outcomes and the least possible risk lead to the accumulation of many forms of treatment on fewer units. The left still points out that there is no contradiction between the rational and necessary functional distribution and the continuation of the specialist healthcare chain, including a decentralised hospital structure and space for private operators within the specific area. I am thinking in particular of professional fields such as ear, nose, neck and eye, which are areas I believe fit for private use. What makes the blood burst in the community is the protection of local hospitals. The common woman and man go out into the streets to fight for their local hospitals and not least to protect the content of them. The debate on the content of local hospitals must focus on more than just roofs and walls. Although this moment is strange in this debate, there is a clear link between the local hospitals and their function. [[President clubs]] In conclusion, I would like to say that the Left believes it is important to find the right balance between the different service actors, so that patients gather together get the best possible offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-31.ana.ud1601e792	It is positive that the Council recognises and confirms that private hospitals have made a significant contribution to reducing the waiting time for patients. I also record that the Council of State believes that private hospitals are an important complement to the public. That is why I am quite amazed at the negative attitude towards private hospitals that both representatives of Bøhler and Thorkildsen and others from the government parties – to the extent that the Council of State, later in the speech – show in this debate. With regard to the government's resistance to private hospitals, and the signals sent out to health businesses, there are already signs of longer health cows, no matter what the Council of State says about it. I believe that the unforeseeable nature of the government for the private hospitals could threaten the quality of the public hospitals and increase health differences. And that's exactly what Thorkildsen's representative is standing here and is very concerned about. The outcome of the ideological opposition of the Government to private hospitals is – it may seem – that ideology and politics are ahead of the patient’s concern. I also believe that the resistance shown here today on the part of the government parties can have a major impact on patient and health services. The representatives of the government parties speak negatively of the increase in the number of private hospitals under the previous government. Yeah, it's right that it increased. That is why, as the Council of State stated, health cows have been significantly reduced – because there were several private actors who contributed to treating patients. If the Government is to continue to pursue the policy it has now signaled, it can lead to longer health cows and increased waiting time for patients. The quality could be weakened, as I was inside. Fewer assignments to private operators weaken the quality of private services. There may be calls for tender around health enterprises with a one-sided focus on prices, and it will have a negative impact on those players who have put their money into quality. This is an unsolvable health policy. Studies show that more and more people choose to pay for treatment themselves, as well as more and more people buy private health insurance. This is due to increased waiting time and reduced provision of public health services as a result of the government’s new line towards private actors. Those with a good economy can buy up in the health queue, while those with a poor economy are referred to public hospitals with longer waiting time. In other words, the government creates a classed health system. The right believes that all patients should choose on the top shelf regardless of how much money they have. However, it appears that the Government believes that short waiting and freedom of choice in healthcare should only be reserved for those who have a good economy. That's what the Right believes is completely unacceptable.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-31.ana.ud1601e807	The interpellant takes up an important theme and has a solid basis for thinking for himself about what he is dealing with. Wages have, of course, led two samples that have looked at health care priorities, and I think that both samples are catching up on a debate that we have little dare to address: the debate on the priority of resource use. Then there are two questions that become absolutely central. One is: how do we ensure that the flow of money is managed against the health care system in such a way that we give priority to those groups that need it the most? The second is, how do we target the flow of money to the groups that need it the most? So, we have to get control of the total amount of expenditure and, in addition, now the groups that need it most. Wages achieved through the priority selections, at least putting the psychiatry, for which we've got a stepping-up plan, in focus. That's very good. However, what seems to be the case here today is not that the opposition is genuinely concerned with discussing the content of the case, but that they are more concerned with drawing a distorted picture of the difference between different governments – those of whom the Right must have been a part, and that of which the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre are now part. The fact is that the interpellant, and also Sonja Irene Sjøli in his last post here, speaks of, is something that their own health minister, Ansgar Gabrielsen, warned against just a few months ago. For example, Ansgar Gabrielsen reduced input-based funding from 60 to 40 p.m., such as SV. had been on the agenda for quite a few years, precisely because it was seen to have a cost-flow where the economy was too poorly run. At the moment you start to discuss it and look at how we target the funds in a sensible way, you get a debate that the parties don't necessarily have to disagree about, if you have good, professional analyses. I have noticed, even while I myself was in the Social Committee, how the cross-party parties – from the Right, at least to the SV, and often also the Progress Party – can come together on instruments, while in today's debate it is said that there is a sea of difference between the parties' views on instruments. The fact that this is not necessarily the case is very often reflected in the attitudes of the current Health Committee. I am also surprised that wages, which have otherwise just been concerned with priorities, do not point more strongly to the need for financial management here today. Some of the strange thing is that it is said that the left-hand side of Norwegian policy has made it an ideology to prevent the privatisation of healthcare. Indeed, the fast-track reform is in many ways a privatisation reform. But what you have is very good economic incentives to ensure that the use of funds is targeted — and it has been largely so. However, what we can see in SV, which was in favour of the permanent reform, is that it affects the field of social medicine in a way that is unfortunate and makes it necessary to strengthen it. If it is to be strengthened, of course, it is not possible to do so by privatising the fixed reform further, or by getting more general practitioners involved in price-based schemes. Then you have to have community doctors who go into positions where they mainly work under a fixed-wage regime. That means that it is not primarily ideological that should direct this debate, but it is to find out the means by which one achieves what one was looking for. Looking at the caretaker in general practice, it can be seen that unit price financing works well. It would have been completely hopeless within the medical care system for emergency care to have to wait for a set waiting list. In hospitals, on the other hand, we see – as we know very well – that the growth of the economy has been staggering in recent years, without necessarily demonstrating in all areas that it has given rise to the effect that increased subsidies should have. It is also well illustrated by what is, among other things, The representative of the Kijlaa said that the appropriations with which the sitting government has come up are greater than those proposed by the Right. That means that the reasoning here today is completely opposite what they were just six months ago. After all, this type of debate had to be served by analysing what was going on and trying to reach an agreement on it, rather than trying to produce it as if there were a sea of differences between the parties in terms of the use of instruments. For this reason, the policy that has been pursued for a number of years makes clear that it has not been – not least Ansgar Gabrielsen and the last health budget of the Right Council, before the Bondevik II government went off.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-31.ana.ud1601e824	There has been a wide-ranging debate with a good number of elements at best located at the extreme of the interpellation. But, of course, it is interesting to discuss health policy in general and priority issues. My point is that it makes it neither easier nor more difficult to prioritise at the overall level — i.e. at the level of state councils, or at the regional level of health establishments — whether contracts are concluded with private operators or not. The priority tool does not change a waste by doing so. What is new in the situation is that regional health businesses have received an instruction from the Council of State to step down the use of private actors. It is not an instruction that is justified in the case of patients. At least I have not registered it. It is not an instruction that is justified on what is needed or not needed. It is a purely ideological doctrine that has not been tried to substantiate with any arguments that I have been able to record. It must then be allowed to take into account, for example: The elderly councils in the two largest cities of Rogaland, Stavanger and Haugesund, both have taken unanimous opinions – that means that there are also people from the government parties – expressing great concern for what has happened, among others. in the Health West. The representative of the Kschlalaa thought it was strange that someone could interpret a dramatic increase in the demand for private health insurance in the way I did. I find it strange that the representative Schjälaa chooses the ostrich's way of doing things when you see something unpleasant, namely stabbing your head in the sand. One double from one year to the next, you actually have to think of it as being so alarming that you have to ask, what's that expression for? Of course, there is an increasing uncertainty in older people, as this is a matter of concern to all older people. The figures from, among others: Health West, which the Council of State referred to in a rather general and really quite misleading way, shows that account is taken of demography – and we know that for the next ten years, the need for this type of healthcare will increase dramatically due to the age structure of the population – there will be a need for a significant increase here if older people are not to be consistently the ones at the back of the queue in all contexts of Norwegian healthcare. At least it can't be a goal for this government.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-31.ana.ud1601e835	I understand that especially the Right Party and the Advance Party do not like the waiting time going down. That's right, I see, very bad into the reality that those parties are now trying to create. If you're worried about someone being worried, and that's why, at least I don't think you should scare people unnecessarily. I am responding to the fact that this debate by representatives of the Right in particular is used as an expression of an unsolvable policy. ‘Classical health care’ are expressions that have been used and that ideology and politics take precedence over the patient’s concerns. I have to honestly say that I don't understand how to express myself that way when this government has granted 600 million. kr more than that the previous government – of which the Right actually was a member, and where they had the Minister of Health – had submitted, and when we now receive treatment for more patients in the public hospitals. Thus, fewer people become dependent on the thickness of the wallet, and the waiting time goes down. I don't think it's necessary to create a picture that there's a huge distance between the parties in the view of private, commercial hospitals or private actors. There is no doubt that there is a difference between different parties in the view of how much one should use private, commercial operators. But it was the way that the previous government, where the Right had the Minister of Health, told health care companies to buy privately, almost regardless of whether there was capacity in the public sector or not. I don't think that's a good policy. It doesn't seem like the government and government parties are good policies, because we have to use the public capacity first, and then it's private and commercial a useful supplement. Last night, my department had a meeting with PRISY, an umbrella organization for private, commercial hospitals. We have dialogue. They are involved and have recordings in e.g. National health level, so that's not how we have a shot premium on the private. The fact that we're saying we're going to reduce and limit the volume somewhat in relation to the commercial, does not mean drama. But it is important, in our view, that we ensure that it is not the wallet that is crucial, and that we thus make the best possible use of the public capacity. It's having the patient in the center, and not the opposite, as some representatives have said here today. This government is set to do everything it can to reduce waiting time as much as possible. I've also said that I'm not satisfied with the development of the psychiatry and ru area in particular, to mention some examples. That is why we have told our healthcare companies that these are areas that need to be given higher priority in the current year. We are also extremely concerned about providing the ideal, voluntary organisations' hospitals with good and stable framework conditions. We've added up to that. So we're on. And it doesn't get any more correct, the reality description that wages are trying to draw, even though it's repeated many times from this pulpit today.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-31.ana.ud1601e850	As a result, the interpellant debate is over. This way, today's maps are processed. Does anyone ask for the word in relation to § 37a of Stortinget’s Rules of Procedure? - The meeting is over.
