ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-24.ana.ud2089e24	The representative, Ms Eriksen, will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-24.ana.ud2089e27	On behalf of Gunnar Gundersen, Jan Tore Sanner and myself, I am delighted to make a private proposal on fiscal equal treatment in the setting-up of gift professorships at universities and colleges.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-24.ana.ud2089e32	The representative of May-Helen Molvær Grimstad will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-24.ana.ud2089e35	On behalf of the representatives of Storing Ingreigt S. Sørfonn, Knut Arild Hareide and myself, I would like to present a Document No. 8 proposals to start work on a ban on slot machines.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-24.ana.ud2089e40	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-24.ana.ud2089e64	On Monday, the Storting received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following government councils will meet for oral Question Time: State Council Åslaug Haga State Council Life Signe Navarsete Councillor Karita Bekkemelm The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, wish to ask themselves the main questions asked. – We'll start with the first main questions, from the representative Jan Tore Sanner.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-24.ana.ud2089e79	My question goes to the Minister of State. It seems that the sitting government sees it as a measure that as much as possible must pay as much as possible in property taxes. The government has now made a proposal that allows municipalities to charge even more taxes on property. This property tax, which has now been proposed by the Government, has also been referred to as the cab tax, because the landlords too are now liable to be subject to property taxes. I don't think the people who sit with the big palaces are the ones who fear the government's proposal, but I think there are quite a number of pensioners, teachers, nurses – who may have taken over a family place, or who through a long life have saved for a cabin. We should not underestimate the strength of the cottage dream in the Norwegian people. I believe it is of great value that a cabin has not been reserved for the few, but has been an opportunity for the many. We now see that there are many workers' party rapporteurs rubbing their hands and looking forward to sending the tax charge to the lodgers. The government itself has calculated, according to its websites, that this could cost a cabin owner between NOK 5000 and NOK 10000. I hope the Council of State does not choose to blame the previous government. It is true that the previous government decided to extend the property tax base, but the previous government rejected such a proposal because it would turn out unsocial. So my question to the Council of State is: does the Council of State see that property taxes have social effects, because there is not necessarily any connection between the value of the property and the person's income or pension?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-24.ana.ud2089e92	Today's system is that it's up to the municipalities whether or not they want to introduce property taxes. In the later years, a number of municipalities have been forced to introduce property taxes because they have fed the municipalities financially. From this point of view, there are very many municipalities that experience that they have in practice had no choice when it comes to introducing property taxes. As everyone will know, it is that the previous government was not very willing to increase the limits of the municipalities, and the consequence was that many, contrary to what they wanted inside, introduced property taxes. What the Government has now proposed is to remove the distinction between urbanly developed and non-urbanly developed struts, if the municipalities choose to introduce property taxes. You can still maintain property taxes only in urbanly developed areas, but this will be up to the municipalities. So the freedom of choice for the municipalities is increasing. It will also be possible for municipalities to have property taxes only on works and uses. It's true, as the representative Sanner says, that property taxes can have their negative social aspects. Therefore, my party has not been particularly pleased with property taxes. But it's a fact that the municipalities have that opportunity today. It has turned out very special in many places that there has been a distinction between urban and non-urban construction. We know that the legal proceedings have been pending in relation to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-24.ana.ud2089e101	I don't think this was particularly reassuring for the many tenants in Norway, who are very much ordinary people, with very common income and ordinary retirement. When you know that this can cancel out with thousands of dollars a year, it's interesting that the government then recognizes that this has unsocial effects. Interestingly, a government council in the Red-Green Government is promoting a proposal that is recognized as unsocial. Let me follow up with a local democratic angle on the question. It is true that the tenants have very little voting rights in the municipality where they have a cabin. One thing is that the inhabitants can vote out tax-seekers, but a landlord does not have the right to vote in the municipality where he has the cabin, and thus does not have the opportunity to vote out tax-seekers. My question to the Council of State is: does the Council of State see that there is a democratic dilemma with the proposal that has now been made, as the tenants do not have the opportunity to vote on politicians who introduce cab tax?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-24.ana.ud2089e110	It is not new that municipalities have the possibility to introduce property taxes. As the representative Sanner now puts it, it is quite surprising that the Right, who has been in government for four years, has not chosen to abandon the possibility of local authorities introducing property taxes. With the strong principleal objections that the representative here makes, both in terms of democracy, and in terms of the social impact of it, I sincerely wonder that the Right did not take a different line when they were in government. As far as Sanner is concerned as the cab tax, it's unlikely that there are those who can afford to have a cabin, which represents the most suspicious aspects of property tax.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-24.ana.ud2089e117	There will be three follow-up questions – first Åge Starheim.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-24.ana.ud2089e120	After the Progress Party's view, the cabin people are of great joy to the people most, and not least to the commercial industries where these have built their cabins. The tenants probably spend a lot of money in each municipality, which benefits both business and the municipality. Cabin tax plays can scare away potential outdoorsmen who plan to build themselves a cabin. Does the Council not see that this is backwards, and is not the Council of State agreed that extra taxes should not be imposed on measures that can get people into the wild? Should it not be for the Council of State to see to it that spokespersons and municipal politicians can enjoy the fact that people benefit from savings to invest in outdoor activities, instead of imposing these even greater tax burden by imposing property taxes on cabins? Is this a deliberate suggestion that they should be able to impose property taxes on municipalities throughout the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-24.ana.ud2089e127	I agree with the representative of Starheim that cabin crews are a pleasure for very many municipalities and very many communities in Norway, and not least the cabins are of great pleasure to those who have them. We maintain a property tax in the municipalities as a voluntary tax. If one is concerned that the municipalities should not avail themselves of the possibility of imposing property taxes, yes, then the most important thing we can do is to strengthen the municipalities financially. Because, as I said in my previous answer, there are a lot of municipalities that have experienced a lack of coercion in relation to the introduction of property taxes. The municipalities are now given additional freedom of choice in relation to the choice of the property tax scheme. This by removing the distinction between urbanly developed and non-urbanly developed strips will be important, because it has also been perceived as very unreasonable in many places, with, as I said, the heavy burden on the judiciary that we could have seen in front of us.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-24.ana.ud2089e137	Bea Lymph – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-24.ana.ud2089e140	The main foundations of the recently concluded agreement between the State and the Norwegian Agricultural Farmers’ Association for 2007 are linked to tax reliefs through an increase in the agricultural deduction. It is a device that the Left supports and that is in line with the agricultural policy that has been pursued in recent years. But does the Council of State not see that the proposal to give a general authority to the municipalities of the country to impose property taxes on buildings, i.e. the houses of the peasants, leads the Government to pay taxes with one hand and to take tax cuts with the other, as did the government when the 2006 budget was adopted?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-24.ana.ud2089e145	Firstly, I am pleased that the Left supports the tax profile of the farm. In the case of property taxes, it is also the case today, until the new law enters into force, that in the case of farm use within the area for which property taxes can be imposed, it will be up to the municipality how to levy taxes on buildings. What we've done now is we've implemented a mandatory derogation for soil, forests and operational buildings. In the case of apartment buildings, they will be subject to the property tax in the same way as other residential buildings, but with the limitation of the own value-fixing rules of the house on the ground floor being part of a larger production unit.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-24.ana.ud2089e152	Bent Höie – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-24.ana.ud2089e155	As for the Council of State's description of the local economy in recent years, I would have to ask the Council of State to stick to the truth of the development she herself describes in the context of the municipal proposition in formal responses to me, which is quite different from what she gives here in the Chamber. To the matter: I have to repeat the question from the representative Sanner. Does the Council of State not see the undemocratic fact that local politicians, chosen by the population living in the municipality, can impose property taxes on people who do not have the right to vote in the municipality in which they have the dwelling property? The program output point of the centre party and of the right in relation to property tax is almost identical. Both parties are against the property tax, but it is up to local politicians to decide. But that means that those who get the property tax, and are opposed to it, should have the opportunity to get rid of the politicians who introduce it. The model proposed by the Government means that those who receive property tax cannot get rid of the politicians who introduce it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-24.ana.ud2089e162	I understand the issue that was raised, but it is demanding for me to see what conclusion the representative Höie zejl would draw from the question he is asking. After all, there is a relatively special situation that would arise if the person with an interest in another municipality could have voting rights in that municipality. It would break with all of our democratic thinking. It's the residence that's the starting point for where we put our voice in the urn.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-24.ana.ud2089e167	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-24.ana.ud2089e170	My question is to the Minister for Transport. I hope that the Council of State in the answer will spend the time telling about the Government's own actions, and not commenting on the policies of the Progress Party. I hope the Council of State agrees with me that most people are more concerned with solutions than with disputes about old numbers. Other countries that do not have oil revenues spend money building new and better roads. Ireland is an example, NOK 340 billion is spent on new infrastructure. The argument there is that this must be done to ensure continued growth in the economy, and at the same time to avoid pressures on the economy. Some of the countries that build roads borrow money to do it. Some of these countries even borrow money from Norway to build roads, borrow the oil money that the Norwegian State has placed on behalf of its inhabitants in financial capital abroad. Loans are granted at low interest rates, 2 and 1/2 pst, because these are long-term investments, with low risk. However, social returns in Norway are much higher, and the risk is just as low. In Norway, we have an alarming need to renovate our own road network. The total follow-up to road maintenance throughout the country is over 40 billion kroner, according to new figures provided. Just 5 pst. of the national road network complies with the requirements we ourselves have set for our own roads. At the same time, the construction industry says that there is good open capacity to deal with both maintenance and start-up of several new road projects. 40 pst. of the asphalting capacity has been utilised and 20 pst has been exceeded. free capacity for road construction. It's not on the money, it's not on projects, and there's capacity. What action will the Council of State take to reduce the delays in maintenance and to increase the rate of construction of new roads, so it really monasteries?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-24.ana.ud2089e179	I understand that the representative will not be reminded of the progress party's budgetary settlement with the previous government, so I shall not say one word about it in my reply. When it comes to this government's policy, we want to bet on transportation. We have a Soria Moria statement based on the agreement in the National Transport Plan, which also includes the Progress Party, which says that we should increase the investment level by 2.2 billion annually. That's what we're working for; in the current year we've added 835 million. kr, which is a good growth. We're on our way. We're not far enough, but we're on our way. I also want, as opposed to the previous government, to turn more of the bet over to maintenance. It's not when we meet with trumpets and bassoons out there, because both here in Stortinget and in the state there are many projects that a person wants to get start-up permissions on and get started. And I understand that, because, as the representative says, it is a screaming need both for maintenance and for new projects around our country. I was late yesterday in More and Romesdal, and I'm going to Telemark and Sogn and Fjordane the next week, and both running along the roads and talking to people strengthen what I know before, that we have a great need. My job is with the Government to follow up what we've been choosing, and what we're building on in the Government's work, simply to follow up the National Transport Plan and also to be able to strengthen the maintenance budget for years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-24.ana.ud2089e186	I thank you for your answer. The industry in Norway has a huge distance disadvantage, and it becomes extra large when the road network is poor. But it is also true that the imbalance between economic frameworks, plans and expectations in road construction is very high. For example, the Directorate of Roads has calculated that the cost of achieving a good standard, for example: on the main road network, is DKK 300 billion, and with the level of investment we know from this year's budget, in 2006, it will even take 70 years – 70 years to achieve full standards by means of tolls. What is this government's ambition in terms of time, how many years does this government and this departmental council see it going to take before we can get a better road network in Norway? I hope, of course, that this government will be very close for 70 years, but an ambition for how fast you want to move forward, I hope that this government and this council have.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-24.ana.ud2089e193	It would be a brilliant prospect for the country if this government were sitting for 70 years, even though some of us had to find ourselves in being replaced by younger forces afterwards. When it comes to the number of years it will take before we get a satisfactory name, it is, of course, impossible for me, as the representative knows, to say it exactly. It will depend on a lot of factors in our future country. But as I said in my main response, we have an intention to reverse the negative developments that have been in trade for many years. The share of traffic in the State budget has gone down. We're doing that work. We have both in the budget and in the revised budget the commitment to transport, we will continue to do so, and we will continue to work to improve the road network in the country – not only tribal roads, but also national roads and county roads. In the end, it is the county that is responsible for it. The fact that we now have a shift in the local economy allows the county to be able to catch up with the road network that may be the worst.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-24.ana.ud2089e203	There will be three follow-up questions – first Trond Helleland.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-24.ana.ud2089e206	I think we're all going to admit that the investment in road maintenance has not been good enough in any government, and that also testifies to the maturity we're seeing. However, the Council of State has now said — and repeated to the boring — that it is now going to be a different dance. Now we're going to speed things up, now we're going to bet more on maintenance. Then I find it exciting to read the revised budget, which has now been submitted. Well hidden on the Ministry's website, there is a detailed framework on how much this increase will be in the future, in an annex to the revised budget. I can figure out some numbers there: Oslo will get 3 million. kr extra for asphalting, Akershus will get 4 million. kr, Vestfold will get 4 million. kr and West-Agder, poor, will get extra zero kroner this year for asphalting. Is this a bet the council is satisfied with, or will it become a little puzzled?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-24.ana.ud2089e215	In any case, we have a commitment, unlike the previous government, which cut down on the maintenance in its budget. We've invested nearly 200 million. kr for maintenance, and it may well eventually approach that we come up at the zero point, where it was before the previous government took over and started their cut. In the light of that, I did not think the representative should be in a hurry. When we distribute a sum of 116 million. kr in many countries, will not be the sum of each. I could agree on that. Of course, the ambition must be to continue. But the sum-- well, 700 million. kr – which goes to asphaltification, is at least strengthened by this government and not cut, as it was by the previous government. I'm glad, because that means we've got another reverse operation. We've gone from getting a cut to getting a boost, and that's important. People will notice as time goes by, that we get more construction machines on the road and routes in this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-24.ana.ud2089e222	Jan Sahl – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-24.ana.ud2089e225	I heard with interest from the Council of State in the debate on Tabloid on TV 2 yesterday. I wondered again about this with the dose of Møller's tran, because the Council of State stated that we have not had a ten-year debate on transport in Norway. Understood: Only when the red-greens came into government, did the debate on transport speed. Where has the Council of State spent the last ten years — when, among other things, has the central government in which the Central Party took part? She further stated that the Cooperative Government cut off the appropriations for operation and maintenance on the roads. She repeated that now. It doesn't really match reality at all. We will admit that it was not good enough, but there were additions on the operating and maintenance side. We have a Minister of Transport who uses big words, but so far we see little follow-up to the words. The revised national budget contained a small increase, but it largely contributed to cleaning up matters that had to be dealt with in an important way. Now we have to look forward. [[The President clubs.]] I would like to ask the Prime Minister: are we getting project funding, which has been the big new one?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-24.ana.ud2089e236	State Council Liv Signe Navarsete. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-24.ana.ud2089e241	Thank you, President! It is right, as the representative Sahl says, that part of the funds in the revised budget had to go to clean up things that the previous government did not clean up. Both Creosotesaka and the fact that one had not taken away the income target as a distanced route charge, were things that I had to clean up after the previous government. When I said last night at Tabloid that we lack a public debate on transportation, I actually mean it. Then I mean a national public debate. I have had our regional politicians for ten years. In the regions, including in election campaigns, there is a difficult debate on the whole country's trade, but when one sits down and looks at national political debates on television, for example. in the last election campaigns, there are not many times the word commerce has been called. And that's what I mean by getting a national public debate on transport. I have called for it many times as a regional politician. I feel that we are getting it now, not least with the debate that was in Tabloid yesterday, and other debates. It's important, because this is something that concerns people throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-24.ana.ud2089e250	Borghild Tenden – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-24.ana.ud2089e253	Now the Minister of Transport is talking more about the previous government. I think that's kind of creepy when you're actually in a majority government. Last year, it was 730 million bets. kr on asphalt. This year, it's 700 million. kr on asphalt. But then to the question. Bondevik II has also invested a lot in public transport in large cities, because it is important for the urban environment, and it is important for the promotion of business from districts. In an interview with the Transport Forum, the Minister of Transport confirmed this and said that the previous government focused too much on public transport and that the road side was down priorities. Does that mean that in the future we will see that the road is given priority over public transport by the Stoltenberg government?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-24.ana.ud2089e260	This government's policy is a two-part commitment. It is to bet on public transport in and around the larger cities and make him so good that people actually do well because it is the best offer for the individual in their everyday lives, and it is to bet road construction in the districts. When it comes to road and rail investment and that balance, it is very clearly given in the National Transport Plan and in the Soria Moria Declaration. We're going to increase the bet by $1 billion on the road and $1 billion on the railway. So there we have a very nice balance -- actually, it'll give a greater percentage by rail than by road, because that budget is smaller initially. So the bet on public transport under this government won't be weighted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-24.ana.ud2089e267	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-24.ana.ud2089e271	I ask my question to the Minister for Transport. Norwegian aviation is currently affected by major concerns, unforeseeable strikes, disease incidents, random holiday settlements, lack of planning and threats of traffic disruption and delays. Aeroplane passengers can no longer be confident that aeroplanes will leave when they are required and must meet several hours before the aeroplane is due to leave, in order to have the hope of passing through the security controls. Few weights at work re-created queues in front of security controls at Gardermoen yesterday morning. Passengers lost their flight due to queues in the security controls, and several were so frustrated and angry that the police had to be called in to calm down people. Lack of weights on the job was the reason, and the management at Oslo Airport is afraid that the travelers will have to cover themselves for several days with a kitchen. Managing Director at Oslo Airport, Nic. Nilsen, said yesterday that he can't guarantee that the problems are over. The challenge of obtaining enough weights until the security controls have been resolved. Avinor and OSL are separate companies with their own directors and administrations, and the Council of State shall not govern the day-to-day operation of these companies. But the Minister of Transport is responsible for Norwegian aviation. It's actually her responsibility that aviation works properly. The Council of State is the General Assembly of Avinor and shall ensure that Avinor and OSL are governed in accordance with the stipulations of the Storting and in such a way as to satisfy the needs of travellers. The Minister of Transport needs to get Norwegian aviation back together. All of us who are going out and flying from a Norwegian airport have to be able to assume that the plane is going when it's going to, that we're not being prevented from reaching the plane of long queues, and that we're going where we're going in time. My question to the Minister will then be: How does the Council of State think about restoring predictability and confidence in Norwegian aviation, and what will she do in particular with the acute shortage of personnel that is currently at the Gardermoen security check?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-24.ana.ud2089e284	It is true that in recent times there has been a great deal of unrest in Norwegian aviation. I'm not going to go through that rule. That's the field I've spent most time on, I think, in the good six months I have our council. It is also right that Avinor and OSL are AS, they have their board of directors and day-to-day leases that have to take responsibility and that have been given clear messages from my side about taking responsibility for ensuring the stability and operational security of the various areas of aviation. When it comes to the specific question of security control at Oslo Airport Gardermoen, I have also communicated very clearly that one must do everything possible to restore a normal waiting time, which should basically be down to a maximum of a minute, or something like that, in a queue, when the train arrives, and not like now, that one might have to stand for 20 minutes or more. I have been assured that a person will do everything possible to increase the number of control points as well as to recruit crews to manage the checkpoints he has for security checks. I can't go directly in and be a recruitment company. This is simply a combination of a difficult situation that Adecco, a subcontractor, has to resolve – and as they are in the process of resolving – and that there have also been aggravating security requirements that have led to an increase in the number of control points to ensure that the cows are reduced. I trust that the management of OSL and Avinor will pay great attention to this, and that they will solve these problems in the best way possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-24.ana.ud2089e297	I thank the Council of State for the answer. But I'd like to drill a little bit more into the problems that aviation is currently facing. There is no doubt that European and Norwegian aviation are currently undergoing major change, and conversion processes require management. The head of the Air Traffic Management Association, Rolf Skrede, stated in yesterday's VG: ‘Changed by the Board of Directors of Avinor, once again, shows that we have been right in our warnings.’ He warns a bright future without strike, as long as the new director just does as the air traffic controllers say. Does the Council of State share the belief that the situation in Norwegian aviation will be corrected by the replacement of the Chairman of the Board of Directors? Is it the case that air traffic controllers' union and not the State Council are now to govern aviation? And does the Council of State think that by replacing the Executive Director and Chairman of the Board of Avinor she has completed the race and done the necessary steps to restore order and trust in Norwegian aviation?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-24.ana.ud2089e311	Firstly, of course, the leaders of Norwegian aviation are not the air traffic controllers. We have a history behind us. I was warned here earlier about talking about what's behind, but everything is related to everything. The fact that a halted challenge by air traffic controllers really makes us lack air traffic controllers today. It took quite many months to clear it up and on the table, but I have now received it, and it gives the air traffic controllers, of course, a strong negotiating position, which is then worked out over – perhaps I should say – many years. It is no secret that the air traffic controllers have had a strong negotiating position before. The fact that I chose to change the board there now is part of a completely natural process, where I was willing to do it at the general meeting, but did it three weeks before because of the very negotiating situation. And it's right that the new director can be involved in the request for the negotiations and add the leads that will have a lot to say for Avinor's future operations. I do not think that I have finished working on the situation of air traffic, and that is exactly why I have now started working on a strategy for Norwegian aviation.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-24.ana.ud2089e320	The President will allow three follow-up questions – first Arne Sortevik.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-24.ana.ud2089e323	Departed director and manager of Avinor have spent much of the company's time and resources on a conversion programme that the Stortinget and the Department have foreseen to maintain regularity. The programme has proved to be a chaos programme for air passengers, for airlines and, in fact, also for employees. Although the chaos instructors have been removed, there is a danger that the chaos will continue to haunt aircraft passengers for some time to come. How will the Council of State ensure that air traffic in Norway can be conducted in the summer of 2006 without the State company Avinor destroying travel and vacations for the most part?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-24.ana.ud2089e330	Yeah, that's right, it's been a major conversion program with a cost cut of about 400 million. kr, which was also the mandate. I want to distance myself from the characteristics of the former leader and director. After the mandate they received, they have done a considerable amount of work, which has probably been a burden on both the company's leadership, the board of directors and not least the company's membership. But it's done. When it comes to air traffic this summer, it's like, otherwise, the board and day-to-day rentals that are responsible for ensuring that we have regularity. We now have a negotiating situation that is necessary to come to an agreement in tariff negotiations, as we do in many other sectors of society. I hope that the next few weeks will lead to an agreement on a negotiated outcome that will give peace to air traffic this summer.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-24.ana.ud2089e339	Trond Helleland – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-24.ana.ud2089e342	I'm very pleased that the Council of State is taking the situation so seriously, because it seems that the management of the OSL is not so busy getting things right immediately. When they can say that it must be a month before we get two or three locks in place, we lack weights, we consider flying them in from other parts of the country, etc., I think it's a little off-limits to the air passengers. It is good that the Council of State is gripping this. In the case of air traffic controller issues, there is a lack of staffing. Has the Council considered collecting air traffic controllers from Denmark, where air traffic controllers have a retirement age of three years lower than the Norwegian one? This means that there is a steady flow of newly retired Danish air traffic controllers that can be put into turn in Norwegian aviation. Is there anything the Council of State has assessed?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-24.ana.ud2089e349	I can answer that affirmatively. We have assessed collecting air traffic controllers from both Denmark and other European countries. Air traffic control is now under way, including: translating all manuals into English, so that we can also pick up air traffic controllers from non-Nordic countries. This is a work that is in progress, where both the Air Safety Authority and, of course, Avinor have their roles to play. The safety moment shall be point-to-point. 1st@item: inlistbox But within the margins that lie there, we're going to do everything possible to remedy the situation that has arisen as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-24.ana.ud2089e354	Borghild Tenden – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-24.ana.ud2089e358	In December 2005, during one of the many conflicts in Avinor, the Minister of Transport said to the Post of Aften: Air traffic controllers have great power. It is important that they do not abuse their power so that they lose confidence among management, the owner and people most. The Minister for Transport repeated this in his first reply. What will the Council of State do to make sure that she is the leader, not the air traffic controllers and their organization? What concrete action will she take?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-24.ana.ud2089e365	When it comes to the concrete grips, I guess I thought about it for the previous follow-up question. One thing is to try to get air traffic controllers from other countries. There is a work in progress. Unfortunately, in many other countries there is a lack of air traffic controllers, but there are possibilities. In the longer term, European cooperation, of which we are a part, could also provide for cooperation at Nordic level in order to manage parts of aviation as a common area. But it's a separation longer canvas to bleach. Of course, in the case of day-to-day operations, it is Avinor's board of directors and the day-to-day rental that is responsible for it. What I'm doing is looking at the larger lines. I agree with and facilitate that both the Air Safety Authority and the Department can be involved in discussions at general meeting level – perhaps say so. I am not in the daily business, I left it to those who are responsible for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-24.ana.ud2089e374	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-24.ana.ud2089e377	I would like to ask a question to the Minister for Children and Gender Equality, who is also responsible for consumer matters. The co-operation management set up a selection called the Nyborg Committee, which had many proposals to limit advertising related to children and young people, among others. rules on advertising at school. As a major representative, the Council of State was very committed to this, so committed that in April last year she asked questions in this Chamber about the progress of the Nyborg Committee. At a conference held in December, the Council of State also had a strong commitment to limiting advertising to children and young people. According to the Newspaper, the Councils of State spoke out inter alia:: The school should be an arena where you don't have the press. The school shall be free of advertising. I have been given a booklet about Ibsen called "Ibsen in our time". It has a cover showing Ibsen texting. The booklet is fully funded by DnB NOR and has a lot of links to DnB NOR's intro programme. The booklet opens with a foreword by the Council of State Guessing in your government. My question is whether the Council of State thought it was particularly wise, whether it is such a kind of advertising she sees should be okay. Where, then, does the limit on what kind of advertising the Council of State seems to be okay? When you asked Clemet about the follow-up to the Nyborg Committee, you ended up with, after the answer from Clemet: This is great. So really my question to the Council of State about her, when she saw the statement with Mr. Guess, thought: this is great.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-24.ana.ud2089e392	The President reminds us that questions are addressed by the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-24.ana.ud2089e395	Firstly, I would like to say that I really understand that the representative is using the opportunity to ask such a question. Before answering the specific question, I would like to say that when we talk about consumer policy, it is important to take the children's situation into account. We know that developments in our society have been such that more and more children and young people are experiencing an increase in commercial pressure, where we also experience that there are many who are unable to join the purchasing career, and this causes huge problems for many. When the discussion in Stortinget concerns child poverty and how we can do concrete things to help the poor children, I also think it is important that we take this perspective with us. That's why I've been very committed to the fact that where children and young people are, we're going to have some unadvertised zones in our society, and I think the school is going to be such an arena. With regard to the specific question of DnB NOR and the foreword in the specific book, I have to be honest and say that I do not fully know the background for the Minister of Culture giving his contribution there. I expect that the representative will also ask the Minister of Culture that question. But the government is concerned that we're going to have an advertisement-free school going on, and we don't want to change politics in that field in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-24.ana.ud2089e404	I thank the Council of State. I think it's a good commitment the Council of State has in this field, which I also share, and which I hope you will find a reasonable enforcement of. State Secretary Upperland of the Ministry of Culture said in the evening post today on questions about whether she believes that this should be legal or not, that ‘there is no such prohibition’ today. Then my question to the Council of State – through the President, of course – is whether it could have been possible to move forward in the follow-up to the Nyborg Committee, and whether it could be thought that such a ban could have been introduced, as it is clear that not all the Councils share the commitment of this Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-24.ana.ud2089e415	I can assure you that the government has a strong commitment that we will have an advertisement-free zone in school. It will be irrelevant for this red-green government to introduce a new regime. We saw that it was quite strong flirting from the previous government to introduce some advertising in the school. We also saw that there was some disagreement between the different government parties in that field. I think I and the representative have the same view, and then we'll try to ally ourselves in a good way, so that in the future we can have some advertising-free zones for our children.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-24.ana.ud2089e420	The President will accept three follow-up questions – first Ulf Erik Knudsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-24.ana.ud2089e423	The Progress Party has programmed free school material. I have registered that the government has also promised this, but that you have trouble delivering. We don't see anyone contouring either in the budget or in the revised national budget. This is one of many areas where this government doesn't deliver. Earlier today, we have seen that it is not done in the road sector. When you can't deliver in a political area, shouldn't you think about something new? From the Progress Party we are not negative to supplement with advertising-funded books. We'll give the Council of State commend him for participating in this advertising-funded publication. My question to the Consumer Minister is: how could it be so bad for Norwegian students, who are exposed to advertising everywhere else in society, and who have become clearly good at selecting and seeing what is advertising, and what is not, that one, for example, is. Do you get a textbook like the one I have here, where you have 100 pages of real learning material, and then you have 15-20 company presentations at the back of the book? So you get it for free.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-24.ana.ud2089e432	I actually think it would be a complete failure statement if we in our country get there that we have to finance the textbooks for our children with advertising money. We turn on our chests repeatedly and say we have the world's best country to live in. It's precisely because we've been willing to regulate market forces as well. It is about consumer policy, and it is about the best of children. If we are not to take seriously, among other things: what the Nyborg Committee says about the commercial pressure on children and young people, yes, I am also worried about as Minister for Children. We've also seen that market actors themselves are expressing the same thing. We saw that those who sat and participated in the Nyborg Committee expressed the exact same thing as what we express here. Then I want to say that the government has been sitting for a few months, and I can promise that we're going to go out and deliver. We are now allowed to present a government budget. We have submitted a revised national budget, but let's now present a government budget for the autumn.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-24.ana.ud2089e440	Olemic Thommessen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-24.ana.ud2089e443	I understand from the Council of State's commitment that she has strong objections to children being in some way exposed to advertising – also from a bank, which may well not have to be experienced as a very aggressive actor in relation to the child's consumption. In 2008 it is Wergeland-year. Wergeland wrote beautiful things for children that I think it will be a good idea to revitalize for our time. What if a bank found out that it would give all pre-school children — perhaps especially those who were at child protection institutions, a field that is actually within the Council of State — an adventure book or a collection of poems with Wergeland's best-known children's space? Would the Council of State oppose this? In that case, she might come up with a suggestion that her department and the Ministry of Culture could agree to pay such a gift to a generation of Norwegian children.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-24.ana.ud2089e450	I want to say that the way our media everyday is, no one believes that you can protect children and young people completely from advertising. The more important it is that we teach our children and young people how to actually deal with the advertisement you get into your living room. We also experience an increasingly tougher everyday life, and I think that the opposition may not take enough inwards the developments we have had, where there is an ever stronger pressure. There will be different kinds of information that flows to our school youth in a good way – of course it will – but we must constantly have the ability to draw up some limits to the commercial pressure that goes towards the schoolyard. There I am perfectly aware that bourgeois, conservative parties are more concerned with market forces than what this government is, which are actually concerned with the best of the children and of protecting them.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-24.ana.ud2089e457	May-Helen Molvær Grimstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-24.ana.ud2089e460	I must say that the Council of State shoots with lashes now, in this noise of the previous government and of today's government. We're probably seeing the difference between being in position and being in opposition. In the opposition was a very critical and pronounced itself very clear, but now comes one on thin ice compared to a work that the Teacher Publisher has published, «The Ibsen in our time». It's funded by a bank and sent to all the country's youth schools. I understand that there may be a problem with the borderline relative to contributions from business, as a ruler or whatever. But according to what the government said in the opposition, it doesn't matter what it says now, that if there's advertising in school books, it's a «debt statement». I totally agree that it would be a failure statement, but when a government council writes a foreword in a work sent to all youth schools, there is a little difference.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-24.ana.ud2089e467	I just have to be allowed to say that now I do not fully understand what the representative refers to. I feel that I have had a very consistent line in these questions, both today and in the opposition, as opposed to the Christian People's Party, which clearly looks for its identity by day and flirts a little both here and there. You might want to have a discussion about it. But I want to make sure that my commitment has been quite similar to the commercial pressure towards children and young people, and the government will have the best starting point for the child also when we discuss this in the continuation.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-24.ana.ud2089e472	The size goes to dealing with the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-24.ana.ud2089e475	My question goes to the Council of State Åslaug Haga. The municipal minister has made some juicy promises on behalf of the municipalities for the coming years, especially in school and care for the elderly. It's easy to make promises, especially on behalf of others. But how can the Council of State know that the local government in all 431 municipalities will invest in care for the elderly and school, when the Government does not commit to earmarking money for important national welfare tasks in the 2007 municipal bill? A report by the Central Statistical Office states that municipalities give priority to prominent cultural houses and more administration when they receive increased free income. According to the SSB, the priority is precisely school and care for the elderly. In fact, the report goes so far that it says that the community's commitment to primary school, care and care seems to be inelastic to income change. This means in clear terms that one additional crown in transfers leads to zero extra bets on municipal budgets for welfare. So even though the government is adding up to a income increase of NOK 2 billion to the municipalities, we are not guaranteed better well-being. In other words, only the proposals of the Progress Party on earmarking and price financing will guarantee better welfare services. Perhaps it is time for the Government to also realise that not all challenges in society can be solved by increasing budget lines. My question to the Council of State is whether the Government is deliberately leading people out of the light, or whether it is the case that the Council of State has not actually read the report «Incomesselasticities for municipal services» from perm to perm?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-24.ana.ud2089e488	As you know, the government provides a significant boost to the local economy. For 2006 and 2007, municipalities will have an increase of around DKK 8 billion in free income. I can assure you that there are going to be services of that. In fact, when Norwegian municipalities receive the funds as free income, they spend about two thirds of the money on school, care and care – 41 pst. for care, 35 pst. to school. That's the average. Then the challenges in Norwegian municipalities are usually different. Some municipalities have full coverage in the care of the elderly. In other municipalities, you don't have it. Then it would be pointless to create A4 solutions that force the municipalities to align themselves with state initiatives. All the experience suggests that making state bets, government designation, makes extremely poor use of the money. That lesson is important for us to spread to all parties. Most people have come to realize that ear tagging actually results in inefficiencies. We know that the Progress Party does not mean it. But all the economic analyses that we can look up just illustrate this.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-24.ana.ud2089e495	What is said here from the Council of State is obviously wrong. Through a single-cost financing of important welfare services, we will ensure that there is a need for the service that is essential for payment, not as it is today, statistical models that are reasonably complex and hopeless to deal with. In the nations, which I am sure the Council of State reads daily, it was recently an article that stated that the progressive party municipalities are actually the municipalities of the country that put the most emphasis on care for the elderly. Unfortunately, we have no guarantee that municipalities run by other parties, do the same. On the contrary: it actually indicates more that there is culture for the few that are given priority, rather than welfare for most people. If the Minister of State is more concerned with increasing transfers to the municipalities of the State budget than with ensuring that the money is used correctly, why is the Government making such offensive promises on behalf of the municipalities in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-24.ana.ud2089e502	The government assumes that the wit is fairly evenly distributed in the country. In fact, we do not believe that the people of the Progress Party on the Stortinget or the centre parties on the Stortinget know much better than the progress party people and the centre parties have locally. We basically believe that people locally are good at prioritizing different tasks. School and health are important. We put the framework for bet on these fields. If you look at what you spend on local culture, it's definitely not the cultural houses that get the big money, it's the local voluntary cultural work, which is very important for the development of good communities. So I would like to say that there is something that really will contribute to red tape, which I thought the Progress Party was against, that is price financing.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-24.ana.ud2089e510	The President will accept three follow-up questions – first Bent Höie.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-24.ana.ud2089e513	Also the Right believes that both the wit and the social conscience are equally distributed in the country. But now the Government of the Municipality Proposition announces that they will return with a new income system for municipalities in 2009. The proposition states that the Government will set down a selection to work on this in the light of the professional work done by the Borge Committee. But we were several who were very surprised when we read the last edition of the Municipal Report, where State Secretary Dag-Henrik Sandbakken says that there are politicians from the three government parties who will make up this selection. The majority of the Norwegian people actually live in municipalities governed by parties other than the three government parties. This is also a system of income that should be predictable for municipalities, a system that is therefore to be introduced in the same year as it is capitalisation. Does the Council not see that it would have been an advantage to invite with all parties, and not least with the Municipal Councils' Central Associations, in the political process of developing a new income system?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-24.ana.ud2089e524	It is right that we should have a review of the professional work that is now on the table – from the Borge Committee. We believe that the work of the Borge Committee, as it exists, causes distortions in the distribution of funds to the municipalities, which we cannot accept. For example, a solution was found. not the challenges associated with the municipalities of growth, as little as problems related to municipalities with a decline in population were solved. And the district profile of the Borge Committee was, in our opinion, not acceptable. That being said, there is a professional work at the bottom, as those who have been in the Borge Committee have done. We'll build on that. We will have a review of this professional work, but it will not least be important now to put the political leaders at the top of this professional work. The organisation of this has not been fully finalised.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-24.ana.ud2089e531	Bjørg Tørersdal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-24.ana.ud2089e534	The government has granted more money to the municipalities and announced that the escalation will continue, and it seems the Christian People's Party is good. But the government has great ambitions about what the money is going to do, and all governments have to deal with the fact that the money can only be spent once. We now see in the municipal bill that there have been leaders: 2 000 new annual works, which is highly desirable, one must be able to pay the costs, the NAV reform must be payable, and the fact that more students in secondary school must be paid. It might almost seem that ambition is something big, and I would like to have a comment on it. If you take the lead, the room for action for local politicians will be small again. The Christian People's Party has faith in local democracy, but it must be an economic space if you're to have some money to decide about. Finally, the Christian People's Party would very much like to be involved in the political priorities to be set when creating a new income system. The government has said that they want us in terms of something as important as a new income system, and we want to be in the sample.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-24.ana.ud2089e541	Let me just follow up the last one first, which is the work we're going to do in relation to the Borge Committee. We're busy finding ways to connect all the games to that work. Then we have not entirely taken a decision on what form it should take. But what I can guarantee is that we'll work closely with all parties to come up with good solutions. But let me get back to the final organization something later. The Christian People's Party and the Center Party, with the Government, have common ambitions to facilitate increased freedom of action locally. This is about economic freedom, and it is about political freedom of action. We follow-up by providing municipalities with financial space for action in 2007. What is important for me to stress is that within the framework laid down, there is room for strengthening both school and care for the elderly.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-24.ana.ud2089e548	André N. Skkelstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-24.ana.ud2089e551	Governments have been in this respect with the welfare of municipalities earlier in this sequence. She said yesterday, among other things. that you wanted to bet on several municipal buildings, which I think is good. The report that Haga the Council of State mentions shows that it is not just the homeless in the big cities that are struggling, the growth in the number of homeless is greatest in the small municipalities. The Council of State party trap Anne Enger Lahnstein introduced the concept of Difference Norway in this situation. What will the Council of State do to reduce the differences between the districts and the big cities? The only measure, the measure, we have so far seen that the Government has put up with regard to the homeless in the countryside, is the possibility of imposing property taxes.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-24.ana.ud2089e558	It is quite correct that the latest up-to-date figures that we have received show that the number of homeless people is increasing proportionately more in smaller municipalities than in cities. The explanation of this is enough to say that, in the case of the homeless, most of the cities have been focused. So you can probably view the numbers as the result of the effort that you've had in the cities, actually worked. With regard to the instruments we have in relation to the homeless, much rests on local economy. Municipalities should also have room for action to deal with the housing side, which has been down-priorityed in the later years. In addition, there are many tools in the House Bank. There are earmarked instruments, and they are available to all municipalities at sea. Now we strongly encourage the municipalities that have increased the number of homeless people to contact the House Bank. There's money there.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-24.ana.ud2089e565	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-24.ana.ud2089e568	The last few days have shown that the regional reform, for which Åslaug Haga is responsible, meets resistance not only in the Right, but also far into her own party and in the other government parties. More and more local politicians have started to wake up and see that this is a reform that can lead to significant centralisation. Former head of the Center Party Anne Enger Lahnstein says she is afraid that large regions can lead to centralisation within the region. The head of the Eastfold Center Party says he's an opponent, and doesn't see what you can win with the reform. The leader of the Moors and the Romesdal Center Party says the same thing. And the rapporteur from the Central Party in North Aurdal says that 'for Sp's part, one is in the process of leading the greatest centralization of power in a hundred years'. In today's World Gang Olav Gunnar Ballo of SV has a very good and eye-catching article on regional reform. He says that he is afraid that this reform can lead to significant centralisation, but not least he points to the fundamental question: what is the reason why the Government is in favour of reform without any apparent need to implement this reform, which is actually one of the greatest reforms in recent times. And he asks a very central question: what is the question, whose major regions are the answer? I would like to repeat that question to the responsible Council of State today, because very many do not see the need for this reform, and I fear now the consequence of it, both that undemocratic reform is being carried out in an undemocratic way, and that the consequences of the reform will be a significant centralisation. What is the question, whose major regions are the answer?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-24.ana.ud2089e582	It's not that the answer is big regions. The answer is that we must implement a democratisation reform and a decentralisation reform. We have always said that we need to move forward in this reform, which means that we first have to look at the tasks – which tasks are to be moved to the regional level, possibly to the municipal level – and when that job is done, we need to look at the geographical breakdown. How large a region it will be, today we are not able to say anything about it. I note that in many of the debate now, difficult regions are being developed. Then I just have to repeat what I've repeated for a long time, that here we're going to go step by step, now we're going to do the problems, and that's what we're going to focus on. There is no reason to be surprised that there is a debate on such an important reform as the administrative reform is and will be. What I might think the representative Höie should be a little careful about, it is to suggest – so one can get the impression through his questions now – that he and those who have asked questions about the arrangements for this reform agree. The starting point is that the lots have different starting points. Right wants a two-level model, the Government and the Center are quite clear that we want a three-level model.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-24.ana.ud2089e589	One of the main reasons for the representative Olav Gunnar Ballo is that Norway, as a small country, does not need three levels of government – we are, after all, no larger than a small part of a city in London. But there is absolutely reason to ask if it is not time for the head of the Central Party and the responsible Council of State to start listening to their own, when one has set up a raw drive to implement this reform as early as 2010. So that means that one comes with the division of tasks in the autumn of 2006, and then the matter has to be dealt with in the Storting, so one has to have a discussion about the geographical breakdown, and then this has to be in place. This means that the parties, which are now in the process of nominating the county elections in 2007, do not yet know whether there is a period of two years or four years. They write programs that they don't know about for two years or four years. Nor can the government spend any more time, get a good evaluation of today's county councils and get a good discussion on the basis of this reform before they run this rough, this undemocratic process, in relation to a severe reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-24.ana.ud2089e596	The government is not running anything raw. Thematics related to intermediate levels in Norway have been on the agenda for years. What it's missing in this process is the ability to make decisions. There are researched binding thesises, as the representative knows well, and the time is definitely ripe for making decisions. The government is adding up to a process where we're just listening. That's why we now have advice around our three parties, so we're conducting regional hearings, so we're practicing an open door in the Ministry of Local Affairs, where everyone who wants to talk about these things gets to come, that's why we travel a lot around the country to listen. There are no investigations and evaluations on it; it is on the ability to act.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-24.ana.ud2089e603	The President will allow two follow-up questions – first Ib Thomsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-24.ana.ud2089e606	The cooperation parties of state councils and several of their colleagues are clearly divided in the view of this with regions. It also appears clearly in today's VG. If ‘there is no willingness to have three levels of government with sufficient power and authority, we should only have State and municipality’, says Sverre Myrli, head of Akershu’s Labour Party. ‘A ‘half-hearted’ region level is not an alternative to the only change being that we get a little bigger counties’, says Grouchingsrepresentative Myrli. [[...]] Why are the colleagues of the Council so sceptical? Should not the Council of State ensure that there are clear and unambiguous signals about this important issue of society, which affects so many, and not signals that crack in all directions? We thought we would have a predictability when we got this new government.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-24.ana.ud2089e615	There is no doubt about what is the government's policy. It is set out in the Soria Moria Declaration. An administrative reform shall be implemented from 1 January 2010 based on a three-tier model. What is set out in the Soria Moria Declaration is also well thought of in the party programme of all the three government parties, so there is no doubt about it. That there is some disagreement within the parties if you want two levels or three levels, no one should be surprised. But there is no doubt about the government's policy. There is no doubt about the policy of the three parties. It is also interesting to note that KS produced a document yesterday, where the Progress Party and the Right are also involved in the final decisions. There is a very detailed description of how a three-tier model should actually work.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-24.ana.ud2089e622	Bjørg Tørersdal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-24.ana.ud2089e625	The Christian People's Party wants a regional reform. We want a reform that will enable major tasks such as transport, the environment, health and food development to be tackled in a better way than today. We want a reform that is about moving power out of Oslo and out closer to people, and that the tasks should be subject to popular governance. For the Christian People's Party, it is important that it becomes a democratic reform, that is. that the tasks come under popular control and closer to where people live. To solve these problems, one has to have larger regions than the ones we have today. There have been some concerns about this particular question. It is said from the Council of State and the Soria Moria Declaration that if you do not have the regions as large as it is said today, you will have strong regions. And it's vital to get a force, it must be the size of these. They have to be larger than the states we have today, just to get big tasks under popular governance.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-24.ana.ud2089e632	There is a good summary by the representative Tørresdal here of what are the objectives of the regional reform, the administrative reform. Here the Christian People's Party is completely in line with the Government. We're all concerned about creating robust regions. If the regions are to become robust, they demand first and foremost the input of tasks, and that is the process we are in now. Once we clear up the problems, we'll see how we're going to deal with the geography. We've sailed a side view of the geography of this process. We also want to include in the message that comes to the Storting in the fall, the message that is mainly about the tasks, some leads for the debate related to geography and the geographical breakdown.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-24.ana.ud2089e639	The oral question procedure is now over, and we're going to the ordinary questioning procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-24.ana.ud2089e646	There will be some changes to the list of questions set out, and the President will refer in this context to the overview distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 1, from the representative Finn Martin Vallersnes to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, has been withdrawn. Question 2, from the representative of Marit Nybakk to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Development on behalf of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who has been away. Question 4, from the representative Per Roar Bredvold to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade, will be answered by the Minister for Finance who directs him. Question 12, from the representative of Olemic Thommess to the Minister for Children and Gender Equality, is moved and answered at the request of the Council of State for question 2. Question 15, from the representative of Mr Gerit Gérde to the Minister for Fisheries and Coast, will be answered by the Minister for Food and Trade on behalf of the Minister for Fisheries and Coast, who has been away. At the request of the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade, this question is moved and answered in response to question 5, to be answered by the same Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-24.ana.ud2089e674	This question has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-24.ana.ud2089e681	This question, from the representative of Marit Nybakk to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Development on behalf of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who has been away.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-24.ana.ud2089e684	I have allowed myself to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs the following questions, which I understand will be answered by the Minister for Development: ‘Recently, there has been a growing repression of Kurds in Turkey. Among other things, children have been imprisoned in Diyarbekir, and democratic rights have been restricted. Will the Minister for Foreign Affairs take these matters up with Turkey?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-24.ana.ud2089e698	The Kurdish separatist movement PKK lifted its unilateral ceasefire last year, which has been part of the background of the constant clashes between PKK activists and security forces over the past few months. The situation was, as Marit Nybakk came in, particularly critical in Diyarbekir at the end of March. Street struggles between demonstrators and security forces led to many deaths, and several minors were arrested and reportedly still in prison. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs is following this situation very closely. Several Norwegian non-governmental organisations also follow the human rights situation in Turkey and are in close contact with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Norwegian Embassy in Ankara on these issues. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs is not aware of any restrictions on the formal democratic rights of Turkey. However, it is a fact that a new terrorist law is being discussed in Parliament and that it is controversial in this context. The Turkish judiciary is now investigating what has happened to the unrest in Diyarbekir. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs will follow closely how the Turkish system handles this. In recent years, Norway has focused on a broad dialogue with Turkey, a dialogue involving security policy, European policy, business issues and human rights issues. Critical issues relating to human rights and democracy are regularly addressed, and we will continue to do so. Some things are followed up, for example: with a presence in legal proceedings. Norway has been an observer at several court meetings during a criminal case against Kurdish children accused of burning the Turkish flag. The trial against the children of Mersin has shown that although Turkey has new criminal law more in line with European standards, there are still shortcomings in the case-law. Norwegian and other international presences at court meetings affect local authorities in the right direction. Norway has supported and will continue to support several human rights projects in Turkey, including Kurds as a target group. Turkey's potential for bridge-building between the West and the Islamic world provides prospects and opportunities that need to be exploited. But then it becomes important that the Kurdish part of the population feel their interests cared for, and that the conflict in that part of the country is resolved by peaceful and non-violent means.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-24.ana.ud2089e709	I would like to thank you for your answer and, of course, I agree that a broad dialogue with Turkey is important. I think dialogue is important not least because of the role Turkey can play just as a bridge builder between Europe and the Islamic part of the world. Now we meet Turkey, among other things. in NATO, and Turkey is an important ally. They also have candidate country status vis-à-vis the EU, and in many contexts the EU has been very concerned about the human rights situation ahead of that status. The Council of Europe has also been concerned about the situation in Turkey for years. With regard to the multilateral institutions in which we meet Turkey – and this may be particularly true of NATO, also because we have a common interest in NATO as a foreign country, but a member of NATO at the moment – is it that the Minister of Development or Government will also address these matters in the multilateral forums?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-24.ana.ud2089e716	In any case, these many multilateral forums provide opportunities to deal with this with Turkish authorities in addition to bilateral talks at Council level and through our embassy in Ankara, so that multilateral relations provide such opportunities. If you look at it in substance, there is no doubt that what has affected legal standards and democracy most in Turkey is the process of applying for EU membership, which has clearly contributed to the fact that legal standards and democracy, including minority protection for Kurds, have taken significant steps forward. In that process, counterpowers have also emerged in recent times in the form of resistance to Turkish membership of the EU, and also resistance to some of the requirements imposed on Turkey as part of the search process. But it may be difficult to doubt that so far this application process has had a very significant positive impact on Turkey, and overall Turkey has been in a path that has gone in a democratic direction in recent years.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-24.ana.ud2089e721	Let me first say that I very much agree that the applicant process has had a positive effect on Turkey. I think that's absolutely right. However, it is alarming now, and we have received information from both Kurds in Oslo and groups who have come up and visited the Foreign Affairs Committee, that what has happened in Diyarbekir is actually the biggest turmoil in Turkey in the last ten years. Then it bothers me that we might have a set-back in relation to the positive development that has been. Mass detention centres of children – I think it was 80 pieces – are completely unacceptable. I am therefore very pleased that the U.D. is following this matter closely, and believe that Norway can also contribute to the positive role that we played in relation to the candidate country status in relation to the EU for Turkey, if you have a dialogue with Turkey and put some pressure behind it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-24.ana.ud2089e728	Let it not be the slightest doubt that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Minister of Foreign Affairs and I fully agree with Marit Nybakk that the arrest of children is unacceptable, and that we will follow very closely what happens in that way. Clearly, setbacks should be closely monitored and see if Norway can influence to prevent them. But if you look at it from a large perspective, Turkey has gone over the last few years in a clear democratic direction, and Interestingly, also under the leadership of a party that had the origins of Islamic forces in Turkey, and as the West in the 1990s wanted to isolate and have nothing to do with it – I remember we had debates about this in the Great Britain too – but that then came to power, and has contributed, along with the process of EU membership, to the democratization of Turkey. But like Marit Nybakk, we're going to be very vigilant against setbacks and closely monitor what's going on, and contribute from the Norwegian side to creating attention and interest and, hopefully, have a positive impact on what's going on.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-24.ana.ud2089e733	So we go to question 12.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-24.ana.ud2089e740	I have allowed myself to ask the Minister for Children and Gender Equality the following questions: ‘The Council of State has notified measures to improve the protection of children. Among these, it is proposed to rebuild state institutions, allegedly because, according to the Council of State, private institutions are too expensive and too poor. What evidence does the Council of State support in this regard, does the Council of State consider that public operation and ownership are a guarantee of better quality at a lower price, and does the Council of State see that private child protection institutions also contribute to a diversity that can have a positive impact on the overall supply?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-24.ana.ud2089e749	First of all, I would say that there are a number of good private institutions that we need, and that we naturally use. By the end of 2005, there were about 100 more children in private child protection institutions than in state institutions. It is clear that private institutions are, and will continue to be, an important part of the overall supply to children and young people who, for various reasons, cannot live at home or in foster homes. It is also very important that we ensure the quality of both our private and state institutions. It is therefore important that we have put in place an approval system and a quality regulation that is handled by Bufetat. The private institutions may be divided into two main groups, institutions run by non-profit institutions and institutions run by private commercial operators. The voluntary organisations do not have a profit motive and have entered into different agreements with the country, including: operating arrangements. There the state can control both the economy and the professional content. Places in other private institutions are provided by competitive tendering and non-profit institutions serving households may also participate. The new Children’s Protection Act, which entered into force in 1993, introduced its own provisions on the treatment of illegitimate children and young people in the law at the same time as the state special schools were built up, and a new private market for the construction of child protection institutions was created. The counties at the time did not follow up on the establishment of public institutions. During 2005 and 2006, one new state child protection institution has been established in each of our five regions. The treatment of these institutions is based on the very latest research. The treatment results for young people living in these institutions shall be evaluated. When introducing new methods, it is essential that the State has sound governance both with the resource effort, the treatment facility and the results. I can also inform you that, when the County Children's Protection Institutes were acquired, the State has closed down public institutions that have not functioned satisfactorily or that have failed to fit in with the whole of the region's institutional services. The prices of private commercial institutions we know vary greatly, and some of them are very expensive. In some cases, the price is high because the resource effort required to make a good enough offer is actually so high. In other cases, however, there is a lack of good alternative offers that makes the price high. It's a market for it. In general, there has been a particular shortage of state sites that can offer a range of complex behavioural problems to young people. We want to replace some of the private commercial institutions with government places primarily for three reasons: Firstly, the capacity of today's state institutions must be used to the best possible extent. This is essential in order to comply with the budget framework of the establishment. If Bufetate is able to make full use of its capacity, the number of placements in private institutions will be reduced. Secondly, the further development of State spaces that can deal with young people with complex behavioural problems will increase the competence of national child protection. It is important that the State maintains a high level of competence, including: to offer appropriate measures to individual children. For example, it is an objective that all emergency placements are to be handled within the state apparatus, so that one ensures that Bufetat, who is to find offers for children/youth in cooperation with the municipalities and the home, arrives at the earliest possible time. Thirdly, the development of the State offer in some contexts is necessary in order to prevent private individuals from acting as a monopolist and taking out a high profit from their offers. In these cases, it is an objective that Buffetat should be more able to offer an adequate alternative within its own tools. The government is concerned that there is a good and varied provision of institutions across the country, and that all those in need of space should receive an individual and well-adapted offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-24.ana.ud2089e772	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer, and I notice that she says that there is also a lot of good in private child protection. I fully agree with that. However, I have some comments to make to the Council of State. I see that in the light of the fact that the Council of State very often flag a rather critical attitude towards the private closest on a principle basis. These three reasons for expanding the public sector, I would like to comment. One was about the use of capacity. If there is a surplus of capacity, there should not be a great need to build many new institutions. With regard to the state competence, and that it's important, I agree with that. Of course, it is important to have State competence, but it is also important that the state acts in a way that makes it useful to the competences of private institutions. It's important that it's not perceived as a contradiction. The last thing I want to say about building a government offer to prevent the private from becoming monopolists is that in that case it is important that the state and the private operate on equal terms.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-24.ana.ud2089e783	First, I want to distance myself from the approach that the representative had. I think I did quite thoroughly prepare for my vision. The important thing is that we're able to have quality criteria in place, which means that we're ensuring these kids the best, and not that we're giving some private owners great opportunities for profit without these kids actually getting the services. It's like, at the end of the seventh, the community funds we use to pay these places, and that's why I really would have both believed and hoped that the bourgeois parties were also concerned with the approach to these issues. I think that the market can function in an excellent way in regulating costs, demand and quality in many areas. But I'm a little more uncertain about whether the market is suitable for regulating institutions for children's protection. On the contrary, we have seen that there have been many examples over the years that we have not been able to deliver in the way we should. [[The President clubs.]] That's why the government's starting point is...
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-24.ana.ud2089e790	I agree with the starting point of the Council of State. Clearly, the important thing is to get the service delivered. It is important to make a good offer to the children. Then we think it might be at least as important to build up public competences, so that the public is a good buyer, a good supervisor and a good representative on behalf of the children. Then there is an important focus, perhaps more important than just whether the institutions are public or private. I hope that the Council of State will also invest resources at that very part of the work. When it comes to the moment you talk about private institutions, you talk about profit, I would remind you that there are a lot of people in the private sector, as the Council of State was also at the beginning, working on an ideal basis. Nor can I see that there is necessarily some fundamental contrast between profit and quality. The important thing is diversity, that we have a variety of child protection services that can stimulate this area, provide good quality and be a dynamic area that reaps experience from each other.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-24.ana.ud2089e797	I would like to agree with the representative that it is important that we build a good quality at our institutions. We also need to have an education for those who work with the weakest children, which means that we ensure them a good offer. As you can see, a lot has happened in this field. I was late yesterday in Stjørdal and opened a new institution that is just going to follow up and take care of youth with behavioral problems in a completely new way, where one goes much more thoroughly into the preliminary process. We have treatment, and we also have follow-up protection from the local environment. So there are methods that are being developed, and therefore it is important – I see that speaking time is running out – that the state is in a way in control of this important sector. At the same time, I would like to start a full-time study at the end that of course we should have good private initiatives in this field, and there I believe we have a good story behind us. But those who violate the authorisation regulations do not have the right of life to operate such a type of treatment for these children.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-24.ana.ud2089e802	The size then goes back to question 3.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-24.ana.ud2089e809	I allow myself to ask the Minister for the Environment the following questions: ‘The Directorate for Nature Management has sent a proposal for a revised regulation on the keeping and rearing of game for consultation. This proposal will directly address the possibilities of training and hunting hunting dogs by imposing a ban on the launching of game. Because the population of partridges and pheasant is not sustainable, this will mean the end of hunting these species. The proposal has aroused great concern in bird dog clubs. Will the Council of State take this concern seriously and not impose a ban on the launching of game?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-24.ana.ud2089e818	The starting point for the question is a regulation on the keeping and rearing of game laid down by the Directorate for Nature Management on 15 February 1999. The Directorate has now launched a revision of the Regulation, including: to follow up our obligations under the Convention on Biological Diversity as regards the dissemination of alien organisms. The Executive Board's proposal for a revised regulation is out of the question at the hearing on 5 July of this year. In previous regulations, the launching of game has been permitted for certain species and under certain conditions. The Executive Board's proposal for a revised regulation means that such a release is no longer permitted. The launching of game has primarily been the launching of game for hunting or for the training of bird dogs. The Directorate is familiar with the release of fowl, such as: pheasant and partridge, has been in progress for many years and that in some areas the activity has also had a certain extent. In the light of current knowledge of potential adverse effects, the Directorate no longer finds the basis for continuing these activities. The pheasant is a foreign species in Norway. In the case of partridges, the natural indigenous population is likely to be very few and the species is placed in the highest threat category in the national red list for endangered species. Rape is to be counted as a foreign species if it is introduced into areas where it does not already occur. This is the result of Section 47 of the Wildlife Act. In the letter of consultation, the Directorate has highlighted the high level of attention in recent years on the potential adverse effects of alien species in the natural environment. In addition, the Directorate has shown that there is a real risk that farmed game may be the bearer of infectious diseases which may spread to wild populations of the same species or related species. The power to lay down rules on the keeping and rearing of game has been delegated to the Directorate for Nature Management. Following the implementation of the consultation on the regulatory audit, it will be up to the directorate to carry out the final evaluation for different reasons when the new regulation is adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-24.ana.ud2089e833	I thank the Council of State for the answer. When is it true that pheasant has occurred in Norwegian nature since the 1870s, and partridges were first described in Norway in 1733, according to the reference work of ‘Jeeren’. My question to the Council of State is: Does the Council of State know at all about some cases where diseases from these farmed and legally endangered species have been transmitted?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-24.ana.ud2089e842	I must admit that I am personally not aware of cases of disease spread, but I think it is important to stress that it is the Directorate for Nature Management that has been authorised to determine the regulation, and that the Directorate is now in the middle of a consultation session. When the consultation round is over 5 July, the final regulation shall be laid down. I am absolutely sure that the directorate will let all input from different hearing bodies have an impact on the conclusions that the directorate will then draw.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-24.ana.ud2089e847	That is what we really have to hope for, because the 1993 revision of the Game Act made it clear to the relevant Grand Committee that the breeding of game could lead to important industrial development in the districts, and asked for this to be done in the preparation of regulations. This relationship is at least as topical today as it was 12 to 13 years ago, and I would encourage the Minister for the Environment to also bring the agricultural assessments into this work and ensure that the economic conditions for agriculture related to these activities are taken into account.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-24.ana.ud2089e852	All the different aspects of a case will be highlighted when final decisions are taken. I would also like to stress that it is important to continuously gain new knowledge about an area, and one of the new areas in which we have seen it as necessary to have an increased focus, is precisely the precautionary principle in terms of nature management and game launching. There's a perspective that might be a little different today than a few years ago, and where it's absolutely necessary that we take extra responsibility to be sure that our management results in good environmental considerations.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-24.ana.ud2089e863	This question, from the representative Per Roar Bredvold to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade, has been transferred to the Minister for Finance who is directing him.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-24.ana.ud2089e866	I want to ask the Minister of Finance the following questions: ‘Hedmark is highly dependent on truck industry in order for society to function and people to live and work in the districts, but an ever-increasing price of fuel, taxes and competition from Eastern Europe means that truck industry is struggling. What will the Council of State contribute to enabling this industry to have a framework of living conditions and thus to provide the services on which the districts are dependent?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-24.ana.ud2089e875	I want to start by saying that the industry's framework conditions are affected by a number of conditions. The charges, which are my responsibility, are of course a central element, but in addition to them, the general level of the oil price and not least the level of wages in Norway will have an impact on the transport industry, to which Mr Bredvold specifically refers in his question. It may be particularly true when it comes to wage levels that these East European competitors of Norwegian truck industries have different rules. I want to concentrate my response on the most relevant charges for the vehicles picked up by the representative. The fees specifically applicable to this industry shall take account of a number of considerations. Firstly, the annual weight tax payable on all vehicles above 7,5 tonnes. This charge is intended to offset the costs incurred by the use and wear on the road network to society. The fee is environmentally differentiated on the basis of emissions requirements under the EURO classification. The car diesel tax is differentiated according to the sulphur content. Several other European countries also have a charge of the same size as the Norwegian one. Autodiesel is also subject to a CO2 tax to praise the greenhouse gas emissions CO2. The framework conditions of the transport industry have been assessed several times in relation to these charges and the purposes for which they are due. For example, in the revised national budget in 2000, there were: evidence that a main justification for the fuel charges is that users of vehicles are to be charged the costs they incur to society. External costs are disadvantages that each individual imposes on others, but which one does not have the economic motive to take account of. Having regard to Report No, 464/1999 by the Transport Economic Institute, it was pointed out that the external costs of freight were marked higher than the charges paid and that the under-coverage increases by the weight of the vehicle. This was also the case for driving in scattered areas, although of course there are large local differences. Having regard to an ECON 2003 report, the revised national budget 2005 referred to the fact that the average external costs of road freight transport by diesel vehicle are not covered by the taxes on motor diesel. The government is now working on a review of car charges, and we are aiming to propose a conversion into the 2007 budget. The charges that are central to the truck industry will be included in this assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-24.ana.ud2089e898	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which was probably not a promise of better times for the truck industry, at least not as I assess the answer. Hedmark may be the country's country's most dependent on a functioning truck industry. Without the possibility of sea or air transport, only the alternative is the railway and road, and with a very scattered settlement it goes without saying that the truck forms the major part of the transport. In particular, this applies to the transport of timber and, of course, agricultural-related products. Otherwise, everyone in the state who lives by transporting goods and who produces goods is dependent on the truck. Therefore, we are so dependent on the conditions under which those who drive a truck have a decent salary in relation to investment and working time. Does the Council of State consider that some states are highly dependent on the acceptability of this industry’s framework? This is, of course, about good rural policy with and for living people.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-24.ana.ud2089e907	I fully agree with the representative of Bredvold that road freight transport has a slightly different meaning in different states. The alternatives, on which the representative is involved, may also vary considerably in relation to the location of the infrastructure, whether they are rail options or air or water transport. What is important for me to stress is that there are several reasons to take into account when we look at the framework conditions to which the truck industry or the transport sector is at all. Because it also has a significant impact on the nature of emissions coming from this industry, as well as traffic itself – if we ignore emissions – there are several considerations to be considered against each other. But we are now going to have a complete review of the car charges, where, of course, the regional policy assessments of the proposals we are making will also come to light. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-24.ana.ud2089e914	I thank the Council once again for an answer. It is clear that with today’s taxes, and with the poor profitability, we have a relatively old truck park in Norway. It was Eastern Europe that had the worst park before, but they now have much newer and better cars than us. If we can't renew our car fleet, we can't get cars that use less fuel, which are more efficient, i.e. with greater capacity, better working environment, etc., etc. These include: What this is all about. In Hedmark, the lorry industry is the industry where there is the second largest demand for more workers. There are 100 people who want to drive a truck. There is only one profession that you want more, and that's the timber industry, with 150. But it is uncertain to start in the truck industry, and therefore not so many want to start in it, unfortunately. With a notice of 15 kroner for fuel, for example, it is clear that then you are skeptical, and I do not overlook the fact that we will have such an action as we had six years ago, when the truck industry said that it is enough. And that the Council of States must take over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-24.ana.ud2089e923	The point the representative of Bredvold has, also regarding the renewal of trucks within the industry, are moments that I am going to include in the evaluation of the total car charges. But I just want to repeat that the balance in relation to the charges and framework conditions here has to be based on several considerations.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-24.ana.ud2089e932	This question, from the representative Torbjørn Hansen to the Minister for Food and Trade, will be raised by the representative Børge Brende.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-24.ana.ud2089e935	The question is addressed to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade: ‘The Minister of Economic Affairs has promised a more active industrial policy in the event of difficult industrial change in Norway. The Bjälvfossen in Hardanger is facing possible closure and loss of over 100 jobs. What initiatives will the Council of State take towards the enterprise, and when has the Council of State decided to visit Ålvik and Bjälvfossen to take a closer look at the issues and explain the Government’s plans?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-24.ana.ud2089e944	The Government will pursue an active industrial policy based on the Soria Moria Declaration. We are already doing this well. A stable krone price is important for the export-oriented industry, but the strengthening of the krone price that we have witnessed recently poses challenges for this part of business. It is therefore important that the Government continues to contribute to low interest rates and a stable exchange rate through sound budgetary policies. The contracts of the power-intensive industry under government terms are mainly due to expire until 2011. In recent years, the market price of power in Norway has been at a higher level than in the past, but still lower than on the continent. This is a challenge for the power-intensive industry that competes in a global market. The Soria Moria Declaration states that the Government will meet the power challenge. We are in the process of doing this. The Ministry of Oil and Energy shall chair an inter-ministerial working group to examine the possibilities for finding schemes for this industry within the framework of the EEA Agreement. This is an extensive work in which, among other things: developments in the EU must be closely monitored. Therefore it is necessary to spend some time on this work. It is not possible today to issue guarantees as to when any arrangements will fall into place. However, I hope it will be possible to arrive at a good solution by the end of this year. I am aware that the activities of Elkem Bjälvfossen are under assessment and that during the summer or early autumn 2006 the Board will take a decision that may have significant manpower implications. Per. today this decision has not been taken. Of course, I will follow closely the further development of Bjälvfossen in Ålvik. I would like to stress that the Government is working purposefully and systematically both to ensure competitive framework conditions for the power-intensive industry in the future and to increase domestic production of power. Therefore, it is my call to Elkem Bjälvfossen that they are now awaiting any decisions on manning reductions until we have been given the necessary clarifications in the work on the future framework conditions for the power-intensive industry. I can also inform you that State Secretary Anita Useth of the Ministry of Oil and Energy will visit Ålvik on Monday next week to address the challenges of Elkem Bjälvfossen.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-24.ana.ud2089e963	At first I have to say that I think there are many people at the Bjälvfossen who will be very disappointed if the answer to the Minister of Industry is perceived so that he will not come there and take a closer look at this. So I'd like the Minister of Industry to confirm that he wants to go to this community to discuss what's in the Council of State toolbox. If that's how the government doesn't have any more tools to set up with, I think a lot of people will notice it. Then I understand that when he was visiting Telemark the last day, he was unwilling to be shown in front of a toolbox. We see that things have not gone in the right direction. The crown course is on its way up. The councils are worried. What will the government do to bring down the crown price? We also see that the current price is now much higher than before. It has risen sharply in the last six months. What will the Council of State do with this? That is so far no concrete answer. And creating an industrial power regime, which was said to be very easy in the election campaign, now takes so much time that many jobs are lost.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-24.ana.ud2089e972	Let me first say that we have just left behind four years with a Right-dominated government. This was a period of stagnant and deafening inaction in securing competitive conditions for the power-intensive industry. Former oil and energy minister Thorhild Widvey, the representative of the Brende party trap, put an end to the work of establishing a new industrial power regime. This failure is an important part of the basis for uncertainty such as: the employees of Elkem Bjälvfossen now experience. In the Question Time, representatives are asking questions to the Government, but it is tempting to ask the representative Burnde whether he was satisfied with the efforts of his own government during the period. That is what has formed the basis for the uncertainty we have today in many ways, in terms of both price of power and supply of power.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-24.ana.ud2089e979	With all due respect, I understand that Minister of Industry Odd Eriksen needs to ask questions to the opposition, with as much unanswered answers as he himself has to the opposition. I would like to answer the question put to me by the Council of State Eriksen, provided that the Council of State then also answers the questions I ask as a representative. Yes, I was pleased with the efforts of the government that I was in, doing to the business community. We've never seen so many new businesses become established in a year. We also saw that industrial production took on board. But then to the questions: will the Minister of Industry, when they really want it in Bjälvfossen, go and visit them to sit down and discuss the future of 100 jobs? I want the Minister of Industry to answer this, and to go there in a short time. When does the industrial power regime get in place? So it was said in the election campaign was the easiest thing, but now it seems to be very, very complicated – something we also warned against. As I said, I hope that the Council of State will answer these two questions and not just ask questions to the opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-24.ana.ud2089e988	In fact, the previous government did not warn against the work of the industrial power regime. They dropped out of the work on the industrial power regime. We have taken up work on the industrial power regime. We work systematically to get this in place under the EEA Agreement. At the same time, we are now actively working to facilitate increased power generation in the country, which is also essential for maintaining production in the power-intensive industry. In the time I have been Minister of Industry, I have visited a number of communities with a vulnerable business. I mention Meråker as one example, which I visited quickly, but as the former Minister of Industry did not see the time to visit despite repeated invitations. If I get an invitation from Bjälvfossen, I will of course visit Bjälvfossen within the time frame I have. But I repeat that the next Monday, the State Secretary of the Ministry of Oil and Energy will visit Bjälvfossen.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-24.ana.ud2089e997	So we go to question 15.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-24.ana.ud2089e1004	This question, from the representative of Gunn Berit Gjerde to the Minister for Fisheries and Coastal Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Food and Trade on behalf of the Minister for Fisheries and Coastal Affairs.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-24.ana.ud2089e1007	‘The fishing boatmasters have major problems recruiting qualified crews, especially co-pilots and engineers. This is due both to the high level of activity in the offshore industry and to the distortion of competition in the net pay system. Fishing boat fleets are waiting for additional problems and are continuing to recruit foreign crews, which will be unfortunate for the fishing industry as an important contributor to coastal settlement. What will the Council of State do with the difficult recruitment situation in which the fishing boat industry is now coming?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-24.ana.ud2089e1014	The Reimbursement Scheme for Seafarers was introduced as a temporary scheme in 1993. A more comprehensive reimbursement scheme was established in 1994. Various changes have been made over the years. The net pay system for offshore vessels in NOR was introduced with effect from 1 July 2003. The purpose of subsidy schemes for employment of Norwegian seafarers is to facilitate maritime activities and prevent the deflagration of jobs and activities. The grant shall ensure Norwegian maritime competence and recruitment of Norwegian seafarers and shall also contribute to the granting to Norwegian shipping companies of competitive framework conditions in relation to the conditions in other countries. There has been broad political agreement on the arrangements among changing governments and magnification. The arrangements do not apply to fishing vessels. There is no doubt that the fishing fleet is an important part of Norway’s maritime competence, and that the fishing fleet competes with other crew vessels, not least with regard to competence. However, a number of issues differ for the fishing fleet and for shipping. This applies both in relation to national and international framework conditions. The Norwegian fishing fleet has been granted access to fishing on Norwegian national resources and thus has a protected nutritional basis. Shipping operates in an open, global market with high international competition. Thus, the framework conditions are initially very different. International legislation, in the same way as the legislation in Norway, suggests that these are separate industries. The EU guidelines on State aid are specific with regard to aid to the shipbuilding and shipbuilding industry. It is therefore necessary to assess the framework conditions and support for the fishing industry on a different basis than the framework conditions and support for the other industries. In particular, account must be taken of the fact that aid for fisheries may lead to compensatory levies on fish products. It is therefore in particular the general State aid rules that will be the basis for comparison of regulatory developments in this area in relation to the EU. On the other hand, there is a large proportion of the labour force on which the fishing fleet and other shipping compete. I can see that. I want to focus on recruiting and developing young people for the industry. I have also registered the wish to assess the size of the fishing deduction in the light of the competitive situation. I will work for a sustainable and profitable fishing industry, which will be competitive and not least attractive both now and in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-24.ana.ud2089e1031	I hear now that it is said that there is a great difference between a fishing boat and another vessel competing with the rest of the world. That's right. The fishing boat boat boat has a protected nutrient base. Nevertheless, we are in the situation that the fishing boat owners now have to recruit foreign fishermen. First of all, we don't get the knowledge that one of the fishing boats depends on doing a good fishing and having a safe fishing for the crew. And secondly, people are not going to live in houses along our coast. Fishing industry, alongside agriculture, is one of the most important industries we have to maintain the busiest in our rural areas. I also hear that there is talk of recruiting young people to the industry, and that you have an honest willingness to do something about it. Is there any concrete plan to get a defrosting that allows the fishing boat owners who are now standing without a crew to get a crew?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-24.ana.ud2089e1038	It is important not to over-dramatise the situation in the fishing industry. It is probably not the case that the fishing fleet is at berth because you do not have crew on board the boats. However, a number of industries are now knocking on the door to get under the current net pay system. What is the big challenge is the general availability of labour in the market. Low unemployment rates in the market – by April the unemployment rate was 2.8 pst. – contributes to the pressure of this industry as regards the availability of skilled labour. Therefore, one of the main areas of activity of this government is to increase the availability of skilled labour to the business community. We are now working on a big message that will be submitted for the autumn, where increased labour supply will be in focus.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-24.ana.ud2089e1047	It is warned against overdramatizing, and said that there are no boats at berth. It probably doesn't do it today. But I would like to remind you that 80 offshore vessels are either under construction or planned to be built. When they come into the market, there will be a sub-capacity of novices and engineers. I don't think the Minister of Industry can ignore that either. Now I understand that it is being worked with plans to increase the capacity of those who can work on board fishing boats. Would it be possible for those who run guided schools and engineer schools to have more places to study and train these places?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-24.ana.ud2089e1054	When I now also say that we should not exaggerate, we should nevertheless assume that the industry is facing significant challenges, and that it must be worked purposefully to ensure the recruitment of this fleet. The government has also said that this is an industry that needs to be invested in, and that here we have a special advantage for just succeeding. During the autumn, the government will present a key message addressing labour, well-being and inclusion precisely with a view to increasing access to labour. We know that there are a number of people in Norwegian society who are out of work, but who are in a so-called pre-employment age, and it is important to give them access to skills that enable them to enter industries where there is a need for them.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-24.ana.ud2089e1063	So we go back to question 6.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-24.ana.ud2089e1070	First, I would like to be allowed to make a mistake. It says in the question that it is signed who has shown the car seven times. That's not right. It is a car dealer who had to show the car seven times at the traffic station. I allow myself to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions – in the correct version: ‘A car dealer had to show the car seven times at the traffic station. This is just one example in addition to the series of other suggestions that testify to the fact that traffic stations and the State Road Service are dealing with a regulatory and regulatory framework that is impossible to understand. Many people who want to register cars experience major problems in getting this done in a simple and effective way. If this is due to rigid and unclear legislation, is the State Council satisfied with the situation and what will be done to simplify and streamline the procedures at the traffic station?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-24.ana.ud2089e1081	The Code for the Approval and Registration of Driving Licences is complicated, especially due to international harmonisation and international bindings. The authorisation shall ensure that the requirements for road safety and the environment are met, but also that proper charges are established. Of course, the state's road authority wants to meet its customer's needs as far as it can be done within the scope of security, equal management and traceability in the administration. Continuous efforts are being made to streamline and simplify the procedures for the curative approvals and registrations. As an example of this, I mention that the car dealers can now themselves register type-approved cars, without control at the traffic station. They may also register all vehicles approved in advance and carry out re-registrations. Most vehicles to be registered in Norway have a European type-approval. This means that they are initially also approved for registration in Norway, and that a possible demonstration of verification is only to establish identity and to establish correct technical data as a basis for the correct classification of fees. For used imported vehicles, and for individual vehicles imported without European type-approval, the need for control may be more extensive. However, it is only in special cases that a running device must be shown multiple times in order to be approved. Most people will be approved by a single display of control. The fact that the negotiator's running has been shown seven times must be said to be an entirely abnormal case. No more knowledge of the specific case, of course, I cannot comment on it in any concrete way. The Road Service of the State assesses additional specialisation of the approval service for vehicles requiring specific competence and/or low volume. This applies to conversions, constructions, hobby projects, etc., which in many cases are very complex and thus also require longer time to deal with them. The state road system has recently had capacity problems in some places. I am informed that the State Road Service has taken action to remedy this. The government has further proposed a further five million. kr in the revised national budget for extended opening time in 2007 to reduce waiting time.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-24.ana.ud2089e1096	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I just want to give an example of what this is like: the Road Directorate has given a clear message to the traffic stations that they are going to treat the same cars in the same way. Then it is quite interesting to see that when you register a gas car at two different traffic stations, it keeps submitting one form at one traffic station, while at another traffic station only a few miles away you have to submit a whole bunch of forms for the approval of the exact same car type. It seems strange that you actually depend on how the individual car surveillance and the individual traffic station handle things. Does the Council of State see that these are conditions that should be cleaned up, so that there will be equality throughout the country when dealing with the legislation that exists for these types of cars?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-24.ana.ud2089e1105	It has in recent times, among other things. be highly focused on equal handling and quality in connection with the approval of running gear. Of course, users should expect them to be treated equally, regardless of where they turn. What's taken up here as examples, I hope of course I'm not expanded. However, I will take this matter with me to the Road Directorate and ask them to be safe – by sending a clear signal to the traffic stations, but also, of course, by further focus on training – that a person should have a similar practice at all traffic stations. We are also in the process of developing a new system called Au2sys. Within it there is a goal to get as much of the legislation as possible into one system, so that one can get a computer system that will make it easier to ensure non-discrimination, which we all of course want.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-24.ana.ud2089e1114	I also thank you for this answer, and I look forward to something happening in this area, hopefully. Many people now also feel that the defect is going out because you have to wait for the road station and do not get an hour. Will the Council of State see what she can do to help also in that situation, and make sure that it does not continue to be so? In addition, the Council of State is probably also aware that a system is now in place at the traffic stations and at the supervision of the car, which is such that when you have to check a car, an inspector must check that the inspector has checked the car correctly. This is an entirely unsustainable situation in relation to the confidence of the employees who are set to do this job. What will the Council of State do to correct this pointless scheme, where another supervisor is controlled, that it has actually done the job correctly? It is clear that there is a regulatory problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-24.ana.ud2089e1123	Under the previous government, the State Road Service implemented changes to adapt the structure to new cost frameworks and also to adapt the introduction of new technologies. It has been shown that users don't use the Internet to the extent that they thought they might change them. It also has other elements. This has led to longer queues and waiting times that are totally unacceptable, especially in the central eastern region. I have asked the Directorate of Road to instruct the regions to take immediate action to improve service provision and reduce waiting times at traffic stations. In concrete terms, non-hourly checks should be made more common – so-called drop-in – and more accessible, as well as increasing flexibility and efficiency in order to carry out simple tasks where the volume is large. It may be in connection with the simple tasks that people experience having to wait a long time. With this background, we gave a 5 million. kr in the revised national budget, so that we can increase the scope of this work.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-24.ana.ud2089e1134	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘International experience suggests that simple and transparent ticketing and tariff systems lead to increased use of public transport. It helps make travelling easier for the audience, it's time-saving and public friendly. The Bondevik II administration took a lot of time to implement so-called electronic ticketing. How will the new government follow up the important work?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-24.ana.ud2089e1143	Simple and transparent ticketing systems are important to make people choose to travel collectively. Good work has been done both by the previous government and by many county councils to come up with a system to give passengers a seamless offer when travelling across borders — often borders. With effect from 1 April 2006, we have adopted a standard interface in new electronic ticketing systems. The standard ensures that county municipalities and companies can cooperate on tickets and tariffs. The municipalities and companies are now required to use electronic ticketing systems. The new standard makes this possible, and in the conversations I have with the county councils, I want to encourage an intensification of this work. I know that there is a very good crowd in many municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-24.ana.ud2089e1152	I thank the Council of State for the answer. Cash payment delays daily public transport in people's busy everyday lives. I am a collective user myself and witness to it every day. Large bills are to be exchanged, and passengers are to be in line, which seems to be both old-fashioned and heavy-duty in our electronic world. In Oslo and Akershus, this is a very big problem. It's not going to work. Can the Council of State do anything to help Oslo and Akershus do this?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-24.ana.ud2089e1161	We have a division of labour which means that responsibility for public transport has been added to the counties. I would be careful to intervene in the mandate of the county councils to develop good systems in this area. We have regular meetings with the county councils to discuss both public transport and other important issues. In such a meeting, I would like to discuss this issue too, but instructing Oslo and Akershus to develop a system that I would be taking a step too far to intervene in an area of responsibility that they explicitly have.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-24.ana.ud2089e1168	I thank you again for the answer. Combined public transport, SKØ, was established in January 2004. This is a very important body for addressing the collective challenges in the Eastern region and will also be involved in electronic ticketing. My first follow-up question is: does the Minister for Transport agree with that? And the second is, how active she will be in this important body for, among other things. Oslo and Akershus?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-24.ana.ud2089e1177	We have just had a meeting in SKØ that was led by my State Secretary, because I was out traveling. It was meant that I would rent the meeting, but I had to change that plan. At that meeting, it appeared that you might need to discuss how this work should be done. One certainly had good intentions when starting this body, but it may not have been properly processed in relation to the content of the meeting. So what we're going to do now is we're going to sit down and think about how we're going to use this body, so that it's really going to be an agency for action and not just a body where we're kind of discussing problem settings, and maybe it's not going to be that much longer. The concrete results so far when it comes to SKØ may not be as good as you had hoped when you started this body, but I see that there is an important meeting place. I also see that it is important that we get specific matters and concrete actions out of the meetings that are coming, and I will follow them up in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-24.ana.ud2089e1190	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Knowledge: ‘The Legislature has once again underlined the importance of physical activity in schools to combat obesity and other health problems caused by inactivity. The project Physical activity and meals in school from 2004 have arranged for more daily physical activity in school, and the Knowledge promise opens up a more conscious focus on physical activity even outside the physical exercise profession. What will the Council of State do to ensure that this important work is followed up at each school?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-24.ana.ud2089e1199	Physical activity is a prerequisite for good learning and well-being, and also counteracts obesity and other health problems, as Gundersen's representative says. Research shows that increased focus on physical activity at school is also likely to lead to more physical activity during leisure time. This effect seems to be greatest for students from lower social layers. Physical activity in school can thus also have a social smoothing effect. The research report by NOVA of Mjaavatn and Skisland in 2004 also states that the mental health of the student may be improved by more physical activity. In the promise of knowledge, introduced from the harvest, physical exercise is a priority subject. It is only Norwegian and math that have several hours in the subject and hour distribution. The new curriculum of the knowledge lift in body training, with clear objectives of competence, makes clear demands on the school about the student's benefits from the training. The curricula will thus ensure that physical activity is strengthened at each school and will improve the quality of the physical exercise. The Ministry’s strategy ‘Development Competence – Strategy for the Development of Competence in Initial Training 2005-2008’ employs 375 million. in 2006 for development of competences in priority areas. Physical activity is one of the areas of activity of the strategy. The Directorate of Education has established a network for the development of competences in physical activity coordinated by the College of Telemark and the Norwegian School of Sports. They have been given the task of developing an offer of empowerment in this area. The offer shall be developed in cooperation with the field of practice and made available throughout the country from the autumn of 2006. The Network shall also cooperate with networks for other disciplines, focusing on how training in individual disciplines can be combined with physical activity, such as: in science and mathematics. It's important here to stress that physical activity in school is more than the hours spent in subject body training. The ‘Physical activity and meals in school’ project has been launched by the Ministry of Knowledge and the Ministry of Health and Welfare. Both have committed three million. SEK every three years, a total of 18 million. kr for the period 2004-2006. For the period 2004–2005, 200 primary schools participated in all counties. In 2005-2006, approximately 300 primary and 18 secondary schools. The aim of the project is to stimulate as many schools as possible to facilitate increased physical activity and meals in school according to local needs, and to identify and disseminate information on some projects that have shown good results. For the 2006–07 school year, more attention will be paid to those schools that stand out as model schools, as well as to the dissemination of good models of inspiration and follow-up for all schools. Furthermore, the Education Directorate has developed a strategy for the learning environment in the initial training for 2005–08. The strategy shall contribute to an overall approach that ensures all aspects of the learning environment of students. One area of action includes, inter alia: physical activity. Annual action plans shall be drawn up in each area of action. Physical activity is a prerequisite for the development of motor skills and shall be adapted to all school students every day of the week. In the Soria Moria Declaration, the Government adds to a further increase in the number of hours in primary school where strengthening of Norwegian, mathematics and English, teaching aids and physical activity every day is a main priority. This would be a further strengthening of physical activity at the stage of childhood in addition to the measures already in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-24.ana.ud2089e1218	I thank you for the answer, and I understand that you have focused on the area. I'm asking about this because it's going to be an area that is extremely important to keep in focus, and it might be a question that should be addressed to several ministers. Children and young people no longer play the physical form that you were used to. I have some experience of both coaching and leadership in sports, and there is a huge spread of children and young people today compared to the past. The risk of losing the group that is already defined as inactive, up to 15-20 pst. by young people. In fact, there are so many, so it's dramatic. This is true of general public diseases, such as poor mental health, cardiovascular diseases, diabetes and the whole spectrum. The most important thing when a preventer is maybe to practice good physical activities in school and teach people to be happy in activity. I want to ask the Minister of Knowledge if he has thoughts about new, alternative models, for example. cooperation with the voluntary sector. Here I think you need quite a lot of innovation to get to the message.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-24.ana.ud2089e1227	I agree with the approach taken by the representative Gundersen, and as my comprehensive response showed, there are many different projects going on in school. I am positive that schools locally – e.g. together with local teams and associations — find ways to act more at school. There's nothing to it if a school wants it. But the most important thing is that you take care that you have many occasions in different subjects also for physical activity. I've specifically mentioned mathematics and natural sciences, but there may also be other subjects that facilitate not being in the classroom, but are out there and have a practical approach to the subject. This will also make the subjects more exciting and motivate more learning. So it's a little bit up to the local creativity in school, in the classroom and at the school management to facilitate this. But, as I also said in my main response, there are many different projects initiated by the state by various actors that also facilitate this. More physical activity in school is positive.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-24.ana.ud2089e1236	I registered in the first answer that there were many projects going on at the local schools, and it's very good to use creativity out there. I could imagine that at some point the Minister of Knowledge finds it right to come back and show us an overview of what creativity has brought out of possible ideas, and also how the response is out among the students. As I said in my first line, I think it's going to be a hugely important task to learn some people to enjoy physical activity and to keep a certain level of activity up. And that's not just the school's problem. It's actually a problem to find the right forms of interaction, so that you promote it in the best possible way.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-24.ana.ud2089e1243	I would like to say once again that of course I fully agree with the representative of Gundersen. The fact that children are active is important, both for learning, for avoiding obesity and for feeling more well-being yourself. Of course, this is the family's task in addition to the school's, but the school needs to facilitate this in school hours as well. The project I referred to, which we have in cooperation with the Ministry of Health and Welfare, and which has a framework of 18 million. until 2006, has only been active for 2005-2006 for a total of 300 primary schools and 18 secondary schools. Part of the point is physical activity in school and to facilitate it. This means that we have also been in contact with the Medical Association and other good forces who are concerned about this. And we're also dedicated to strengthening this. The Soria Moria statement is very clear that physical activity should be part of the expansion of school day.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-24.ana.ud2089e1255	I am delighted to present the following questions to the Minister of Knowledge: ‘Sociation of Soria Moria Declaration: ‘Research policy reflects society’s willingness to develop and harness new knowledge.’ Furthermore, it states that the Government will increase funding for basic research. In the 2006 budget, the Government removed up to 900 million. SEK for research in 2007 by reducing the Research Fund. In the revised budget, the Government takes 100 million. kr from basic research and long-term research in 2006. When shall the Government stand by its promises of the Soria Moria Declaration?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-24.ana.ud2089e1264	Let me first make it clear that this government has not reduced the Research Fund. On the contrary, we strengthened the Research Fund by DKK 14 billion from January 2006. This is over 500 million. kr in increased research funding in 2007. Neither is it true that the government is taking 100 million. kr from basic research in the revised budget. We have proposed that the Norwegian Research Council may redispatch up to 100 million. the return from the Research Fund in order to allow the State to contribute additional funds, which are provided for large grants for research. The gift-enhancing system works so that when companies or individuals give a gift for basic research, plus the state of 25 pst. of the amount of the gift. I think it is gratifying that private actors are now giving more to basic research. Then, of course, the state will contribute more money to this fissure layer. That is what we have done with the redeployment we are doing in the revised budget. So that means more funding for basic research. The 100 million. kr, which has been redispatched, still goes to basic research, while total basic research funds are increasing due to large gifts from private individuals. The re-disposal of fund returns may be made without consequences for the activity started. This is because the establishment of the centres for excellent research and the launch of some major research programmes has taken a little longer than foreseen, so that there has been a temporary under-use in relation to the appropriations in the State budget in recent years. It is these funds that are now being used for the gift-enhancing scheme. The government is committed to its ambitions in the Soria Moria Declaration. The appropriations for research and development were also increased in the 2006 budget by a total of DKK 1.3 billion. The Government will continue to work to strengthen research appropriations.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-24.ana.ud2089e1277	I want to thank you for the answer, but I'm a little surprised at that. This government removed DKK 25 billion from the Research Fund in relation to the Bondevik government's proposal. The $25 billion would be set at $900 million. This would have meant that the public had been able to meet its 1 pst target in GDP. What makes me even more surprised is that the Council of State says that the reason why these funds can be redeployed is that we have not started enough research. That's probably right, but it's also a little bit wrong, because these appropriations are 100 million. funds were allocated to specific projects. Does this mean that the Council of State can guarantee that the 100 million. Do you think that today's redeployed from the long-term basic research to strengthen the gift-enhancing scheme will be included in the 2007 budget, so that you do not see a real decline in the research budget for 2007?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-24.ana.ud2089e1284	Yes, I can guarantee that we will not have any decline in the research funds for next year. The representative is mistaken that the money proposed by the previous government to the Research Fund would have triggered funds in this year's budget. They had in that case triggered funds for next year's budget. This is a matter to which the Government will return in the ordinary budgetary process. It will be presented to Stortinget in an ordinary manner now until the autumn. Our government has high ambitions in research and higher education. I'm glad it's a total accumulation that has always underlined the importance of research. Our government follows up on what is the Government's overall objective in the Research Communication.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-24.ana.ud2089e1293	I think it's very clear from the question that it's the 2007 budget these 900 million. kr would have had an effect on, and not on, the current year. Of course, the Council of State is right in that, and it also appears in the question. This gift-enhancing system that the Council of State thinks is very good is very good. It is an important contribution to ensuring that individuals provide even more for long-term research. That is why I want the Council of State guarantee that the gift-enhancing scheme will also be prolonged in the budget coming to the harvest. I would also like a clarification of the answer when it comes to not reducing the research budget. We know that the Council of Knowledge is also responsible for kindergartens and is going to fight for funds to cover the Children's Hail Lift to save its party leader from departure. Does the Council of State see it for that reason as a difficult task to fight for more money for research? Because you have to have 100 million. kr more for research in the 2007 budget than in the year’s budget if the total research effort is not to be reduced in addition to the reduction currently foreseen by the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-24.ana.ud2089e1302	I agree with the representative that the gift-enhancing system is a good arrangement. It motivates businesses or rich people to give gifts to research. This means that the state participates in this fissure layer. This item was significantly under-budgeted. Nor was it so unnatural all the time there was an entirely new order that had been set of 50 million. Add kr. It turns out that especially the University of Bergen, through Mohn's generous gifts, has received considerable funds that we have to follow up on by the state. It has been possible through the redeployment of the Research Council, because there are unused funds in the Research Council – which, of course, will go to research projects when these projects are in progress – and these funds have been redeployed in a way that makes them account for being used in active research. This means that through this operation we get more active research, especially in medicine, which has been a priority area from Mohn, which has given great gifts to the University of Bergen. We will come back to the budget when we get to the ordinary budgetary process, but I can assure the representative that the gift-enhancing system will be continued, and that there will be more money for research next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-24.ana.ud2089e1315	I am delighted to ask the Minister for Employment and Inclusion the following questions: ‘The undersigned has received a number of enquiries from people around the country who experience an unprecedented length of proceedings in the social security system. Today's trial period is 8 months or more. Many have waited more than 9 months after they contacted us until the enquiry was answered, which is perceived as very unworthy. Some users are at risk of being referred to economic social assistance during the waiting period. What concrete action will the Council of State take against the social security system with a view to reducing the duration of proceedings?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-24.ana.ud2089e1324	The social security system dealt with nearly 4.6 million cases in 2005. The term of office shall be followed up on a continuous basis. Within most social welfare areas maximum time limits have been laid down. In most cases, the procedure takes place quickly, and faster than the maximum time taken to deal with it. The number of cases where the duration of treatment exceeds the maximum level has been halved since January 2004. While the total number of cases across the external border in January 2004 was 9,744, or 2,1 per million of all cases, the corresponding figure in January 2006 was 4,958 cases, corresponding to 1,1 per million of all cases. There is therefore no basis for claiming that the social security rate is generally characterised by unimportant lengths of proceedings. However, in some cases the maximum limits laid down may be exceeded. The reason for this may be that the issues here are complicated, and that it takes a long time to provide documentation. The documentation shall be obtained from different treatment providers, employers or from the user himself. The social security system has also placed considerable emphasis on ensuring that the use of instruments is adapted to the user’s situation. This may also be a reason why the treatment of individuals takes a long time. It is important that proper processing is carried out in the shortest possible time. The social security system is constantly working to speed up the process. Information to the public, training, development of new IT solutions and development of social security legislation will help to speed up the process and make it more effective. This work has produced good results. On 1 July 2006, a new seat for employment and well-being is hereby established. By 2010, a first-line service shall be established in all the municipalities of the country, where the state budget and the municipalities form part of an obliging contractual partnership to establish joint local employment and welfare offices. An important ambition in this work is that organisational coordination and efficiency improvements and new forms of work should result in better, more efficient and user-oriented management.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-24.ana.ud2089e1335	I thank you for your answer. It is true, as the Council of State is concerned, that many of the cases are moving quickly, and it is also correct in the statistics referred to by the Council of State in its reply, but there are still a good number of people who experience their proceedings as unworthy. I received an enquiry at the latest today from a person who had been informed by the social security office that it would take four months before his/her case could be dealt with. There have now been more than nine months without a response from the social security office. When the person calls down to the social security office, he is told that it takes the time it takes. At the same time, there is a principle that social security offices are trying to ensure that they are given priority without income. In many cases it does not. In what way will the Council of State follow up, so that they receive more rapid treatment without income, so that they do not face the unworthy situation of having to go on economic social assistance during the waiting period?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-24.ana.ud2089e1344	I think you're going to be humble compared to that of course that's how you treat 4.6 million cases in a year. I think it would be very wrong for me to stand in the Storting and say that I feel a hundred percent sure that all of the 4.6 million cases are dealt with as they should. This is a system that, of course, is based on everyone doing their best every day. That even in the social security system can happen human error, I have no doubt. I think it's very difficult to build a system that allows you to be sure that one in 4.6 million feels like you're not getting a good enough treatment. It's important for me to say that we're going to do what we can all the time, and not rest as long as there's someone who's dissatisfied. But when you try to draw a picture that this is a general situation, I have to distance myself from it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-24.ana.ud2089e1353	I thank you again for the answer. Let me stress that I'm not trying to draw an image of that this is a general situation. I am trying to address a problem that has been addressed by some people. I think it's starting to be a good deal of enquiries about this, but I haven't compiled any statistics on the percentage of requests I've received, based on the 4.6 million issues that are being dealt with, as the Council of State said. The Council of State also mentioned the need to establish a new labour and welfare management system from 2010, NAV, and that it is starting to be put in place as early as this year. The Council of State also stated in its reply that the Government will do everything it can to prevent anyone from experiencing a long trial period and an unworthy meeting with the public. Then my question becomes, how does the government want to do it? How will NAV be prepared to be better equipped to meet such requests than is the case in today’s organization?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-24.ana.ud2089e1364	As I said in my answer, I think we're on the right track when we've halved the number of things in a year, things that have been waiting for longer than the limits that are, would suggest. The development is going in the right direction. It's important to have as a starting point. I would like to say that what is the purpose of NAV is more at work, less at benefit. It is also very important for me to stress that there is a user-oriented service, with the user in the center. I know that NAV is now putting a lot of emphasis on organizing their premises in such a way that they should just be user-oriented, user-friendly. Fewer administrative procedures shall be local, more of the user-oriented follow-up local. I experience an organisation in NAV that is very focused on what I think Eriksson and I have as common goals, namely that as much as possible should get the best possible response in the shortest possible time.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-24.ana.ud2089e1377	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Justice: ‘In North Light on 28 April it appears that the three-year-old module prison in Tromsø has suffered major leakage injuries. The modules were intended as relief during upgrading and extension of Tromsø prison, but the rescue queue allows the modules to remain in use. Regional Director Asbjørn Roald states to Nordlys that ‘It is totally unthinkable that the module prison can be used for another winter season without extensive remedial work being carried out’. What will the Council of State do to ensure that the 14 module cells can continue to be used in the process of cooling?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-24.ana.ud2089e1386	When the module prison was set up in 2003, it was for temporary operations in the construction phase in connection with rehabilitation and new buildings at Tromsø prison. The module building was intended to last for one year and would ensure a minimum reduction in the number of prison sites while the rehabilitation work was under way. However, the housing queues have led to the construction still in use. The foundation work did not aim for the building to stand for several years. Nor was any separate roof construction set up over the containers due to the originally planned short operation. The building, as the representative of Aspaker correctly points out, has suffered major leakage damage. It is therefore necessary to introduce maintenance measures now. When the leak damage was cleared, State Building was engaged to look at the extent and to map them. A modular prison construction report was drawn up, in which they concluded that the measures to be taken to ensure that the prison is in a proper state of detention. Total estimate for necessary rehabilitation is about 1 million. kr. The permission to enter the module prison in 2003 was granted by the municipality of Tromsø for a limited period of time. It runs out at the turn of the year. The condition for the temporary contract of use with the municipality of Tromsø was that this should be a temporary measure. The Ministry of Justice aims to continue the use of the module building as long as it is a propellant queue. One aims to implement the necessary maintenance and to send an application to the municipality of Tromsø to extend the use of the building.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-24.ana.ud2089e1397	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. In a situation where each cell counts, especially in the situation in which it is in the case of custody, it is very important that these 14 enclosed spaces can still be used. I'm familiar with the construction just having to stand for a year. It has now lived considerably longer than that, and therefore it is important to get it repaired. So I just have to note that the Council here follows up in a satisfactory way, and I think that is very good.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-24.ana.ud2089e1406	Does the Council of State want the word?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-24.ana.ud2089e1409	I just want to thank Mr Aspaker for his comments. At the same time, I would like to point out the commitment just shown by the representative Aspaker to the need for places in the north. It makes it imperative for us to maintain the capacity of Tromsø.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-24.ana.ud2089e1416	Question 12 has already been answered.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-24.ana.ud2089e1423	‘The regional health contact forums for drug users have developed common guidelines on the admission to drug treatment in healthcare establishments. These guidelines state that patients with serious drug problems who are not expected to benefit from treatment should receive municipal care rather than specialised treatment. Does the Council of State think this is in line with the aims of the drug reform and the goal of giving everyone who wants it an opportunity for a restless life?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-24.ana.ud2089e1430	As a result of the drug reform, regional health businesses were given responsibility for multidisciplinary specialised treatment for drug abuse as of 1 January 2004. This gave drug-dependent patient status in line with other specialist healthcare patient groups, and it was also absolutely necessary. As of 1 September the same year, some general changes were made to the Patient Rights Act. Firstly, there shall be a right to assessment within 30 working days and, if entitlement to the necessary health care is granted, an individual time limit shall be provided for when to start treatment at the latest. These changes to the Patient Rights Act also included drug addicts. An important objective of the drug reform was to link the responsibility for the treatment of drug addicts with the responsibility of the other specialist healthcare services. The goal was, among other things, to improve interaction between the drug field and other specialist health services. Experience so far shows that there are still considerable differences between health regions and within health regions as to how patients’ rights are practised. Figures show that the proportion of drug addicts entitled to the necessary health care varies from less than 50 pst. and up to 90 pst. between the five health regions. I would like to mention, for the record, that such differences are a general problem for all kinds of specialist health services, not just for drug addicts. This is not good enough! Therefore, this year’s ordering document to the regional health establishments — and the national health plan which was sent out at yesterday’s consultation — called for action to be taken to ensure a more consistent allocation of the right to necessary health care. It is positive that regional health businesses have merged to achieve this. I have recorded that regional health companies in their work in this field have created reactions and debates, which include: reflected in a headline in the newspaper today. The Ministry of Health and Health has recently met with regional health businesses, where we have been briefed on the process that has been involved in the development of these guidelines. In this respect, the Ministry has pointed out the importance of making the assessments in a legally correct manner in relation to patient rights and the priority regulation, precisely in order to meet each individual needs for services. I assume that this is also a practice for the individual drug addict who is referred to the specialist healthcare service. Drug addicts, like all other patients, should be able to assess their need for health care and should receive the specialist health services they need and are entitled to. It is the responsibility of the specialist healthcare service to provide equivalent healthcare to this patient group as well. Of course, we should not have a system that leads to those who have the greatest need for treatment not getting help. This would be contrary to what this government wants to achieve. The noise field is a high priority area. As you know, in this year's order document, I have asked that the percentage growth in resource use in our hospitals be greater in the case of drugs and psychiatry, than in the case of somatics. Finally, I would like to mention that the Government will present a separate action plan for the drugs field, in order to further strengthen its efforts in this important area.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-24.ana.ud2089e1447	I thank you for your answer. It is good to hear that we agree on the common objectives in the field of drug care. In the case of guidelines, it is called inter alia: that patients with severe addiction problems who have multiple treatment attempts behind them without significant change should receive care rather than specialised treatment. This means that heavily charged drug users should not be given the opportunity to become drug free because they failed with previous treatment attempts. That, I think, is a moralization towards sick people who do not belong in a modern health service. I think it is alarming that the healthcare system provides guidelines based on a human view that devalues the individual's ability to succeed in changing his or her life. In my opinion, everyone who wants it should, of course, have an opportunity to become drug free. Everyone deserves a new chance. We have a lot of examples that it's useful. There has been written an entire book about people who have managed to get out of heavy drug addiction. Does the Minister of Health agree that drug addicts must be offered treatment in the specialist healthcare service, regardless of whether they have successfully tried treatment in the past?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-24.ana.ud2089e1458	The answer to that is yes. Of course, everyone who has problems with drugs, and needs help, whether it's of specialist health care or in the municipalities, depending on what it needs, is going to get the help they're entitled to, in line with all the other patients. Then I'm worried about the great variation that is – and that has been there for a while – between regional health companies. Therefore, I am positive that it is now working to reduce the differences between health businesses, so that there is more equivalent treatment, and that treatment does not depend on where you live. So it's not right for these guidelines to impose that you have to be drug free, for example. It could be that you're not going to be able to be. Individual assessments shall then be made on the basis of which treatment to receive.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-24.ana.ud2089e1467	In fact, the guidelines say that the heaviest addicts need to qualify through a care facility in the municipality to receive specialist treatment. For a long time, there has been a political agreement that the waiting time for specialist healthcare assistance should be reduced. The average waiting time for treatment is also significantly reduced following the hospital reform. However, the guidelines for drug treatment state that in many chronic conditions without serious co-morbidity, a ‘wait time’ for institutional treatment could be useful. While health services are working to provide rapid help to patients with somatic disorders, drug addicts and their families will be kept on their piercing legs. This is probably an example of serious discrimination against addicted patients. The recommendation for waiting time is also serious given that drug addicts are at high risk of taking overdoses, which could lead to serious health problems. Does the Council of State consider it useful that addicts risk both life and health pending treatment?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-24.ana.ud2089e1476	No, of course I don't mean that. Of course, this Minister of Health and this government believes that everyone who needs it will get help. We have a law, which is also passed by the Storting, which says something about the rights of patients, whether because they are drug addicts, or because they need help in health care for other reasons. So now health care businesses are trying to get more equal treatment. That's good. It is also the case that the guidelines referred to here are to be evaluated after one year, so that adjustments can be made if necessary. But it has to be clear: everyone has to get the help and treatment they need, whether it's in hospitals or in the municipalities. There should be individual assessments, and there is nothing in this that warrants, as some claim, that one, for example. must be free of alcohol in order to receive treatment. Individual assessments must be carried out here. Of course, it's not like we're in charge of a policy where you shouldn't take into account that people are going to get the help they need. Everybody get it, dot!
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-24.ana.ud2089e1487	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘In order to save money, some municipalities have decided to convert nursing homes into nursing homes. A loophole in the law makes this possible. Municipalities do not pay for medicines and aids. The residents have to pay for it themselves and then get the money refunded from the Rikstrygdeverket. The municipality saves money, but transfers the expenses to the state, and the hospital residents get a different health service from what is intended under the law. What will the Council of State do to change this practice?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-24.ana.ud2089e1496	Over time, municipalities have placed greater emphasis on providing services in their own homes and in municipal housing, while at the same time paying less attention to traditional institutional care. This is partly due to the professional development in the care sector, but it is also, as I understand it, a municipal strategy to make better use of resources. These developments have been supported both in the action plan for the care of the elderly and in the Roadmap for mental health. In both of these plans, it facilitates a large-scale investment in nursing homes. I perceive that this is essentially a legal development that is well-founded on a professional basis. I also believe that it makes sense for municipalities to assess how the provision of the population can be delivered in the best possible way in relation to the use of economic resources. On the other hand, of course, it is unfortunate if the purpose of obtaining maximum transfers from the state is to govern how the municipalities organise their service. As the representative is well aware, a matter of financing and user payment for care services was sent at the hearing of the then Ministry of Social Affairs in March 2004. It is a matter that has not yet been submitted to Stortinget. On this occasion, I can inform you that the design of care and care services and the national funding system for municipal service production are the subject of the Storing Communication on future care services, which is coming to Stortingen in the autumn. Questions about financing and user payment will also be specifically mentioned in that message. Then you will have plenty of opportunity to go even deeper into the problem that I understand the representative is also concerned about.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-24.ana.ud2089e1503	I thank you for the answer, but I am somewhat unsure if I have received an answer to my question. Simply stated, there are existing health care centres in existing institutions that are being rehabilitated and defined as nursing homes in order to allow the municipality to escape cheaper for economic reasons. Thus the inhabitants, the patients, the oldest of the oldest and the sickest of the oldest, get a far, far worse health offer. That's the loophole in the law I'm asking if the Council of State will quickly close, so that this is simply not possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-24.ana.ud2089e1508	I am prepared to go through that matter. We will come back to it, as I said in my main response, in the message we will bring to the autumn. With regard to the scope of the conversion, as the representative is concerned, there is unfortunately no systematic overview of the number of municipalities that have converted their health care centres. As we know, after contact with county officials and from various media postings, it is a handful of municipalities that have decided to convert sick homes into homes with home services, thereby introducing a service-based payment. We are going to go through this properly and try to find out more, and also assess the conditions that the representative Holmberg here takes up. We'll be there, among other things. back to it in the message for the autumn.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-24.ana.ud2089e1515	There is no systematic overview, says the Council of State. I don't doubt it this way, I just register that in my home state there are enough of these examples present. That's why I'm concerned that the Council of State is going through this carefully and deliberately. I am pleased with the signals I have now received, and will follow with interest on the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-24.ana.ud2089e1520	I'll go through it and get back to Stortinget in a suitable way so that we can discuss it in a broader context.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-24.ana.ud2089e1525	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone ask for the floor in accordance with § 37a of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
