ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-11-2.ana.ud1870e52	First a visit in all the friendships of the Christian People's Party: today they have used me and my opinion about the school in Mali from this summer as an argument for their proposal. It is right that I thought that the department, in the light of the exceptions in the laws and the Stortinget stated in spring about Kenya and Ethiopia, could have found a solution for Mali. However, I have been careful to stress that the Central Party takes note of the Department's decision and will work for a permanent law that ensures a school under Norwegian law for children of mission and assistance workers. I refer to the State Council's clarification today just when it concerns Mali. I'm otherwise surprised by the Christian People's Party's presentation that the option for these students is Norway or Ethiopia. The Norwegian Mission Company is trying very well to run the school for the next year. So today, too, the Christian People's Party has criticized the Government for the lack of follow-up of the voluntary sector. Neither SEK 58 million to study associations, more funds to Freefonds or more volunteer agencies seemed to fall under the Christian People's Party's definition of volunteering. This, on the other hand, makes the addition to free church buildings. In the Central Party, we were surprised when the contribution was removed from the budget for 2006. Several of us knew of local associations and church sounds that had built under construction with state grants as part of the funding. We decided to do what we could to reverse that decision, and we're very pleased with that add-on of 9.4 million. kr for the current year is accepted for the new aging period. After interaction with the Christian People's Party, the grant is passed on for 2007 and is one of several elements that means that we can say that a good voluntary budget has been better. Before elementary and secondary schools, there are two important and decisive differences between today's government and the previous government: firstly, there is fresh air. In the Central Party, we are looking forward to the government setting up a private school law in the Bondevik I pact, with rooms for schools based on life views and alternative pedagogics. Secondly, it is the municipal economy: the red-green government provides completely different opportunities for a school to adapt to the individual community and individual students. 13 billion more in free income over two years will be used for more tasks, but we still get happy messages from all over the country. All sorrows have not been completed. Municipalities still have major challenges, but there is a whole different and greater community commitment, to the future, to our children and young people.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-11-2.ana.ud1870e65	When I hear the Minister of Knowledge here today, it is obvious that he and the Government have chosen as a strategy that attack is the best defense. It's not the Right, but the Government itself that laughs when you start the bet in the north areas with tens of millions in cuts to universities and colleges in North Norway. Nor can the Council of State Djupedal escape the promises of the red-green parties from the election campaign and that the government is not now complying. The government's results in the northern regions must be seen in a generation perspective, it was said in Tromsø during the presentation. But as everyone in this room knows: No Norwegian government is ruling for generations – even if you could dream about it – and the jobs in the north are needed now, and before even more young people leave North Norway. The struggle for the labour force is on its way, and I have no faith that young people from southern Norway will order a moving car and move northwards. On the other hand, I have great faith in the fact that the country's own youth will be able to do so, and then it is the job opportunities today and tomorrow that will be crucial, and not the opportunities that the government is talking about in a generation perspective, in perhaps 20-30 years. This has taken the consequences of this in its alternative budget and continues the appropriations for the higher education sector in the north at a high level. In addition, we follow the step-up plan for scholarship positions, and we significantly increase the research appropriations. The representative Ole-Anton Tegen tried in his speech to talk away from the facts of the matter when he expressed disappointment that the Right in this debate has pointed out the significant distance between word and action in the northern regions. I can promise that I will continue to disappoint the representative Tegen and others who are trying to minimize the fact that the funds for the North Region bet have not come into place. When the budget was presented on 6 October, the Norwegian red-green representatives apologised for the fact that the proposed cuts and the low research appropriations came because there were no concrete projects in the north. With respect to reporting, this is wrong, and the representative Tegen knows that well. No matter what the trade union councils and representatives of the red-green government parties may think, it's a fact that the government has taken their pants down. Many have spoken and written warm about the possibilities in the north, but the government fails in the hour of the follow-up. There is a widespread perception in North Norway that the government has promised far more than it has been able to deliver. Cut is not and will not bet, no matter how you turn and turn on it. I would therefore like to repeat my question to the Minister of Knowledge: Why does the Government not shield the Nordic knowledge institutions from cutting in 2007, when knowledge is the very bearer of the Northern Region bet? And it should perhaps stir up a little bit of thought that the government's negrusic admiring itself in terms of the northern regions, not far near being shared by all.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-11-2.ana.ud1870e88	Anders Anundsen has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark of up to one minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-11-2.ana.ud1870e91	What makes it necessary to take the floor again is Freddy de Ruiter's wonder about the schoolbook policy of the Progress Party. He was amazed and questioned the motives of the Advance Party after the country meeting of the Advance Party had been in favour of free school material in secondary education. I had thought that the Ruiters and others in the Workers' Party would be pleased that the Advance Party agreed that there would be free and free school material in secondary education. But as de Ruiter himself said in his post, it's common to say that when someone does something good, you try to get focus away from it, and that was probably what the representative de Ruiter tried to do. Otherwise, I still find it strange that Huitfeldt's representative is standing on this platform and keeps some undefined sources higher than Norwegian research reports on the impact of high schooling on public schools. That in addition, she represents a party that is part of a government that has stopped a research project that could give the answers Anniken Huitfeldt claims in advance that she has, is very strange.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-11-2.ana.ud1870e98	Odd Einar Dørum has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment of up to one minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-11-2.ana.ud1870e101	At the end of the debate, I think it's okay to make it clear that in the context of a realistic budget, the Left believes that it would have been entirely possible to avoid cutting higher education and to be fully committed to both basic research, applied research and nutrient research. The left's budget illustrates that. When the three government parties have chosen not to do so, it is because they have not had the will and the ability to prioritise neither higher education nor research. It is, in my opinion, a very clear choice situation, and I find nothing unreasonable in it. It just shows that politics is about wanting something, it's about prioritizing, and it's about choosing. The choice of the left then contrasts with the choice of the government parties. Sometimes you have to put a dot for something, and this was a small contribution!
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-11-2.ana.ud1870e108	The President had nothing against it! Gunnar Gundersen has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark of up to one minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-11-2.ana.ud1870e113	We've been thinking about re-prioritizing! What made me take the floor for a brief comment was the Huitfeldt representative's mention of fresh oils. For it must be possible to deal with Norwegian research, as has been said here in some contexts, and not just Danish and Swedish. We read in the reports that have come, and also a headline in the Newspaper on 24 November, that there are no signs of segregation, and that the free schools actually seem positive in public schools too. Now State Secretary Rugtvedt said in the same newspaper that you should learn from the boarding schools. Then the question becomes, why do you take the life of what you're going to try to learn from? And why do you stop research on what kind of results this actually gives? I would like to ask those who express so strongly that they are the ones who are most concerned about the success of the public school: why not express confidence in both the teacher's apparatus and the school's ability to cope with infirmities? Then you would really show them the trust needed to be a good public school.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-11-2.ana.ud1870e120	The representative of Gunnar Gundersen stated that it would be too tough for some nurse training to meet the 20 pst requirement. first position competence and their exemption from the requirement. They were supposed to indemnify themselves against practice guidance. I don't quite know if I understand what the representative Gundersen is saying, but to me it sounds like there are two types of higher education for nurses, and I guess he doesn't mean that. The education has several types of teaching. Among other things, guided practices are an important element. But that kind of guided practice should also be as research-based as other education. Nurses have had a curved path towards first competence, we can agree on that. We could also say that it would cost to meet the requirements of NOKUT. However, making demands on nurse training other than those on other higher education is pointless. In addition, I now have the hope that the path towards first-time competence will be made easier by the fact that further training in nursing has come under the responsibility of the Ministry of Knowledge. It can make it easier to approve these at the master level and will probably make it easier for more specialised nurses to go into education as they go. Then the path to first-time competence is easier than starting from scratch with a whole new education in order to be able to teach at nurse's training. In addition, training would provide teachers with relevant practices, which would benefit greatly from the practical guidance. Finally, I would like to repeat what I said earlier that there is a major unmet need for research and development work in the care sector. In St.meld. No 25 for 2005-2006 Mestring, opportunities and meaning – on future care challenges – education capacity and competences are discussed. It is an offensive communication in which a recent report mentions more research and development in the sector. There, nurse training, together with other health professional training, plays one of the key roles. Then I guess we can't say from this room that it's too tough for some of the nurse's trainings to satisfy NOKUT's claim for 20 pst. first position competence.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-11-2.ana.ud1870e133	Dagrun Eriksen has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment of up to one minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-11-2.ana.ud1870e137	After the pleasant visit from the Center Party on the volunteer profile, I also want to say a few words about the school in Mopti, Mali. I am pleased with the signal that there is no objection that the school should try again, and it should definitely be passed on. But after hearing today's touching story of Tegen's granddaughter, there stood for me a Norwegian family in Mali with four boys of five, six, eight and ten years, whom the majority must wish to be sent across Africa in order to go to school. The mission takes care of this itself, it's clear. But it's the majority in this room that gives it as an alternative if the Norwegian state is going to attend and pay school for these four boys. I also want to say at the bottom of the debate that it is strange when you hear the red-green talk about the public school, and especially the primary school, that there are once again boundaries in relation to the colleges. I think it's sad that it's going to be the main focus. It's a few percent, and we need to work together to get a good, strong public school.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-11-2.ana.ud1870e146	Three brief comments on three review themes in this budget debate: First, a comment on the free school debate. It is amazing to hear speakers from the government parties, in particular Huitfeldt, argue that it is best to take a stand on this matter without worrying about research-based knowledge. It must mean, in principle, that legislation in this area should be based on something other than research-based knowledge, i.e. preconceived opinions. It's really just to take note, and it's not surprising, because this has been an ideologically conditional position every year, the fight against the colleges. I heard the Minister of Knowledge in the morning meeting say that for universities and colleges in this country there was no nirvana under the previous government either. That's what I think universities and colleges should be happy about, because nirvana means extinction, that is to say, an eternity of rest. I think universities and colleges appreciated that it wasn't like that under the previous government, but I think it would be an advantage if the Council of State had decided for one of two, either to follow up its own metaphor, the rest-cut -- and then this budget is nothing to defend, and even less something to boast about -- or to try to settle this metaphor and boast of a budget that really means a significant cut-off, while all the other sectors of the government budget have growth. So, finally, a small comment on the Minister of the Church's contributions to the management of the funds in the Information Society's fund. The Minister of the Church defends that the appreciation of the part of the capital invested in shares will be taken. It must be allowed to say that there is a very unusual way of managing public fund values. The logic suggests, given that equity investments are risk investments, that if one intends to invest on the line of possible capital appreciation in the future, the Council of State should also take the aim of covering the opposite, namely if there is an impairment of the share capital. He didn't mention one word about that, and it probably tells me what this is about, namely, that you need to pick up funds to cover what is legally required tasks for the state to cover.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-11-2.ana.ud1870e157	I'm actually a little surprised that the Norwegian Church has had such a small place in today's debate, but I choose to interpret this positively, because there are largely positive changes in the budget, which almost all of the Storting is behind. And it is that when the Church framework is extended, this automatically has positive consequences for other religious and life-view societies. Where there is a small difference between the parties, the proposals for grants for performances – but all extend the framework – and for grants to private church buildings, where, as far as I can see, only the Right and the Left are not proposing an increase. I want to allow myself to use the same picture that others have used earlier today, namely that some items are disappearing small in the big context, but in isolation they mean a lot to them. Here I am thinking of the questions I asked to the representative of the Progress Party earlier today, but I did not receive an answer. We love to call ourselves a voice and inclusive society, and for all things, it has to be central to our policy. But then I'm a little surprised by the Progress Party when they propose to shut down the Sameting, they propose to cut off grants for training for linguistic minorities, propose to cut off grants for training in Finnish and female. So here we are talking about minorities and indigenous people. Furthermore, the Progress Party proposes to cut grants for the development of music and cultural schools and to cut grants to Nordic arts and film schools. Finally, the Progress Party says that they will have a commitment in the research sector that takes less account of district policy. How does this relate to the fact that the representative of the Progress Party Gåsvatn expresses concern about the branch school? I am pleased that we have room in the budget for both district policy and minorities. Or is it the case, as the Progress Party writes in its comments, that ‘equal opportunities are completed’ also in this area?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-11-2.ana.ud1870e166	Freddy de Ruiter has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-11-2.ana.ud1870e169	I want to repeat the story of free education in school. It can't be told enough times. Here, the Progress Party has consistently opposed and torpedoed every opportunity to get it in place, even after we last introduced it. ‘Politics are too wild,’ was said in the Chamber here earlier, by another representative. It is, but politics is not just wanting, but wanting to give priority. When one sees that the Progress Party for next year's budget goes beyond the limits of NOK 23 billion, and adds it to the representatives' proposals that have been in the current year, one can start to cheat on realism. I am probably afraid that when reality obtains the Progress Party, and they may have to negotiate with other parties, free learning will probably come down to the bottom of the list. That's what history shows.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-11-2.ana.ud1870e174	Anniken Huitfeldt has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-11-2.ana.ud1870e177	I am surprised that the representative for Wage does not have a better knowledge of the accompanying research system to follow up the school reforms that are being adopted. That is why the previous government started follow-up research, which was to follow the implementation of the new law on free schooling. That's good. But when we saw the law reversed, we didn't need to start researching a law that had stopped. We want knowledge, but the research that the opposition is talking about now is about knowledge about another type of private school law. Anundsen says I have obscure research reports. Yes, I refer, among others. to the Research Institute of the Offices and the Municipalities: there will be major social differences between private schools. When the right-hand side refuses to admit it, it's because they're not concerned with reducing the social differences in school.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-11-2.ana.ud1870e184	Let me answer some of the challenges that the representatives have met. First to the representative, Gundersen, who thought we should follow up on the evaluation of nursing training and not allow primary competence at all colleges. In that case, it would be a blatant breach of what is the Law of Higher Education, and would lead to an A-layer and a B-layer within the higher education system. I guess the right doesn't mean we're going to have some educational colleges and some research-based colleges. It may have been a slip of the tongue, but in any case it's not the government's policy. We're going to have colleges with quality and research-based education everywhere. So we've added 11.9 million. kr i revised in order to give this opportunity to obtain first qualification in nursing training at the higher education institutions which were then to work for such a purpose. Several people have been involved in this with private schools. Let me just say that private school research is not unique. The recently published research reports do not show a clear picture. Public schools do best for 4th grade, but, in some cases, in the case of those leaving primary school, private schools do somewhat better. Continuously, the research into this does not give any clear picture in any direction. There are, of course, also political issues, so that when you stand in the main hall, you should not be shy about politics. Politics is ideology, and choice is made because in the long run, you think what you do is right. Fortunately, this applies to all of the parts in this hall. This is assessed from a basic political point of view, and also, of course, from an empirical and knowledge point of view. What else is to say about the research carried out under the old law on high school education is that the new law is now being consulted. The research resources that are left are now to be used for the follow-up research of a new law. Of course, we also want to spend more money on research on this, because it is quite right that more people have been involved, that we need research both in public schools and in private schools. We need research both on results and on other aspects of this. It's simply knowledge that we need as a government, not least to take with us how the school is going to get better and better. Let me just end by mentioning this again with the school in Mali. The law adopted by the Storting did not give us the opportunity to grant exemptions from the law. But I encourage the school to apply again. This law is now being consulted, and it will come back to Stortinget during the spring. If the Stortinget then takes its decisions before the summer, we can get a fairly quick procedure on this, in line with the parliamentary chairman of the Central Party, Mr Kleppa. There is a view that the Government fully shares. But if there's no law support for this, we can't give dispensation. But as I absolutely said in my post: we found a solution for Ethiopia and Kenya, because it is explicitly mentioned in the committee's vote. In that way, we went around the law and gave an extra allocation that allowed these two schools to move on. In conclusion, let me also say to the representative of Wage, who was involved in this with appropriations for higher education under our government, that if he compares the appropriations like that. is in research, he will see that what the previous government did was cut research appropriations to 2.3 pst. in the last budget they provided and were responsible for implementing in the Stortinget. So it was a real cut of 2.3 pst. This means that the research appropriations that our government has provided are consistently better than all the research appropriations that the previous government has done throughout its period. So that these delusions can live on, that this is bad for higher education, I have a little hard to take seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-11-2.ana.ud1870e199	To conclude, what I tried to recommend to the Minister of Knowledge was really just to make a choice between two options, either to maintain that the budget he has put forward for higher education and research is a piece of rest – and I think that is a very good metaphor, striking at all points – or to try to argue that it is the best budget ever presented. He can't pick both options at the same time. So to the high school case. It is true, as the minister of knowledge says, that the two Norwegian research reports that have come are not unambiguous. That's rarely research results. But they are clear on one point. They show that the cliché perceptions that Huitfeldt's representative continues to co-port, have no team in empirical terms. They're purely dogmatic. When you stand on this pulpit and say that there will be great social differences with private schools, as a categorical statement without reservation of any kind, it's a pretty impressive daring compared to the knowledge that actually exists. It helps little to shake your head on that occasion. It won't be inside anymore for that reason. Let me stress that there is no research to demonstrate that in Norway there are clear differences in social recruitment to fresh schools compared to public schools. The evidence of these two research reports is precisely that there are no such demonstrable differences. It almost has to be noted, if you otherwise accept common scientific methods. Politics is politics, and research is research. Yeah, lucky for you. And it's all right that there are different political views about how the school system can best be organised. But in the case of statements of fact, which are actually empirically verifiable, there is an advantage whether such claims are close to reality.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-11-2.ana.ud1870e213	I'll be brief. When a person sits and hears a lot of things, it's in some areas that one can think that I can agree with that, but I'm not going to take the word for that reason. But there is one thing that is repeated and repeated, especially from the representative Huitfeldt. It's about the social differences whether a person chooses such a thing or such a school, because there's something wrong, when one sees that it's actually the policy of the Workers' Party and its partners that will create the social difference. Today, those who have money can go and buy the place they want for their children, whether they are domestic or abroad. Had an opportunity for a free school that the state was with and funded, little Per would also be able to choose what suited him and his parents best. Just like it's being added up, parents with heavy wallets can get that education for their children. Who is the loser, and who makes social differences? I'm just asking.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-11-2.ana.ud1870e220	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. One, two, three. [[Footing, see page 1230]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-11-2.ana.ud1870e236	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-11-2.ana.ud1870e243	I think it's right to say that a total mass shares the view on the significance of the questions raised in Document No. The 8th proposal by the representatives of Solberg, Thommessen, Eriksen Soreide and Holmberg. In a knowledge society, it is important that all be given real opportunities for education. In recent days, we have had a number of reports on misguided language training of minorities in primary school, leading to difficulties in completing continuing training and re-establishing problems in relation to the labour market. But problems start before school, because linguistic skills are a prerequisite for success in school. Therefore, efforts for language development need to be put in place before school starts. This is something we've known for a long time. This awareness has also shifted governments, and various measures have focused on language skills in pre-school age. The proposers ask the Government to draw up a stepping-up plan for 2009 with a view to introducing, on a national basis, language mapping of four-year-olds at health centres’ four-year-olds and the provision of measures and guidance where necessary. The proposers have chosen to maintain their proposal, while the majority of the Committee has assessed the measures now in place and will be launched by the Government as measures aimed at improving the language skills of pre-school children on a somewhat wider basis. The majority, who share the intentions of the proposers, believe that the Government is in the process of fulfilling these intentions. The majority therefore propose that the proposal be annexed to the Protocol. The budgets for 2006 and 2007 tell us something about the work the Government has done and will do in this field. In 2006, 10 million were granted. kr from the Ministry of Labour and Inclusion’s budget for a probationary scheme in which the twelve municipalities with the largest immigration population and Tromsø could apply for language-monitoring funds for all four-year-olds at health centres in order to ensure better language skills in Norwegian at school start. In order to be allocated funds, contributions shall be made, inter alia: emphasis on the development of good inter-disciplinary cooperation models for the follow-up to language development and for the development of parental guidance and cooperation models with representatives on language stimulation measures. In the 2007 budget, the Government has proposed 5 million. kr for the language promise model test, which will take place over four years, and will provide practical experience that can be used to develop an offer for further investigation and adapted actions in the last two years prior to school start. In 2006, free-of-charge short-term trials were launched for all four- and five-year-olds in the Stovner district. Furthermore, a project funded by the Government of four districts of Oslo is ongoing with out-patient pedagogues to offer language stimulation to four- and five-year-olds who do not go to kindergarten. In a broader context, the questions addressed in Document No. The 8th proposal will be addressed in the notification on the role of education as a tool for social cohesion. The ongoing projects and the work done by the Government in this field tell us that the commitment shown by the proposers is also shared by the Government. And the committee number feels confident that the intentions expressed in Document No. The 8 proposal will be and will be taken care of by the Government's proposals. With it, the Committee proposes that the proposal be annexed to the Minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-11-2.ana.ud1870e269	I am pleased with the commitment shown by the position in this matter, and I am pleased that we can now see that there is a broad consensus on both the intentions and many of the instruments proposed. When, on behalf of the opposition, I want to maintain our proposal, it's probably because we also want a little bit more hunger compared to having these things pressed. We believe it is important to set an objective, namely the objective of having an up-to-date offer already in 2009. This is very important to do, and there is a good deal of work that needs to be done before this can get up and stand properly. There are a few things I would like to focus on. First of all, I note that a good part of the measures added to the Ministry of Labour and Inclusion in the other letters received by the Council of State. That is excellent, but we have to write behind our ear that action is primarily directed at children with an immigration background – and that is important. But we're looking for a wider order. It is also very important to get access to the Norwegian-speaking children who need special educational services. There we have challenges to tackle. We have noticed that reference is made to the language mapping tool LANGUAGE 4. We have also noticed that there are reports, among others. from Rambøll Management, who raises some questions by LANGUAGE 4 as a language mapping tool. We think it is important to get started on strengthening research in this area. We need more knowledge, and we need a more in-depth and nine-time evaluation of both this tool and the tools we have at our disposal in this work. If we're going to do this by 2009, there's a need for a momentum, a hunger in terms of getting started and setting clear goals, so it's going to be if you say you're going to have this up and up in 2009. It is true, then, that the case rapporteur so well pointed out, that the Bondevik II government started experimenting in this area in twelve municipalities. Of course, it's excellent that it's going to continue. Of course, it is also excellent to want an evaluation of the results obtained. But we probably also wanted the pilot scheme to be extended, that more municipalities were also working, that they had started. It's okay with evaluations, but it's weird about that, it can also quickly go out in time. We had probably hoped that the government would give priority to launching several of these projects in the future. It's very far ahead – from twelve to over 400 – if you think this is going to apply to all municipalities. There may not be anything to have in all municipalities, but an offer must at least be available in all municipalities. We agree in this room that it is important to master the language, in writing as verbal. It's important that we give this tool to our children, that they get the help, the corrections and the input that give them the opportunity to extract the talents that they've brought with them in the cradle. From this point of view, I take up our original proposal, and I do it on behalf of the Advancement Party, the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-11-2.ana.ud1870e284	The representative Olemic Thommess has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-11-2.ana.ud1870e287	That children have to meet on the first day of school and cannot take on what it is taught, or understand what the teacher is talking about, is probably the easiest way to create losers. When we want a faster pace of work for knowledge, competence and communication in the school system, it is in view of those who have the weakest basis and thus the greatest difficulty in dealing with things. I am pleased that it is a unanimous enlargement that agrees that this is the important priority. When I take the word now, it's to tell the story that it's the Stortinget meant before. This was also considered to be the case during the 1997–2001 programming period. A unanimous increase then joined a Document No. 8-proposals by the Right, inter alia: by the undersigned, to introduce a language test of all children during the four-yearly check. The government then told them to follow it up. When I became the Council of State, the proposal was not followed up at all. Nothing had happened on the part of two different governments to follow up the unanimous decision of Stortinget, for they would think a little more about it. We chose, when I was the Council of State, to implement some projects with funds found on our own budget for integration. This was primarily in terms of immigrants, but what the projects showed was that it is far from just immigrant children having problems. In fact, there are many others who are also understimulated in their language development, and who have difficulties in following and getting along from the first day of school. When I take the word now, it's just to remember this story. I hope, when a unanimous magnification once again asks for this, that this government has actually intended to follow it up. What this government has done so far is to implement what I signed through the Bondevik II government, that is, 10 million. kr in the budget of the then Ministry of Local Affairs to start this work on a larger scale than had been the first experiments in the Drammen and the Groruddalen. What was clearly on our side was an escalation. As there was no escalation in the budget in the autumn, I was disappointed. I hear so many and well-meaning words about this, and in the meantime, more and more children in Norwegian school are starting out who have not received a pre-school offer and, as we already know, are going to fall out of Norwegian school, because we have not prioritised them in the budget procedures. This has been the case for at least six years, with too little implementation. I hope that adding this to the protocol does not mean that we are going to experience the same thing that we experienced before the previous government, that the positive intentions were not followed up because it was so much different to prioritize. These kids only have one life and one school.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-11-2.ana.ud1870e296	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[See page 1240]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-11-2.ana.ud1870e304	The amount of the increase shall be added to the number of cases. 1 to 4.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-11-2.ana.ud1870e312	In the course of the debate, 38 proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1-20, by Anders Anundsen on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left proposal No. 21 and 22, by Anders Anundsen on behalf of the Progress Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left Proposals No. 23-37, by Anders Anundsen, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentiality and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights. 38, from Dagrun Eriksen on behalf of First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 38, from the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to develop guidelines for the cultural school activities which ensure the professional and social profile of the offer.’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-11-2.ana.ud1870e342	The proposals are then put to the vote. 23–37, from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-11-2.ana.ud1870e445	The proposals are then put to the vote. 21 and 22, from the Party of Prosperity, the Christian Party, and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-11-2.ana.ud1870e469	The proposals are then put to the vote. 1–20, from the Party of Advancement, Right, Christian People's Party and Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-11-2.ana.ud1870e3986	The President assumes that the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left will vote against the framework. - That's right.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-11-2.ana.ud1870e4003	During the debate, Mr Anundsen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to make the necessary proposals for the establishment of a book and material card system, which ensures free school material for secondary school students.’ Alternatively, this proposal and the referral by the Committee shall be voted on.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-11-2.ana.ud1870e4029	During the debate, Anders Anundsen has put forward two proposals on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-11-2.ana.ud1870e4064	During the debate, Olemic Thommessen has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to draw up a stepping-up plan for 2009 with a view to introducing, on a country-by-country basis, language mapping of four-year-olds at the health centre’s four-year-old check, and to providing measures and guidance where necessary.’ Alternatively, this proposal and the referral by the Committee shall be voted on.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-11-2.ana.ud1870e4112	Does anyone require a word under Section 37(a) of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
