ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-04.ana.ud102e43	The delegation to the 114th Conference of the Interparliamentary Union in Nairobi, signed by the Head of the Delegation, Mr Finn Martin Vallersnes, is the subject of a request for leave. The application concerns a period of leave from 9 May to 16 May for the representatives of Ingrid Heggø, Espen Johnsen, Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa, Thore A. Nistad, Heidi Sørensen and Finn Martin Vallersnes. That application is proposed to be examined immediately and to be accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The first alternate of the Uppland County, Synnøve Brenden Klemetrud, is prevented from meeting at the Stortinge from 9 May until 14 May, under the permission of the representative Espen Johnsen, for foreign stays. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For Uppland County: Morten Ørsal Johansen, Stein Knutsen and Synnove Fire KlemetrudFor Oslo: Akhtar ChaudhryFor Rogaland County: Siri A. Meling and Trond LodeFor Sogn and Fjordane County: Cecilie Thaule Løvlid2. Morten Ørsal Johansen, Stein Knutsen, Synnøve Brenden Klemetrud and Siri A. Meling are elected to Lagtinget for the time they meet for Thore A. Nistad, Espen Johnsen and Finn Martin Vallersnes respectively.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-04.ana.ud102e102	The representative Kåre Fostervold will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-04.ana.ud102e105	On behalf of the representatives of Øyvind Korsberg, Jørund Rytman and myself, I am delighted to propose the establishment of a cooperation programme to reduce the burden on business and the public sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-04.ana.ud102e110	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before considering the issues on today’s map, the President will propose that the morning meeting – if necessary – continue beyond the regulatory time, at 1 p.m. 15.00, until the current map has been processed. No objection has been raised against the President's proposal. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-04.ana.ud102e132	There is good evidence that active use of good design in product and service development can have a significant impact on business profitability and competitiveness. Already in the budget proposal last fall, the government showed a willingness to invest in design by increasing its budget to $25 million. kr. This has enabled the Norwegian Design Council to expand its strategic focus on design. It's probably so that many of us think of design as something demeaning, something cosmetic that primarily affects the outside of a product. But design is so much more. I have, among other things: visited a small company on Ski, where a girl operated as an industrial designer. Her design includes: high pentmasters, where the design also actually has an environmental impact. She also designs trafokioskar. She is nominee at NTNU's design prize, and it is actually being published today who has won. I would like to say something about design being cosmetic, of course, but also about the environmental and about the user-friendly. Overall, it can provide a better product. The leader of the Norwegian Design Council describes design as a means and method of building more knowledge and competence into the product, and indicates that design is about problem solving and processes, about innovation, function, resource use, sound economic development and form. This says a lot about the width and importance of this field. It also gives us an indication of why it's so important in a business policy context. In order to strengthen the competitiveness of the mainland economy, there is a need to increase the level of further processing of goods and the quality of services in Norwegian business. There is also a need to increase the pace of innovation in product development, while we see that the need for goods and services is constantly changing. A more innovative business life, according to the Labour Party's opinion, is crucial to sustain well-being and employment in this country in the future. It is therefore important that we pursue an active innovation policy that can help to strengthen the capacity of business to renew and improve. Research shows that a strategic use of design in enterprises contributes to increased competitiveness and employment in industry. It is important that we reach out to the companies with the message that, by investing in design, they can increase their potential to assert themselves in an increasingly demanding market. In this context, the State tools play an important role. Norwegian Design Councils can inform – and transfer competence to companies – about how they can use design as a strategic and innovative tool. Through the cooperation established with Innovation Norway, they reach businesses across the country. This has helped to increase both the competence and the attention to design in Norwegian companies. I believe that Innovation Norway has a design manager at all the offices in Norway, so that there is more pressure on the company's development on the design page. It is a pleasure to hear that Innovation Norway reports that the design projects show good results. It is also great that the Design Council has entered into a cooperation with the Research Council around the SkattenFUNN scheme. It is also an initiative that stimulates increased innovation in business. A recent conference on the SkattenFUNN scheme found that the Norwegian company Asono has been brought into line with the Japanese market for MP3 players. In fact, they have made that clear, among other things. because they've invested in design. The technology is very good, but the design also means something in such a context. But there are still major challenges in this area, and it is so important that we, as politicians, help to provide the tools with resources, so that they can continue to focus on this work. I also get some feedback that the fact that SkattenFUNN is involved in this is a good tool. It works so that then maybe the companies dare to bet. For many companies it may be new, but the fact that the tool is in use makes it easier to bet. The Soria Moria statement states that the government will sort out a proprietary design package. For this reason, I have asked the Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade to do what he wants to do to follow this up and to help ensure that industrial design can become a more strategic tool for a more innovative business.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-04.ana.ud102e158	I would first of all like to thank the interpellant for the opportunity to debate the importance of design in Norwegian business. The government will work to make Norwegian design a competitive factor that both producers and customers demand. As the interpellant refers to, it is well documented that the use of design can have a significant impact on the profitability and competitiveness of Norwegian industry. This is also our starting point and our focus in the design effort. However, studies show that it is not just the fact that companies use design, which affects profitability and export share; they show that this is not least a question of how they use design. Here we can get inspiration from our neighbouring countries, perhaps especially Denmark and Finland. Both Danish and Finnish design has become a concept that sells the world over. That is, it is Danish and Finnish products that sell. They sell because they have good design. One reason for this success is that companies are good at including design in the right phase of product development, i.e. at all stages. Design competence helps keep the focus on the end-user. This means focusing on finding solutions in terms of needs, user-friendliness, identity and distinctiveness. Design is something that surrounds us all the time – milk cartons, cheese caps, bicycle seats, furniture and lamps or incubators, control panels and power switches – and it concerns us all. Design is also an important factor in internationalisation and branding. We are also developing very good products in Norway. But we have a lot to learn about getting more companies to integrate design into their daily business. I want to contribute actively to this. Interpellanten mentions Norwegian Design Council, which plays a central role in concrete work. The government was given a majority in Stortinget to increase the grant to the Design Council to record 25 million. kr in the budget for this year. This is an increase of 48 pst. in relation to last year. This took into account the fact that the Design Council received additional funding for the implementation of the 2005 design year. Innovation Norway’s funds for design have also been significantly strengthened. To date, the focus has been largely aimed at getting industry informed that design pays off. And the message is understood. Opinion, commissioned by the Norwegian Design Council, has conducted a survey among a representative sample of 1,200 Norwegian business leaders. 80 pst. Of these, there's a positive relationship between design and profitability. 86 pst. believes that Norway should be more committed to exploiting its design skills. Now it's our job to make sure that that's exactly what happens. In the Soria Moria statement, it is established that the Government will conduct an industry-oriented design package. This design package shall include education, key industries and industrial environments in addition to the instrumentation. The process is already well underway, and we hope to be able to launch the design package before the summer break. I don't want to pre-shoot the final contents of the package here, but I want to say a little bit about how we think. Firstly, the design package should be nutrient-oriented, i.e.: it shall contribute to the promotion of design as a tool for increasing the profitability of Norwegian business. The main focus will therefore be on how design can strengthen Norwegian business in general, and not on the design industry as such. Secondly, the design package will focus on current industries and industrial environments. The government will invest heavily in areas where Norway has competence and special advantages, such as maritime, marine, energy, environment and – not least – travel. Strategic use of design represents a potential for innovation and for increased profitability in all these areas. Especially in the field of maritime innovation, we have succeeded in combining the highest of technologies with functional and innovative design. This is often a form of ‘invisible’ design. One good example is Ulstein’s revolutionary anchor handling vessel, which was named after the year’s technology show in 2005. It's spectacular enough and by no means invisible! But it takes a trained eye to discover some of the most important design-driven innovations in this ship. Often good design means that one does not notice that it is there. Bad design, however, notices one very well. The very technology associated with handling the heavy anchors can be an example of this. Good design means more efficient handling and not least a significant reduction in the risk of accidents. Thirdly, the design package shall have an international dimension. Increased profitability is about reduced production costs or increased sales. So design is a tool in both of these areas. Good design often means simpler production processes and cost-saving solutions. At the same time, it's a prerequisite that we have buyers for the goods and services we produce. It is a matter of preference in competition. Design competence contributes to this because it is therefore focused on finding solutions in terms of needs, user-friendliness, as the interpellant pointed to, identity and distinctiveness. Good design tells a story and shapes identity and distinctiveness. It gives a picture of what the business stands for. This is what brand construction is about, and good brands are successful! Design shall contribute to the international success of Norwegian products, both by making them competitive at price and by integrating unique characteristics that make them attractive in the market. Fourthly, the design package will include both counselling and education. As I said, the design board's study shows that 80 pst. by Norwegian business leaders, there is a positive link between design and profitability, and 86 pst. believes that Norway should be more committed to exploiting its design skills. Nevertheless, we need business leaders who know more about design and how design skills can be integrated into companies' own strategies. It is therefore important that design is a theme of the institutions that train Norwegian leaders. The government is pursuing an active enterprise policy. We believe that strong partnerships between business, education and research institutions and the public will deliver the best results. This idea also characterises the Government's work on further developing industrial design as a strategic tool for a more innovative and not least more profitable business.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-04.ana.ud102e213	I would like to thank the Minister of Industry for a good answer, which shows that the Department is working well with this field. I am happy with the progress of my work when we are now reflecting that a design package is actually coming before summer holidays. I very much agree with the Minister of Industry that this work, that is, how design can be used to strengthen Norwegian business, should be focused, because that is what needs to be important. I am pleased that the design package will focus on current industries and industrial environments. Unlike the previous government, this government is not afraid to bet on the industries where we have an extraordinarily great chance of happiness, and I think that's very good. The shipping industry is such an industry. I'm impressed by how parts of the industry have worked through their use of industrial design as a strategic tool. Of course, the fact that the design package has an international focus is absolutely necessary. I also thought that what the Minister of Industry said about looking at Denmark and Finland is important. We don't have to find out everything, we can also learn from others, from neighboring countries. We are also very pleased that the emphasis is placed on integrating design skills into the company's lease. If not understanding the importance of emphasising design is anchored in the leadership and in the company's strategies, one will not get very far. That is why I share my views with the Council of State when it comes to the need to include design in the training of tenants in this country. But in addition, advice must be one of the tools we use, which is also mentioned by the minister in his article. It is very good to get it into the lessor's training and to have a tool for consulting existing companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-04.ana.ud102e226	The interpellant now gave me the opportunity to spin a little bit further on the relationship between nutrition, culture and design in other matters on which it is important to focus. I would like to underline once again that our main task is to focus on the design area, and that our work area is just more nutrient design. We believe in design processes that strengthen the profitability of companies. It is immeasurable to bear in mind that design as a concept and as an input factor should stimulate increased profitability and competitiveness. Both industrial design and communication design are disciplines in which one exercises industrial design, in the form of product development profiling and not least brand construction. Our design effort should help promote design as a tool to increase profitability in Norwegian business. One must therefore focus on how design can strengthen Norwegian business in general and not on the design industry as such, as I was in my first post. Nutritional design is often defined as one of many cultural industries, as understanding society and culture and aesthetics are key elements. There is therefore ongoing contact between the Ministry of Industry and Trade and the Ministry of Church and Culture and between the Norwegian Design Council on the one hand and Norwegian Form on the other, even though we mostly work with different things, for different purposes. In our work on the design package, we have also started a dialogue with the Ministry of Agriculture and Food to look at the possibility of integrating design more strongly into programmes related to the value creation of food and wood. We are also working to draw more attention to design as a – we should call it – competitive tool in the tourism industry, and not least in Norway’s profilings. A third industry we want to connect more closely to the design bet, is, as I also pointed out in the main post, the maritime industry. It is not enough to highlight positive singles, but I would like to mention again Ulstein’s fascinating anchor handling vessel, which was named after the year’s technology show in 2005. These are good examples to build on. It shows that good design provides profitability, competitiveness and competitiveness. This is something that is important to bet on and that will help to strengthen Norwegian business in general.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-04.ana.ud102e243	In business policy, it must be a clear objective for several enterprises to use industrial design as a process tool in the development of new products and services. It's like, among other things, create innovation. Design is about both culture and nutrition. It is important to have an understanding of the value of design and brand construction as a competitive factor. Design returns result. It creates enthusiasm, and it gives us an identity. Design products differ from low-priced products and thus become interesting in the competitive market as well. Design is currently being used within a very large number of areas. This way, Norwegian design becomes part of society's development. A recent investigation, also referred to by the Council of State, shows that eight out of ten Norwegian company managers believe that the use of design contributes to better profitability. Furthermore, the study shows that half of the companies have reported an increase in the use of design over the last four years. This tells me that the business community considers commercial design to be important and an important competitive factor. The government declared last year that Norway should be the official year of design in 2005. Then it's important that business knows how to use design in the right way, not least to use design skills to increase profitability. This government has understood. That's why this area is also listed in the Soria Moria declaration as an important area. The Council of State also confirmed the importance of this through its contribution today. Good and functional design creates both enthusiasm and identity, as I said. In addition to the attention given to design, professional design processes also create new possibilities. I want to pull out the furniture industry. Thus, in 2003, there was a commitment to design, market development and technological development, because one saw a negative development in the industry; exports fell after rising throughout the 1990s. The project is planned to be completed in 2006, and as far as I know, it will not take a position on whether or not to extend the investment in this area. So far, one can well conclude that this project has been positive for the furniture industry. I expect the Ministry and the Council of State to decide within a reasonable short time whether the project will continue. There is cross-political agreement that design is important, and of course we want to follow it up with good political instruments. A strong increase in the 2006 budget budget budget of the Design Council is evidence that the Norwegian Design Council is an important instrument for making use of more nutrition-right designs in Norwegian business. I look forward to the alert design package to which the Council of State referred. We're good in this country. We should be optimistic, but the goal must always be that we should be even better.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-04.ana.ud102e264	The interpellant addresses an important question. But the question is whether the starting point for the debate is correct and good enough. We all agree that design is an essential element for business to succeed and for our companies to survive in international competition. Design shapes the products, it makes the products exciting and inviting, and it creates feelings and reactions that are both positive and negative. Design is simply one of the main reasons why we, as consumers or responsible for procurement in the public or private sectors, buy the product. When a product that we already have changes design, but not functionality, we acquire the product again because we like the new design. This shows how important design is for the choices we make as consumers. When I initially criticised the interpellant for taking a wrong starting point from the interpellation, it is because there is an emphasis on what public schemes can do to strengthen Norwegian design. The Government shall carry out an industrial design package. The question is what should be included in such a package and where the public is involved in such a strategy. We would warn against creating a national design plan that takes into account how Norwegian design should be and how Norwegian companies should work with design. For it is an area belonging to the private sphere, which constitutes the fundamental element of competition between enterprises, it is the design and design of the product. Public instruments or advice cannot enter and take this role from companies or touch on this element of fundamental competition between enterprises. Then we will take from the companies one of the most basic elements that they can use in competition. We know that the sitting government wants to go actively into and regulate business in all sorts of imaginable ways. Will a national design strategy now be new within the regulatory framework? There's a reason to ask if we really need a nutrient-oriented design package. The industry is very concerned with design and uses it as one of its main competitive instruments. We see this every day by introducing new products to the market. Design meets us directly in all the choices that consumers make. The business sector is concerned with design and uses design for, among others. to compete with each other. What the public can contribute to are funds for research and development, either through the Research Council, Innovation Norway or through funds of seed resources. Design may be an important element that can trigger such public funding, but the development of design will take place in each enterprise or in cooperation between enterprises that want to find solutions to a common challenge. Providing training in design is also important. Business already uses design as a strategic tool in their daily efforts to consolidate their position in the market. In my opinion, the interpellant points to a number of obvious links in terms of the relationship between design, innovation and sales of products in the market. As the Council of State said in its article, Design pays off. Several speakers have pointed out that studies show that business leaders – eight out of ten – believe that design is important for profitability. The government has also now announced that they would launch a design package before the summer break. I had thought that the government would use this interpellation debate to give some clearer signals about what such a design package should contain, and that perhaps this debate would have been used to launch the package. State councils and interpellant points to clear examples of business using design in their work today. Design needs to be developed on business premises. After the inter-pellant's articles and the Council of State's answers, I'm not much wiser in relation to what the Government will do in the design field. In my opinion, there are a number of naturalities that have been mentioned, without significant content. I will also refer to the chronicle of the Council of State in the nation today, which also confirms this.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-04.ana.ud102e296	Design has been an important part of Norwegian business in the past, and it has been a very important part of the work done to increase competitiveness. For the last four years, the use of design, as the representative Uppebøen Hansen said, has increased considerably. This coincides with something else positive, i.e. that over the last four years, we have managed to reverse the generally negative development in Norwegian business. And very much goes very well in Norwegian business today. It would be easy to say that the politicians are going to have all the credit for this, because it will be far from true. We've had an international boom. We have had good oil prices and strong growth in oil-related industries, but at the same time there is no need to hide that the policy that has been pursued in Norway in recent years has been strongly involved in the fact that industry has had the opportunity to take advantage of these good opportunities that economic and oil prices have given. When, among others: the interpellant talks about the importance of an active industrial policy and an innovation and innovation policy, it is a vision that, of course, Right fully shares. But what we've seen so far from the new active industrial policy for innovation and innovation is nothing but a direct cut in the promises of what the centre-right government proposed. Research and development have been curtailed, cut to several other areas within the industrial right sector, billions of credits, which are also intended to stimulate innovation, innovation and initial investment in machinery and equipment. If you want to say something positive – and you should always do it – then it's that the government doesn't cut the exact entry that applies to the Design Council. The increase mentioned by the Council of State was the previous government that proposed, and that era should be broken in all the new government and the majority of the population, that it was not reversed, but that we got a very great increase in the rewards of the Norwegian Design Council. And it's important, even though I'm completely in agreement with the representative of Kielland Asmyhr, who said in the previous article that we have to be careful so we don't monopolize the work done in Norwegian design, through the Design Council, even if they do a very important job. Most of the things that have been mentioned today are totally self-said things, to which I can unquestionably join. There has been a great deal of emphasis on product design, a little less weight, perhaps, on what is even more in the wind, which is even more important for future developments, namely what is called an interaction design, that is, the dialogue that must exist between technology and human beings, which is being taught in Norway today, and of which Norwegian companies are increasingly benefiting. It is commendable that the interpellant takes this up with design, but like the previous speaker, I'm a little surprised that there's nothing more concrete than that a lot of time tells me that design has gone well in the last four years, that this is important, and that we have to keep doing this. If there's a package that's the solution, I shouldn't have said, because as the previous speaker said, and to which I'm going to end up entirely, it's the content of any package that will mean something. And the content needs to be stimulated by single companies and organisations to carry on the great and important work they are doing to get Norwegian design even more in the future and even better integrated into product development and production in Norwegian companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-04.ana.ud102e311	This interpellation debate is about an important topic, but it is hardly particularly political controversial, and it is no disadvantage. When eight out of ten Norwegian business leaders think that the use of design gives better profitability, and when half of the companies have increased the use of design over the last four years, I believe that this is not just a fashion or a variety of flock mentality; I actually believe that it comes from the fact that design is important, and that design provides opportunities. Previously we talked about design, but the new concept of design is more extensive, and it includes both the process of defining the product’s appearance and the result of this process. And even though the aesthetic design is considered to be the essential, the concept of “industrial design” covers a complex cooperation process that includes both marketing expertise, graphic design, technical design and product development. There may be a lot of reasons why we've got this development. An increased standard of living has provided opportunities for increasing emphasis on individuality, while at the same time the fashion aspect has been part of almost all human relationships, in virtually all walks of life. Furthermore, we experience a number of product requirements, such as simple and inexpensive maintenance, the product being efficient and user-friendly, it must be environmentally friendly, but it must also be easy to get rid of when the product has reached its end-of-life. We have many examples of successful companies that have invested in design. One example is Sunnmøre: Stokke AS, among others. Tripp Trapp chair, Sleepi bed and Stokke Xplory. The Minister of Economic Affairs was several times in the maritime industry, and I myself have been visiting companies that draw on nature's own design when designing hulls and propulsion mechanisms. They then have taken the starting point of nature itself, e.g. fish and seabird. This is very interesting, and there have been large savings in, among other things. fuel costs. The Christian People's Party is positive that the Government will create a proprietary design package. We believe that it is a timely measure, and this may be a push towards the necessary enhancement of competence and further perfection to both strengthen and develop Norway's status as a high-tech competence nation, in other words, to pass on a solid legacy from the previous government. In the government's work on a strategy for the use of design as an innovative tool in industrial policy, we in the Christian People's Party will provide three Councils with advice. First, the strategy must contain a reference to the good examples, because it is that positive experience is always a good starting point. Secondly, there should be good matchpoints where product developers and designers can be stuck to be involved in interaction and interaction. It's a good investment. Thirdly, the schools should be included. Our encouragement is: Lat technology design becomes a theme in the schools as well. Let design become an element of partnership agreements between enterprise and school, and make sure that design is integrated into the student companies. A targeted focus on nutrition design can provide very valuable growth and development impulses for Norwegian business. But if this is to be closed, the investment must be anchored in close cooperation with the business community. From the Christian People's Party's side, we will support all good and sensible measures in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-04.ana.ud102e328	Good design is becoming more and more important to us human beings in all contexts, and I think there are many reasons for it. I think it has to do with a stressful everyday life and the need for balance and tranquillity and good things to put an eye on. We're looking for experiences, and we're looking for that in a product, and we can afford to both buy experiences and buy good things to look at. Besides, good design gives of course better and more functional product, product that is good both to use and to look at. Good design has been said very much about here. It has also been said that it gives added value to the product. It is also pointed out to both Norwegian and international investigations, so I will not take that up again. But good design is a strategic tool that improves operating performance and increases innovation and gives higher export share. It is clear that for Norway, which has a competition problem because we are high in wages, good design is also the advantage that can make our products still pay. A major objective of all competitive industries must be to develop products with characteristics that distinguish them positively from their competitors and that develop over time to become branded. This requires both long-term investment and long-term capital. That is why we need to look at design in conjunction with other policy instruments that we, as politicians, can be involved in, for example. tax incentives to invest in new businesses also for entrepreneurs. In addition, it is necessary to focus on the development of modern technologies. Relatively cheap labour and high challenge, which will be used to implement new technologies and designs, and communication, distribution and logistics – all of this we need to see in context. Therefore, we need closer cooperation between business, education and the R & D environment. It is the human capital in the form of labour and competence that forms the major part of our national wealth here in the country. In order for Norway to become one of the world's most innovative countries, as we have as our goal, we must manage and develop the human resource and increase our value creation by investing in knowledge, technology and design. That is why I agree very much with the representative of Ingebrigig Sørfonn when he points out that this must enter the school. Closer cooperation between schools and businesses is needed. The students have to experience the real life as they go to school. I thought it was free from the interpellant to say that, unlike the previous government, this government is not afraid to bet on success in Norwegian business. I would like to remind you that it was the Bondevik II Government that made the proposal for an increase to the Design Council, and I would also like to remind you that a holistic innovation policy was put forward precisely to create better conditions for innovation as a driving force for value creation. It's great that the current government supports the increase that was set aside for design. Only the Progress Party did not want this extra effort during its budgetary procedure. Although the Left agrees with the Progress Party that good design must be created in the research environment and in the companies, we are not at all convinced that as politicians we do not have the opportunity to give space to the companies. We see that it is especially small and medium-sized enterprises that often have problems developing good design. Then it's important to do the work of the Norwegian Design Council in Innovation Norway to convey designers and encourage good design also for those who can't afford to keep it in the middle. So now the Minister of Industry says he's going to bet on a design package, and he's naming different industries that come in that package. I'm glad he brought forward maritime nutrition, which is important in our area. But furniture I didn't hear that he said anything about it. I am curious about what he answers to Mr. Hansen's question about the further installation of furniture, and whether this is part of the design package. It would have been a good design here, both before the maritime industry and on furniture coming from Møre and Romsdal. I hope furniture becomes part of the package.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-04.ana.ud102e343	First, I would like to thank the representative, Gunvor Eldegard, for having notified the Minister of Industry of this interpellation. Design is a relatively young subject in Norway, and if we compare ourselves with other Nordic countries, many will think that we are a relatively small design nation. Nevertheless, we have had a positive development in Norwegian design in the last 20 years, both in terms of education and recognition of the importance of the design subject, and thus an initial public investment in design. We now see more young Norwegian designers in different areas being noticed in international contexts. But we have a good deal left before we can say that the design subject's potential is fully exploited. That is why I am pleased with the Minister of Industry's announcement that there will be an industrial design package in this spring. So what's design? Most people do have a sense of design, of giving shape to some product. However, the concept of design is a specific type of design that includes competence, process and finished product. Overall, we can look at design from four main perspectives: cost-effective functional, user-friendly, aesthetic identity building There are many specialisation areas in design. Product design can be everything from furniture and cars to lamps, knives and coffee funnels, while the communication designer’s task is to find the visual expression that best communicates the message and characteristics of a product. Often, graphic design is used in such a context. And the new technological opportunities have increased the need for interaction designers, i.e. designers developing user-friendly solutions in digital and interactive media. The design subject can be said in many ways to respond to the needs of modern people for good, user-friendly and simple solutions to the different products and services we depend on in a hectic everyday life. At the same time, visual – aesthetic – plays an increasingly important role in our lives. This should mean that more and more companies, businesses and public enterprises are seeing the importance of using the competence of designers. There's a lot of evidence that that's the case. The study conducted by the Norwegian Design Council, to which many have pointed out, shows that more than 80 pst. by companies using design and that many believe that there is a link between investment in design and profitability. A good example of this is the lighting manufacturer Glamox, who, after consciously focusing on product development and design, experienced a significant improvement in performance. Fishery operators also report that design has benefited well. As the fish food business Lofotproduct replaced the old product packaging with new, designed and attractive packaging, sales actually increased by 100 pst. Pretty soon. The fish food was the same, it was just refurbished, with care and style. A strong commitment to design must also mean that we provide good educational opportunities in the field. In the Norwegian Design Council's survey, approx. 25 pst. of the companies asked that they were using designers without higher education, while approx. 20 pst. did not know if the designers they cooperated with had a high level of education. This would indicate that you need to focus more on improving educational opportunities, both for those who work in the design field and for those who want to take an education in this field. Design education at university and higher education level may include, inter alia: are taken at NTNU in Trondheim and the School of Architecture and Design in Oslo, as well as at a number of other colleges. Common to these is that they're all in South Norway. If we look at where the designers live and work, the statistics show that only 1 pst. the country's graphic designers live in the northern part of the country. In other design areas, the percentage is likely to be even smaller in the north, compared to what is the case in the south of the country. In view of the role that North Norway will play in the development of business within, for example: export-oriented industries such as fisheries, aquaculture and petroleum products, and not least in the sphere of travel, would be of the utmost importance for design to become an important subject at universities and higher education institutions also in the north. In fact, the University of Tromsø has recently developed a project description for a three-year Bachelor's degree in graphic design – an education that can be an important contribution to providing the Nordic business community with the trained designers it will need. There are many who argue, not without a certain right, that it was the Olympic games at Lillehammer in 1994 that first put design on the map for people here in the country. Maybe we need such big events from time to time, so that we really get the big visual promise for our public spaces, which we'll probably need.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-04.ana.ud102e378	This debate actually shows that there are very many parties that are concerned with design, and that there is, at least almost, cross-political unity around this topic. I'm very happy about that. I am very pleased with the statement we have received from the department, which shows that the department is doing well with the design package, and I look forward to having it presented before the summer holiday. When I sat here and listened to the articles, I heard that most people are concerned about design and look at design as a competitive advantage and something that we in Norway can use and learn from. I just want to make a comment to the representative from the Progress Party: Of course, it's not the way for the public to determine the design of the products. That's the business, of course. But sometimes it may be good to have tools in addition, and as this designer who has made contact with me, said: TaxFUNN is so important, for this is a tool that makes companies actually dare to invest in such things as design. So that's what I think is very important. I'm very pleased with Right's comments here, they also have views that design should be an important thing for us. The Christian People's Party was very positive, and I think what the Christian People's Party said about including the schools and the students' businesses in the design work is very important and a very positive input, which at least I want to include in the work. And the left says we should bet on the small businesses. I agree with that, because they need it as much as anyone. I called Asono, who had designed this i-poden. It's a little business here in Oslo, so it's actually a lot of small businesses that are investing in design. I would like to thank everyone for their contributions, which I would like to have included in my work. We're some -- most of us are some of us in Norway that we can't get the cheapest, but we can get the best, and where we can get the best, we bet on design.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-04.ana.ud102e387	I would first of all like to thank you for a good debate, and once again thank you for the initiative from the inter-pellant to discuss a matter that is important for the competitiveness of Norwegian business. In reality, there is a broad consensus that design is important, that it is important to invest in design and to facilitate the use of design by Norwegian businesses to increase competitiveness and profitability. But even if you agree that it is important to bet, it is very important to make sure that you have a majority for the effort you want to contribute to. That was the dilemma of the previous government. One had ambitions, as the representative Løvik pointed out, to bet on design, but one had a problem because the parliamentary basis for that effort was not present. Looking at budgetary procedures over time, it is that the Progress Party has just cut its focus on design. I guess that's the problem of the previous government. We have good experience with design in Norwegian business, but the most important thing is what the representative Tove Karoline Knutsen pointed out that we have a good deal again. I think that's the essence. We have to put the whole country into use, and then we have to deliberately invest in design to integrate this into further work. The representative Upbeøen Hansen challenged me in relation to the Innovation Furniture and the work done there, the project that started in autumn 2003 and is expected to end this year. This work has not used insignificant resources, which are run through Innovation Norway and participating enterprises together with NHO, LO and Norsk Treindustrie Arbeiterverband. In total, public and private investment is more than 100 million. kr. There have been ongoing evaluations and feedback is positive. Whether we're going to go further on this project, we're going to get back to it. The annual programming appropriations for Innovation Norway will be managed, but there is no doubt that the participating companies, 12 in total, have given feedback that this is positive. So we're going to get back to just that. The representative of Løvik mentioned a lack of investment. I just want to show that this government has increased funding for research, innovation and innovation by over half a billion dollars from 2005 to 2006. We've increased the appropriations in a number of other areas, but the essence is that it's important to have a majority for the efforts we want to make.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-04.ana.ud102e398	Case No. So 1 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-04.ana.ud102e416	Since the late 1970s, we have seen in Oslo that what was at the beginning were youth gangs fighting against each other has gradually become gangs who are engaged in ever-increasing crime in the form of very serious violence, drug abuse, extortion, fraud, rancidity, torpedoing, drug trafficking, and even demands for protection from those who operate, for example. business in immigrant communities in Oslo. The most famous of these numbers are the A- and B- times, as they're called, but they're also related groups, for example. a group called the Furuset thread, which has become more topical lately. It has focused in particular on the extreme acts of violence. It is about acts of return, about acts of revenge that have gone on all the way back to, for example. The killing of Rome in 1988, in turn and in order, and in which this is reinforced by the traditions of revenge and honour that exist in some of these minority communities. We saw such a serious shooting episode up at the Furuset Center this weekend, which was the result of a serious violent episode a few weeks earlier in Sandvika in Bærum. Other well-mentioned episodes of such extreme violence in recent years, and several of them have been killed, are the Sandaker killing, the Hausmannsgate shooting incident, the Arendal murder fire, several Stovner shootings, the Gardermoen shooting in 2003, etc. The fact that these gangs have existed and evolved for 25–30 years and become stronger, better organised and more professional has serious adverse effects on the entire community. It is important for the youth community because it can lead to young people thinking that it is possible to live in this way, to live in crime, to exist and build a life in such a mafia environment. It spreads a violent mentality wider in society. It spreads a culture of violence, where there is a danger that young people are stimulated to believe that being tough is wearing knives and other weapons to protect themselves, to assert themselves, and to resemble those that make up the hardest core of these gangs. There has been a disturbing development. The police force's number for weapons seizures in Oslo per year. 1 May this year shows that 451 weapons have been seized in the first four months. Some of the weapons seized by these gangs are machine guns and calachnikovers. It is completely strange for us to operate with such weapons in Oslo, Norway. In all last year, 675 weapons were seized — in 12 months’ time — so 451 weapons of four months are a huge increase. This may indicate a number of factors, such as: that the police are making a strong and good effort, but it also says that there are too many weapons in circulation. It's known that these gangs have a background in the immigrant environment, mainly in Oslo, and that's why they're most plagued by them. The vast majority of immigrants are law-abiding people who strongly want society to clean up these gangs. A lot of people have come to me about it. They are concerned that the youth should view the gangs as ideals and be involved in these environments, and they are concerned about the violence and insecurity created in parts of the immigrant communities and their youth environments. As I mentioned, the police are still reporting that protection money is being demanded from shops and similar businesses. This creates an insecurity that we cannot live with. It also creates insecurity among the Nordics, because in many of the most serious violence episodes we have here in the country, they are constantly talking about this with a dark background, that they originate from these gangs, which come back from immigrant environments. One of the most important measures to create more trust between the different populations in Norway and more security in the immigrant communities, one of the most important measures for inclusion, which the Government considers to be a main task, is to roll up these gangs and put them under a different pressure from today. They're organized in a very hard and professional way. They're hard to get into, because, after what the police say, they have internal cores of 20-40 people who carry out very little themselves, but who have groups of recruits in outer circles who don't know everyone in the inner core, but who have contacts, and who do the job itself. They keep weapons, they keep and trade drugs, they do acts of violence on order, etc. As far as recruitment is concerned, we have seen reports in Today's Business that some of these frequencies, for example. have property complexes in Brazil where they bring with them young people who get a scheme that makes them owe something and set up in the next round. And those who are drawn into this are eventually given some kind of luxury life that there is a danger that young people from other youth environments can admire. There is a risk of a broad recruitment based on the kind of false ideals being created in some environments. We don't know the number, but the police say it's related to the two most famous gangs, the A-tang and the B-tang, could be up to 200 people, maybe fewer, maybe more, than the inner cores. Assuming I've received, there are up to 3,000 people involved in organized crime in Oslo, where these crowds are key points, and that 80-90 pst. the origins of organised crime in Norway are in Oslo. But it's important to realize that these gangs are here all over the East and beyond. They have tournaments and hits in the Agder counties and in Rogaland, cf. The murder fire I mentioned in Arendal. Eastfold and Westfold have also had a number of episodes. What can be done? These threads are, as I said, hard to roll up. They also have a hard regime in the way that there are very strong threats to those who might imagine witnessing and talking to the police, and they have been able to put these threats into life. This is a situation we can't live with anymore. I believe that a long-lasting action is needed to roll up these mobs. We cannot accept that they will continue to exist and that people will see it. The police say they know who make up these inner cores, but they have a hard time getting enough on them because it requires long-term monitoring, testing and large resources. When President Musharraf of Pakistan was in Norway, it was known that the central people of the A-gang and the B-gang were present. They would thus show that they were among the respected and known persons in the Pakistani environment. This shows that it has gone too far. We haven't had enough ability to take them. These inner cores must be followed up by a number of methods to detect those that are really behind them. Some people in the outside world have been taken so far, and I hope we can get more effective measures. As I said, this does not only affect Oslo, so it is important to have strong cooperation with all the other affected police districts. I repeat that this is an unacceptable situation for the people of Oslo and other parts of the country, and I would like to ask the Minister of Justice how he assesses this, and what action he might take.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-04.ana.ud102e442	It is a particularly important interpellation that travels, and I am pleased with the openness that the interpellation expresses, namely, to invite first of all to a debate on how we evaluate the situation, and then have the opportunity to come up with some sketches and strategies in relation to how to deal with development. At the outset, I would like to say that while in many areas of the police districts in the whole country we see that some crime is actually on the decline, it is in the area that the interpellant here points to, unfortunately, not the same development. This gives cause for concern, especially for the ring-fences pointed out by the interpellant – that this is not only an Oslo phenomenon, but also has a major impact on the whole country – but also because the type of crime committed is so serious that it is primarily both to prevent and, when it has happened, to react quickly. That's why I want to make it clear that the government looks as serious as the representative Bøhler on the serious crime that this type of gang is facing. The recruitment of young people from both minority and ethnic Norwegian environments is different. To the extent that these relate to international organised crime — and they often do — this is also a serious issue among the gangs. Organised crime confronts society with major challenges both nationally and internationally and represents a serious threat. Organized criminal environments tend to operate in several areas and engage in several types of illegal activity. This also provides the basis for rivalry between the frequency of control over activities, which may result in the use of violence among the frequency groups. The Police Directorate has prepared a report on organised crime and its proposals for action are followed up in cooperation with the National Attorney in cases where the issue concerns the prosecution authority. I have been informed from the Oslo Police District that there are in particular three groups where members have minority backgrounds, who are involved in serious and organised crime, among others. those referred to in the media as the A-gang and the B-gang. In particular, the police characterise a number of members of the A gang as well-established actors in the criminal underworld. They engage in illegal activities in conjunction with legal activities and often act in a way that can be called professional in this context. The police are aware that the gangs cooperate with a number of known criminal actors and with networks in Norway and abroad. It is also known that they both stay physically and partly transfer sums of money to and invest abroad. I'll come back to it. The propensity of people to use violence has been described in detail in the media in the past. The police express concern that tensions between these gangs can also lead to increased use of weapons, as we have seen in recent years. Over the years, the police have sought to combat and prevent recriminal crime in Oslo. However, the complexity and diversity of criminal activity are a resource-intensive challenge. Despite the fact that a number of gang members are currently in prison for various crimes, this does not seem to limit the criminal activity of gangs to the extent that police and prosecution authorities had hoped. So, you're facing a very worrying recruitment. I have been informed that the Oslo police have established a long-term strategy to combat established gangs and prevent the emergence of new gangs and new recruiting. As part of this strategy, Oslo police districts are now working on several fronts. The emphasis here is on a wide-ranging survey of the communities involved, their composition and functioning, so that they can be reviewed. At the same time, efforts are being made to further develop multidisciplinary cooperation between public authorities, such as tax authorities, social affairs, child protection, prison services and research environments. Furthermore, it is necessary to have a proper prioritisation of human resources and criminal proceedings. Now it is not up to me, as Minister of Justice, to enter into the operational responsibility to combat recriminalism, but it is up to the Chief of Police to make a priority on the basis of budgetary frameworks and in accordance with political signals – otherwise from corruption and government – that should be able to reduce this type of undesirable behaviour. In this way, it is important that political authorities stress that this type of crime needs to be combated, which this interpellence debate is likely to do strongly. In this context, I would like to mention that in 2004, the Police Directorate took the initiative through Project Organized Crime to focus more on combating this type of crime. A nationwide survey of organised crime has been carried out in Norway. Both the Police Directorate and the National Attorney agree that the monitoring report should be followed up through a systematic and methodological collection of relevant information, in order to ensure coordinated follow-up work, including tactical and operational recommendations and proposals for priorities and actions. Furthermore, it is necessary that both the police, the prosecution authority and the courts have a high level of competence to combat this type of crime effectively. The development and increased use of DNA tests could also strengthen the fight against crime carried out by the gangs, as the Storting is aware that the Government has been working. In my opinion, the fight against organised crime has been better organised in recent years, including the following: through the work of the previous government, in particular through the organisation of CATCH. Cooperation between police, prosecution authorities and other relevant bodies has been extended. Kripos has been given more impact power, as the previous CATCH has been added to it. In addition, the Oslo police district has a separate section which has as its primary task the prevention and investigation of this type of crime. I would also like to point out that there is room for voluntary efforts to prevent recruitment to the gangs. Here I would like to point to the project of streeteering that Red Cross is carrying out in cooperation with the Conflict Council in Oslo and Akershus. The Municipality of Oslo has granted money for this. Let me also underline that there is no doubt that these gangs are involved in very serious crime. This is a challenge both for the security of citizens and for the fight against crime by the police. I am convinced that the police are working deliberately to prevent and combat the criminal activities of the gangs. However, it is a significant challenge to be able to gain control of them, all the time this is to a large extent closed environments for which it is difficult to obtain sufficient knowledge. However, I have faith in what the representative of Bohemia was also partly involved in, the witness protection programme under development can be of considerable help in getting more knowledge of this crime, and simply get witnesses to dry up and talk when they know at the same time that they are protected. Then I would also like to say that the background that the Government wanted to strengthen the Oslo Police District budget by 6 million at the previous budgetary round. kr, was just that one should be more active, especially in relation to the worst, those who go again, and those who are often in these bands. I have received feedback from the police that just a lot of the means that came are being used to strengthen the repeater projects, so that we can make sure that these people, when they are being apprehended, are as out of circulation as possible, in the sense that they quickly come into custody, get judgment and also quickly come into atonement, without having to stand in a reconciliation queue. I think it's absolutely crucial if we're to be able to crack just these environments. I also point out that new methods have been developed to be able to operate both telephone interception and, in the most serious cases, space interception, which is certainly important that Oslo police districts and others now get active use, and as I know there is a lot of activity going on around. The government works as it is also known to liquidate the settlement queues in Norway. We have the ambition to do that, and I think it's definitely important to be able to react faster. Before the summer, we will also produce a consultation note on speeding up criminal proceedings, which I believe is certainly important, so that these are taken quickly. In addition, there is a regulation to the Arms Act, where I believe that the Government has good reason, precisely in the light of the situation in Oslo, to tighten up the rules on weapon and knife use and to look at the possibilities of going one step further than the situation we've had, in relation to several provisions of the regulation. I would also like to point out that it is certainly important now to put in place measures that can affect the economic flow of these environments. There has been a flow of money laundering messages to Ecokrim after we got a new law that required both financial institutions, lawyers and others to report suspicious transactions. One of the reasons why the government chose to strengthen the Ecocrime Whitewashing Unit with eleven new posts from the current fiscal year was that we should not just be there with a legal text, but that we should become more operational to investigate what is behind these messages. In this respect, I would also like to mention that I want to take the initiative to review the rules of detention in the criminal justice court and to see whether they work well enough where you see especially young people being over wealth, whether it's a black BMW or whatever, without being able to document anything about where they've got that money, whether there's a greater chance of withdrawing than what you're actually doing today, and whether there's a need for legislative changes. I will take this initiative, along with a number of other prevention measures that I have just mentioned. But we will come back with further measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-04.ana.ud102e479	I thank the Minister of Justice for a very good and comprehensive answer. There are three or four points I would like to comment on. One applies to new methods in relation to weapons seizures. The Minister of Justice said that he wanted to look at the legislation here, look at how to tighten up. I think what you've started this year, with the increased seizure of weapons, where the police have had more action in key areas in relation to the danger of people walking with guns, is a very positive move that should be stepped up further in the environments where we know these gang members are moving. When you take people with as serious weapons as machine guns, kalazhnikover, etc. in Oslo, it's about having strict enough responses. This applies both to the level of the fine, which I believe has been in the range of NOK 6000 to NOK 8 000, and that applies when you are taken for the second time with such weapons. Then I would say – without the Storting having anything to do with it – that you also have to look at prison and stronger reactions to use and keep that kind of weapon. So I hope that the action-oriented business against these environments that have such weapons, which is part of the core of these crowds, gets intensified, because then you'll get close to them. I think the signal that the Minister of Justice gave about the withdrawal from values was very positive, because it's obvious that these people are going around and are pioneering with difficult values that it's impossible to explain where they've come from. I would also like to say to the Minister of Justice about the Oslo Police resources, that it was positive that the government increased by $6 million. kr in the autumn. But the budget that the Bondevik government had put forward before it meant a bigger cut, so that according to the Oslo police, they have a much tighter operating budget in 2006 than in 2005. They say they have to run tighter in the order of 20-25 million. kr. It is then clear that this activity is also being affected, so it is important to look at it further in relation to future budgets. I hope the signals given by the Minister of Justice lead to a more comprehensive, coordinated, action-oriented, long-term response to these environments, and that many of the elements mentioned by the Minister of Justice can be brought together to form such a plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-04.ana.ud102e492	I fully agree with the interpellant that we need coordination, we need long-term action, and that effort also needs to be of some strength. It really needs to be very strong. But I believe that they grabbed what the previous government did in relation to, among other things, organised crime, and what has been done on Kripos, contributes to such coordination, while Oslo police districts are now organising this work in a way that we expect to have an effect, as the interpellant also wants. But it is important that we maintain a political searchlight on this, and I am convinced that here we need to take legal action and not just think about appropriations for the Oslo police district. We also have to bring that with us. As for the actions that have been related to weapons, I have to say that there is an action I welcome, and as I believe is a very correct strategy from the Oslo Police District. Regardless of whether you get hit and get hold of weapons when doing such actions, they have a major preventive effect. It also contributes to the detection of other types of crime that are not necessarily as often related or equally serious, and it also contributes to fulfilling the Storting's intention to seek a close police force where criminal acts are committed, where there is a risk that criminal acts may occur. So the knife and weapon operations the police have now had are something the government wants and will stimulate the police to continue, not only here in Oslo, but also elsewhere. I would like to stress that the review we now have of the weapons regulations, which the Ministry will not long conclude, will give us the opportunity to show that we have an approximate zero tolerance in carrying weapons and knives in public spaces without any complete reason. There is also the question of criminal sanctions in relation to those that are taken, whether it is the first time or the second time, as the interpellant was about. I am of the opinion that the review we are now going to have in connection with new special criminal law should pay particular attention to crimes of this nature to see if we react strictly enough in these cases. It gives us a good opportunity to take that review the interpellant wants. Then I want to point to a relationship that the interpellant was also in, and that is crucial. We do not solve these problems just by thinking about police and criminal law measures. We are totally dependent on having very active prevention here in Oslo, too, to prevent new recruitment to these environments and to offer other activities to the young people who are entering these gangs. There is the question of local services — school, education and leisure — and the question of an active drug policy is fully addressed. And there I invite all the parties in Stortinget to be active.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-04.ana.ud102e501	The representative of Boehler addresses a major challenge in the Norwegian community: What can we do with gangs operating outside of Norwegian law? This is a complex and very complex problem. It has biases to organised crime both at home and abroad. Organised crime poses major challenges to society and represents a serious threat. I think it's very important that we focus on prevention and jobs to stop recruitment to these environments. The police have programmes working directly against these environments and prevention projects to stop recruitment from minority communities and from ethnic Norwegian environments. Other organisations also work on this, such as the ‘WayBack’ organisation. ‘WayBack’ jobs for life after settlement, it works actively against prisons and recruits Pakistani youth who may be exposed to bad company when they come out again. Youths must break with old environments and with bad friends. In ‘WayBack’, young people are given the chance to participate in positive leisure activities, such as: cricket, which is the national sport in Pakistan. This work has already produced good results. The thread problem in Oslo has been actively addressed for many years. There are some closed environments, which makes it very time- and resource-consuming to gain control of them. In order to combat tougher and better organised criminals, new methods need to be put in place and closer international and national cooperation structures need to be developed. I have great faith that it is right that the police are committed to multidisciplinary cooperation between public agencies such as tax authorities, child protection, social affairs, research environments and prison services, in particular as regards money laundering and the possible withdrawal of values, as economic gain is the main motivation for the activities of these gangs. Increased use of DNA tests will also be a tool to overcome this type of crime. The government of Stoltenberg II's emphasis on having good Community solutions really helps prevent crime. Furthermore, the Government’s effort to cut down the soot queues and improve the content of the soot will help reduce the risk of recurrences. The core of our criminal policy is to prevent better, detect and clarify more and respond and rehabilitate more effectively. It is particularly important to focus on young offenders in order to prevent them from continuing a criminal career. It has to react quickly to the first-time offenders. This is an integral part of criminal policy, which I am sure is also involved in combating the problem of Bohemian travel.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-04.ana.ud102e524	It's a very important matter the interpellant takes up here today, and the Progress Party is very happy that this issue is addressed by a member of one of the government parties. I'm sure a lot of people remember the horror of the election last year because of the election brochure of the Advancement Party, which got a lot of attention. Both the press and some of our political opponents used every opportunity to criticize this brochure where one of the main headlines was that ‘the ruler was of foreign origin’. It is therefore gratifying that there has been an interpellant interpellant that in the last 20–25 years, many serious criminal acts related to different gangs, such as the A gang and the B gang, have been committed and that a large number of members have come from minority communities. The interpellant travels basically two important questions that I will come back to. In terms of recrimination, it is not only in Oslo that one sees the problems, but also other places in the country, as the interpellant pointed out. In this context, it is essential to focus on the right integration and follow-up of these environments. Police must have the resources needed to combat these gangs, which are becoming more and more violent as time passes. The police must have a conscious strategy and follow-up to these. One must focus on increasing police competence in terms of immigrants and cultural differences. No one has earned that foreigners and immigrants are overrepresented in such statistics, at least the law-abiding immigrants here in the country. Many of these gang members are also unknown to the police. They're repeaters in the system, and they're doing a lot of everyday crime in the cityscape. That is why it is very important to focus on the repetitions of the criminal system, so that they are punished as deserved. It is especially important to turn down and follow up on those who perform criminal acts for the first time. We see that very many of the young people with a minority background commit first-time crime in order to fit in and show up for the rest of the world. Now it's not going to stick under the chair that the problem that the interpellant brings up is special for Oslo. Oslo has special challenges, not just as the capital of the country, but as the drug capital and the main seat for large parts of the heavy organised crime. Whether we like it or not, there's resources the police need to deal with these gang environments and organized crime. The Progress Party has taken this inward and increased in its budget the appropriations for the Oslo Police much more than the Stoltenberg Government. I'm going to give the interpellant justice: the Oslo Police have got reduced revenues with the Stoltenberg government, but the Stoltenberg government is going to have to give more than the Bondevik II government did in its budget. The interpellant also addresses another important issue: does society have the capacity to overcome organised crime? What is fundamentally remarkable is that a member of the Workers' Party takes this up here in the Storting, when the famous Soria Moria Declaration does not mention organized crime in a single word. The development we see in the crime scene here in the country requires increased efforts and preparedness for organised crime. Today, the police are not getting rid of organized crime because they lack methods and resources. The police need to take far stronger measures to deal with the growing organised crime. In recent years, we have had more examples of crime getting rougher and rougher and less respect for human life. Police must have easier access to armoured vehicles, weapons and surveillance equipment in order to better meet the gangs on their side of the track. I would once again like to thank the interpellant for putting this important matter on the agenda here in Stortinget. I would recommend the interpellant over the next few months to work actively against the Government in order to get an impact on increased appropriations for the police, increased focus on recurrent crime, the prevention of everyday crime, and not least organised crime. It is gratifying to hear the Minister of Justice say that the Government takes this seriously, and that they see that it is an increasing problem. Then it remains to be seen until the fall if the Minister of Justice shows action. It's not supposed to be in the Progress Party. The Progress Party looks forward to the government's budget statement on these important issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-04.ana.ud102e558	You don't have to be from Oslo to care about Oslo. I think it's a very important matter that the interpellant now addresses. It's actually about Norway's face outside and how people experience the capital. As a big city, Oslo undoubtedly has some special challenges. Although we probably know that repeat crime exists elsewhere, it was here that we first experienced it, and here too we have been able to follow this type of crime over the longest period of time. It might also be here that we have the best assumptions to be able to intervene and to know what strategies are needed to prevent and stop this kind of crime. I believe it is undisputed that recriminalism, which has tended to exist in Oslo, creates insecurity in the everyday lives of too many. There is also an increasing trend towards unprovoked violence on the part of individuals outside the rest of the world. This is a crime of such a nature that where adults could otherwise be allowed to intervene, they are not afraid of the consequences. That's why we're totally dependent on having an active police force that, on behalf of the population, is able to solve this security challenge. Who's being hit by recriminalism? Of course, it is those with whom the gang at all times may be in conflict with or who may wish to conflict with, but it also happens by accident. We see that these crowds in different ways are driving recruitment and approaching youth environments, because they see that this is a possible market to expand their activity. Of course, what is also frightening, and which characterizes the crime scene in general, is that violence is becoming more serious. There's more frequent use of knives, there's more use of targeted, powerful blows and kicks against your head. We experience killings, and we see that torpedo operations are also spreading in Norway, unfortunately. It is very important that the police have the ability to prioritize matters of this nature, and it is very important for society not to be perceived to build it up under the sense of lawless conditions. The Oslo police have had the repeater project ‘Very Important Criminals’. It meant targeted efforts to stop repeaters and prevent serious crime. It's a way of working that, at my discretion, is very important, and I think we have to do more and not less of it in the future. There's one thing that's alarming about recriminalism, and that's how these environments speculate about using younger youths and children who are under the criminal detainee, in order to be able to commit crime in this way without risking any consequences in the next round. That's why it's very important that both the Minister of Justice and several of the speakers before me, that we're in cash, and that we have good tools to deal with first-time criminals. It's a challenge that they get younger and younger, even under the criminal lavalier, but we'll do ourselves a solid bear service if we don't find a way to meet these young people who ensure that they get a response, so that they understand the consequences of what they've been doing, in the hope of preventing them from starting a criminal racetrack. The right is concerned that Oslo should be a safe city, not only for those who live here – of course – but also for the many who visit Oslo. As I was at the beginning, I think very many people have a relationship with the capital, and we want to be able to travel safely in the city. It goes beyond the quality of life of all of us if we can't move around freely in fear of crime. The police are undoubtedly doing a lot of work, but we must always ask ourselves if there may be a need for additional resources and further action when and whose crime scene warrants it. Of course, active crime control in relation to recriminal crime is also about the fact that the police will then be able to take those who commit these acts. But it's just as important, as several of the speakers here have said, to prevent re-recruitment to the rest of the world. This is why prevention is very crucial.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-04.ana.ud102e584	I will initially, as several others have also done, give commendation to Jan Bøhler for taking up the theme, for that is important. It is important to find measures to combat recriminalism. Then I want to continue where the Minister of Justice left off. Finally, in its article, Storberget drew up a different theme from that of combating crime, namely the prevention aspect. That's what I think and SV are extremely important. Some time ago, I was talking to an employee of a child-rescue institution. She told them that quite a few of their young people come from what we call alien cultural environments, i.e. people who have parents from other countries who have come to Norway. She said that there was one thing that surprised her quite a lot: those with Muslim backgrounds have a very great resistance to drinking alcohol, because it is foreign in their culture, and this view they have in parallel with the fact that they are converting drugs and being taken for it. That shows it a little absurd in the situation, but also how little knowledge we have of their background. They come to a Norwegian society and they encounter a great deal of ignorance. As far as part of these environments is concerned, we have to admit that we have done very little with an inclusive policy in which they become part of the community. Often we define "us" and "them" so that a distance arises that pushes them into its own environments in many ways. I heard the post of Solvency Horne. It is obvious that the Progress Party is right in that the police have a role to play. At the same time, however, it is quite symptomatic when the Progress Party describes these phenomena, that the word prevention is not mentioned at all. That is the challenge that serious politicians have to take seriously. How do we create kindergarten environments where those who initially do not have Norwegian background feel welcome, that parents like to use that kindergarten, and that this continues into the school environments in a way that allows you to maintain your cultural background in a class situation, even when you have someone from other countries, and at the same time feel that you are part of a larger community? I think that's the way that some of us behave pretty much in this society, become part of the community and want to help build the community. But I think that some of us, day after day, felt that we were not part of the community, that the community expressed that we were alien elements in that environment, by being pushed out, would also rise up against that community. It's part of the mechanisms in relation to the replicability in Oslo. There's no defense for criminal acts, but if you don't get involved in that kind of mechanism, it just means that it'll be reinforced over time. Here was the advertisement that the Advance Party had in connection with the election campaign, mentioned. The reactions to the ad are not due to the reaction to the fact that the Progress Party places recriminalism and violence on the agenda – we must all be concerned about that – the reactions are due to the way in which it is done. The image of 'em' and 'us' is enhanced in such a way that counter-reactions in these environments are also enhanced. What it helps to do is to reinforce criminal acts. That's why we have to be seriously concerned with the mechanisms that make a person commit crime in a society, and fight it – take the trouble at the root. You don't do that by stigmatizing large groups. This is done by including them and searching in a common understanding with them, even if they have a different cultural background, how we can get a society that is safe for everyone, both for us and for others who come to this society to live together with us.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-04.ana.ud102e597	I also want to give tribute to the representative Jan Bøhler for bringing up a theme that too many in this city, both Jan Bøhler and I represent, probably feels more threatening than it really is. A major challenge in terms of security itself is well what is the security experienced, and what is the real security. I am not particularly in doubt that many suggestions related to recriminalism contribute to the fact that the security experienced for many is lower than what the real security of this city actually is. Now the Minister of Justice was involved in a great many of the measures that have been going on in the Oslo Police for years, including the strengthening of Kripos, which I would say has contributed positively to the fact that we do not have more recriminalism than what we actually have in this city. It is also the case that the Oslo Police have intervened in several incipient communities — and succeeded in doing so. I also think that this is what I hear in the picture when we discuss this matter. Then the Minister of Justice also stated that it is not only minority-speaking who are members of gangs, it is also ethnic Norwegian. It's both inside the same rest environment at times. It gives a more sophisticated picture of the situation than you can sometimes get the impression of. We have a big challenge in preventing recruitment. Here, several of the speakers were in charge of prevention. In Oslo, we have had – I would say – quite successful examples of what is called SLT – now I think it's got a different name, but it doesn't matter that much – a cooperation between local authorities, where police, school, child protection and other local authorities have been in place to prevent and prevent the build-up of gangs. This brings me to something that the Minister of Justice was involved in yesterday's debate, namely the duty of professional secrecy. I don't think we're in the target yet when it comes to ensuring that the professional secrecy between different departments is practiced in such a way that it ultimately benefits the individual youth. Here, I think, in fact, it's the practice that's the challenge, not so much the current law, which has actually opened up to this much more than you sometimes get the impression. I also noticed that the Minister of Justice referred to new special criminal law, which is to come. We are responding to proposals related to criminal atrocities, which I understood both the Minister of Justice and the interpellant are thinking about when it comes to crimes that can be particularly linked to the activity we are discussing here. I also find it interesting that a review of the withdrawal rules was mentioned. In the past, we have strengthened legislation, among other things. by having the burden of proof reversed in several respects. It might be interesting to hear if the Minister of Justice is thinking of further increased access in this way. Nor do we come from the fact that this is also a good integration policy in the case of minority speakers. What is often happening to recruiters? Well, it's that they get a community, they get surrogate parents, I'll call it, in the community, also because their parents are not integrated into the Norwegian community. It's like the individual child, the individual youth who's tied to the Norwegian community, he is, or she sometimes, who can Norwegian, and who can play their parents partially beyond the sideline. But again – thank you to the interpellant for having travelled an important matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-04.ana.ud102e617	We are still reminded in the media that as a witness or as a source of criminal proceedings you run a great risk. Threats and actual reprisals are being solved by more and more criminals. One consequence is that less and less will assist the police and the prosecution authority with important information to clarify the case. The second consequence has a more common meaning, but is all the more serious: people are afraid to help someone who is subjected to street violence. People are afraid to contact the police after they have seen something or heard important information. Of fear of being involved in inconveniences, it is safer not to. Then we have already come out to drive: the people on the street feel that they have less protection than the criminals have, supported by inventive defenders. After the famous large heroin case of 2002 where the prosecution authority drew the charges to protect its sources, the department came with Ot.prp. No 24 for 2002-2003, which ended with legislative changes related to restrictions on access to documents and the provision of evidence. The amendment of the law imposes very strict conditions to limit the transparency of the person to whom it is addressed, and that is, in information that is not even claimed as evidence by the prosecution authority. Nor can it be denied the transparency of information already provided to justify detention, which takes place at a very early stage in the case, and the prosecution authority has extremely little time to consider the concerns of any sources or witnesses. This puts the prosecution authority in a very difficult situation, and quickly locks the possibility of limiting transparency, to which the amendment was intended to open. The conditions imposed to limit transparency appear to be too strict and do not change much the hopeless situation of the prosecution authority in: trying to resolve matters but at the same time protecting its sources. I ask the Minister of Justice to consider opening up this access to further restrict transparency in order to get a change in reality, as hopefully it was meant to be at the latest legislative change. I would have preferred to see the defendant and the defendant only be given access to the facts of the case which are linked to the evidence that the prosecution will use in court. A completely different measure I ask the Minister of Justice to take a closer look at is that it must have some consequences for the defender to advise his client to lie directly in court. After several issues of media attention where some defenders have come up with their actions, and what means they allow themselves to use, people's perception has become that it is no longer an objective to arrive at the truth in a Norwegian courtroom. I hope the Minister of Justice agrees with me that it has gone more than far. The violation of fundamental ethical principles does not seem to have any consequences for the lawyers, and it is based on a development in the Norwegian legal state that I like very badly.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-04.ana.ud102e634	The large majority of children and young people in Norway are law-abiding citizens and are not in the police records. However, there is a small minority who, for various reasons, develop a criminal career, and of these again, some are already before they reach the criminal low age, have made criminal mistakes. I noticed that the Minister of Justice in his speech was working within the previous government. As you know, when they were in government, the left was involved in creating an action plan called: Together on child and youth crime [[2005-2008]] I would like to point out that there are young lawbreakers who pose a particular challenge. It is particularly important that all parts of the auxiliaries cooperate to give this group other opportunities. There are several people who have been involved, but I believe the core is something that follows: rehabilitation and prevention. It is a key word when crime is to be held down. Putting each one's way into a criminal racetrack is alpha and omega. Young people's closeness must also, as far as they are able, help to stop the negative development, but, of course, the professional bodies must help with the advice, guidance and action plan for each individual. Here we talk about child protection, about justice, about the social, health and education sectors. We have to have a wide angle and strong coordination, so we can reach these that can be in danger. Family and community I think we too can learn. They are at least the most important anchor fasteners for young people, and here all the positive elements in the individual neighbourhood must be stimulated and activated. It is important to establish a system that makes young offenders not develop a criminal career and that they do not become repeaters in the system. Young offenders under 18 years of age must have new and different opportunities than just being put in prison. The use of conflict councils, youth contracts and community sanctions is a factor in this context. Correspondingly, rapid response to lawbreakers made by young lawbreakers is important. Nothing is more devastating than a long wait before one is allowed to do separately. And a lot of young people continue to commit crime while waiting for a response from the system and society. I noticed with pleasure that the Minister of Justice in his speech was about exactly the same thing, that one should now get more focus on the settlement problem. Some environments of immigrant youth have contributed to the increase in population and population, especially in large cities. The left-hand side of the equation is that you go behind the number and find the reason for this. Research shows that these young people are overrepresented in poverty statistics, and those in the gangs are often young people who fall outside the established society. It's about identity. It's about cohesion, friendship and loyalty, which many in these groups don't find in schools or in other youth environments. The left's view is that much of the crime being committed in these environments can be prevented if the auxiliaries and other good forces in civil society cooperate more closely. Better integration will be a key factor in this context. The police, of course, have to be named. Most police officers need to be freed from bureaucratic tasks and have more time for police work. There must be more time to stop the gangs who raid and exercise power against other young people, or to commit criminal acts against other citizens. The left's action plan provided for strong and close cooperation between different departments and professional bodies, and I expect the Minister of Justice to be agreed in this way to work. However, it might be a bit interesting to hear the Minister of Justice say something about this action plan and how he might be followed up.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-04.ana.ud102e660	After listening to the Progress Party here instead, I almost wanted to say that the easiest thing is a gun. As usual, prevention and rehabilitation were not concentrated. It was only stricter penalties that were emphasised. The most important thing in this matter I think is to stop and prevent new recruitment. They're recruiting very young people into the gangs. They get access to money – and they spend a lot of money. Many settle a large debt – a very large debt. Anyway, they get caught, and they're hard to get out of this vicious circle. In order to prevent this from happening, I think that we have to tora think both traditionally and untraditionally. Traditional prevention is to give municipalities an economy so that they can keep up with a lack of leisure, that there are enough teachers in school, etc. An untraditional measure is, among other things: the cricket project of Ikhlaq Khan in ‘WayBack’. Such projects, where one gets access to young people, second and third generations of immigrants from Pakistan, and get them activated in their national sport from Pakistan, that is, cricket, just prevent these kids from getting into the gangs. We need more of these and similar projects. In this debate, I also want to talk about the rehabilitation of those who actually come to prison, so that they don't use the time in prison to expand their criminal network, but that we break the vicious circle, that we get them out of the criminal racetrack. Then more resources are needed for criminal services. It was therefore particularly important that the new government should also increase this item in the budget for this year. The zoning content is important for rehabilitation. When they leave prison, it is also important that they receive a follow-up to prevent relapse. The scale area indicates that there are no easy shortcuts. We have to work systematically and objectively, and it's done. We have to see the health, and it's done.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-04.ana.ud102e673	This is an important debate. I will praise the interpellant, in the same way that many others have done today. Many people live in great fear of the people that this is about. Many are threatened, and many families are also subjected to brutal violence by gang members, for example. from a husband, girlfriend, father. This is several of us who have been gone. In addition, they are also seen as role models, often in the absence of good role models and options for children growing up. I think the film ‘Izzat’, which has gone before, well showed some of the problems in terms of both growing up conditions for children and the difficulty of breaking out if one has first become part of these gangs. I want to bring forward three things that I think are important to prevent gang members from continuing to be ideals. Firstly, it is important that children and young people have safe growing conditions, whether they are ethnically Norwegian or have a minority background. Of course, in the case of minority children, there are some particular issues. In particular, Norwegian skills — including Norwegian skills for their parents — and strengthening their parenting role so that they can have authority over their children and understand the society in which their children live and the challenges children face. It concerns the relationship between parents and school, which is very important. This is about leisure, not least the civilised Oslo has a lot of problems in the past. This also applies to children being taken out of school and sent to their home country, which also affects Norwegian knowledge. This applies to local cooperation, e.g.: through the SLT, the coordination of local crime prevention measures, which have been discussed by many, which they have clearly in many places. I've been to the Stovner Police Station and I've seen how to work in the long term, too, if you don't have an ongoing call for outsourcing, which prevents the long term of the measures you're building up. Of course, nursery services are also important. I also want to draw up a conversation group at Stovner, where you just worked with immigrant youth to strengthen their faith in their seas. It was found that in common with all the participants in the group, they had to look into the memory to come up with positive experiences with adults. Some participants did not have a single positive experience with adults that they could draw out. Secondly, the immigrant population and young people with minority backgrounds have to experience themselves in Norway. It must be useful to take an education. The school has to follow up more closely on parents — one has to take inwards that it may be absolutely necessary — and more needs to be done for those who are not as theoretically strong as others. I think that the film ‘The Harassment of Youth’ illustrates quite well some of the issues that young people can face, especially if they are not as good at school as we are sitting on the Stortinget. Discrimination and a debate that is largely about the negative of minorities in Norway push people away and lead to a lack of loyalty. In addition, many people experience that it is not useful to train or apply for jobs, because they have seen immigrants discriminate in Norway. The third point is that the police need to be backed up so that they can concentrate on recriminalism, and we also need to ensure an aggressive withdrawal policy. I am very pleased that the Council of State was in on this, that he will go through it, and that he will also go through the relationship of carrying weapons on the open street and hit hard down on it. I believe there must be severe penalties in these cases. But you also have to have a differentiated policy, depending on whether it's young offenders, or whether it's people who have a long speed. Then there's another thing. But just betting on prison, without providing proper rehabilitation, is just postponing the problem, because they're coming back and continuing in the same ladder. Some get worse too. Many come out and continue their so-called ‘AS crime’. They run a little bit here and a little bit there. They have loose associations, which are not regular gangs, but where they deal with different types of crime. I want to bring forward three things in terms of rehabilitation. One is measures against repeaters, which have worked reasonably well, but where you have some challenges. It’s Stifinner in Oslo prison, where I’ve met people who have actually been with both the A gang and the B gang, but who through systematic work with violence and aggression problems, with networks, with drug problems and with their crime have actually managed to turn people around. The last is the Oslo bridge builder project, which is also very good, and which is actually initiated by the minority population, among others. of women who experienced it as very problematic that they did not deal with the crime that many from their own communities in particular were behind. This has been evaluated in years by KRUS. I hope the Council of State will take up that evaluation report and look at how we can further develop the bridge builder project.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-04.ana.ud102e694	I thank all the participants in the debate for many good contributions. I am also pleased that many of the interventions focused on prevention and rehabilitation. I can mention an example of this that I myself have looked at closely. As I mentioned in my post, at the Furuset in Oslo, something called the Furuset gang has now arisen, which works for one of the main people – the A-tween and the B-tween. At the Furuset, the leisure club was closed a few years ago, in the 1990s. The police told me quite specifically that when that club disappeared – many of those in danger, there was a place of residence with opportunities to develop in another path – the environment at Furuset became more difficult. It is obvious that this has a close relationship with prevention, active locally in each neighbourhood. We all probably agree that when it's like parents, for example. In the same environment, I'm told that there's talk among young people at school about the bullies in the A-boy and the B-boy as ideals – it's spoken of like this because the ones described here have the riches, and they live as criminals – it's clear that it's important that they are taken. If the experience is that it is possible to go around like this for 25 years, it is clear that taking them is prevention. Because it's clear that taking criminals, cleaning up, making impressions on those who go to school and talk about this. So I think there's a very close connection between prevention and succeeding in rolling up these numbers. I saw as a leisure worker working on the environment that became the Tveita Times, evolving. It was rolled up. The police made a very strong effort to take them. Some of them have appeared in other environments, but the crowd was rolled up. It had great positive ring-effects for the environment at Trosterud, Haugherud and Tveita in Oslo where they had their origins. So there's a close connection between dissolving threads and doing a good prevention work. When violence episodes happen – it's now happened on Furuset, there's been more happening on Stovner, and I've mentioned other areas – it's felt as menacing for years by people who travel in those environments. This is important for the living conditions of people. The representative of the Seven said that it felt also important for how people feel in the local settings. When this year, per 1st May, 238 episodes of significant damage, i.e. acts of violence, are not just imagined; they are realities. I hope that the result here is that we get a long, good, coordinated action against this crime.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-04.ana.ud102e705	This I think has been a very good debate. There are many of the posts that could help us to do something about the challenge that the interpellant points to. The debate has been very concrete – it has made a good deal of progress. I'm glad that there seems to be some of the measures I launched, especially against withdrawal, there is broad support for, and that we work further along those axes also in relation to knives and other weapons in Oslo and elsewhere in the country. I want to start by saying that in many ways it's not the people we want to live, it's the actions and activities of the gangs. Some of us actually have positive terms associated with being in a bunch. I wish for a situation, both in Oslo and elsewhere in the country, where we had dense and good environments around youth, which could be considered the good crowd, where one clearly distanced from the activities to many of the crowds we are talking about today. I tried initially in the debate to warn against doing this just as a police debate. It hasn't been at all. I think in many ways the representative Elisabeth Aspaker's posts gave a very good impression of the breadth of all the measures that we need to take with us. It's a little easy, when we're facing such acute and serious problems, that we might storm to the simplest solutions, and then we leave a lot of prevention and many of the other measures behind. Having a width in the strategy I think is absolutely crucial. The elements that the representative Ballo had in relation to creating tension between groups are certainly important if we are to be able to get closer to these environments – not set up groups against each other, but give people the feeling and ability to develop both in school and work, sail if they have something different fore and surnames and something different from most of us. The representative Ludvigsen challenged me in relation to the action plan on child and youth crime. Yes, there is an action plan that several of us have supported over many years. But at the same time, I have to say that I see the time to be able to take action – including in relation to these types of action plans. In this field, we have quite a lot of plan material, and for the government's part, we don't have the ambition to do much more planning in this particular area. It is primarily to make the plans operational that is the big challenge for us. I just want to say to the representative of the Seven: I am very pleased with the support on the issue of withdrawal. We're looking at the issue of extending the scope for extended withdrawal, but also to get the courts to use the withdrawal institute more. The representative, Prestrud, discussed several important issues in the debate, such as the issue of witness protection. But I would also like to mention the question of transparency. After all, the Supreme Court has recently issued a confession that reflects the desire for transparency quite a bit. There, we will take the initiative in legal work that will, if possible, limit that kind of transparency. [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-04.ana.ud102e722	As a result, the interpellation debate in case No. End of 2
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-04.ana.ud102e736	The fishing vessel «Western» was listed on the way from Lovund to Myken in Northern Ireland on 6 February 1981. The loss was investigated by the Permanent Investigation Commission for certain fishing-fleet accidents, which concluded that the ‘Western’ had disappeared due to bridging due to poor stability in combination with difficult wave conditions and that the ship had subsequently sunk in a short time. By letter of October 2004, the Enlarged Committee asked the Minister of Justice to assess the question of re-examination of the ‘Western’ loss, based on enquiries from relatives to the deceased and the material they had generated. A unanimous committee refers to the fact that the survivors have asked for the matter to be re-examined, and the Committee agrees with the survivors that the matter should be re-examined, so that it can be discussed as best as possible, and that the matter can be concluded in a dignified manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-04.ana.ud102e747	Just before Christmas, Stortinget dealt with the question of compensation following the ‘Development Senior’ case, and today, Stortinget will grant funds so that a re-examination of the ‘Western’ case can be started. Common to both of these things is that the accident has hit two small communities hard, families are left with great losses, and it affects all of us living along the coast. The case rapporteur, Thore A. Nistad, explained the course of this case, so I will not get into it. But what's certain is that the conclusion of the investigation commission in retrospect has created a lot of controversy, and there have been a lot of theories around the crash. Especially for the survivors, it has been difficult not to know with certainty what happened. As a result, many individuals and different organisations, such as the Fisker Team, have been working to re-examine. Last summer, the Bondevik II Government decided to launch a new audit. I am pleased that the Government has now taken responsibility for granting the necessary funds, so that the investigation can get under way. The survivors have lived with the questions after the accident for many years. They have also contributed to the provision of material and evidence that led the study Commission to conclude that further reviews should be carried out. I hope that the review can help the survivors get the answers they need, but the review can also help us to gain more knowledge about how to prevent and prevent such serious accidents along the coast. The fishing industry is a highly risky industry. That is why we have a responsibility for fishermen, their relatives and all those living along the coast to feel secure that government and corruption have a focus on security and prevention. I have to say that it was with some surprise that I could register today the statements of the Progress Party that this is something the Government has been pressured to do. This is a matter that has hit and affected many strongly, and is therefore not a matter to be used to turn on cheap political coins. That is why I am strongly responding to what I see as a populist attempt by the Progress Party to create contradictions in this matter. I feel reasonably sure that a total accumulation supports the funds to be allocated so that the investigation of the ‘Western’ loss can be started. And just this consensus helps us to get a decent conclusion to this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-04.ana.ud102e764	Of course, the representative of the Bjørnfacen is free to think exactly what she wants about the policy of the Progress Party, and she must continue to do so. The fact in this case, whether the bear face likes it or not, is that Knut Storberget as the State Council initially said that there was no means to start this investigation. He pointed out that Minister of Justice Dørum had not included this in the budget and that it was not possible to carry out the investigation. After a press – as I see it, both inside the government parties and in the opposition at Stortinget – this turned around, and you came back and made a suggestion that you should get hold of it anyway. A proposal to grant funds is being promoted today, and I will give it credit for that. But what is at least the case is that initially the sitting government was not as positive as it is today.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-04.ana.ud102e773	I really didn't think I'd take the floor, but the last round is why. You can sometimes ask yourself, what makes governments make decisions? We don't live in any vacuum about what we think is important, and what we don't think is important. I strongly reject the fact that there has been any pressure that should be illegitimate in this case – rather on the contrary. The government has seen it as particularly important that we get this review in place. When there is no money in the budgets adopted by the Stortinget, the Government and I as the Council of State must take responsibility for promoting just such a matter as the Stortinget is about to deal with today. I think in many ways it's the cleanest way to do it to get coverage for this. It is obvious that the government believes that it is important that we investigate the matter. If not, we could have passed this on to the revised national budget, to the question of next year's government budget, etc. But the background for us to make our own proposition is that we thought it was important to get hold of this, and that we actually got delivered in this field. In this way, I fully agree with the views of the representative Bjørnflaten on this type of matter. There are survivors who have clear expectations of resolving a matter, which may also have consequences for other matters. In my opinion, this is very little suitable for making particular partisan struggles out of it. Then we could draw a lot of reasoning about who put anything into any budget. I don't think it's necessary, all the time the Storting today seems to be able to gather about this proposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-04.ana.ud102e782	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-04.ana.ud102e790	The size goes to voting. In Case No: 1 and 2 do not present a voting theme.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-04.ana.ud102e869	There is no record available. This way, today's maps are processed. Does anyone ask for the word in relation to § 37a of Stortinget’s Rules of Procedure? - The meeting is over.
