ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-30.ana.ud2641e38	The representative of Mr Sonja Irene Sjøli will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-30.ana.ud2641e41	On behalf of the representatives of Inge Wohnning, Trond Helleland and myself, I would like to make a proposal to authorise medical cars to drive in collective fields.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-30.ana.ud2641e46	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-30.ana.ud2641e60	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after the intervention of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is proposed that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-30.ana.ud2641e69	The matter we are dealing with today concerns one of the animals in Norwegian nature that are most threatened by extinction. It's about wolves. Today we have two breeding flocks of wolf in Norway. The goal is for us to be able to get up in three breeding flocks. The Party for Progress has presented a Document No. 8 proposals requiring the inclusion of some of the cross-border flocks in the stock target for wolves. The majority of the Committee, all other than the Advance Party, set out the ground for the 2004 Stortingen on predatory policies. So it's only been two years since the Storting had a broad review of predatory policy. Based on the stocking targets set by the Stortinget in 2004, Norway shall contribute to viable populations of wolves, bears, yorks, gloats and king eagles, and work actively on anti-conflict measures. Population figures shall be able to be assessed based on the effect on grazing, grazing animals and the quality of life of people in areas with a high level of predators. There is a broad majority in favour of rejecting the proposal of the Progress Party. However, I would like to comment on some of the other points mentioned in this matter, especially relating to the comments submitted on behalf of the Right and Christian People's Party. Let me first take the comment from the Right and Christian People's Party, where it is assumed that border forces have increased sharply in recent years. That doesn't lead to correctness. When the predator agreement was concluded two years ago, there were three border flocks of wolves. Today it's two. So that's not the right thing to think about, that the assumptions have changed. The Right Party and the Christian People's Party write that today the border groups are outside national administration. Of course that's not right. A concreteisation was made by the Bondevik II government in March 2005, to which the broad majority joined, which requires that decisions on killing affecting family groups or re-marking pairs of wolves where parts of the territory are located in Sweden, be taken after contact with the Swedish authorities. In this case, there is reason to stress that the Norwegian game law applies on the Norwegian side of the border. This implies that border groups will also be managed by the Norwegian authorities in the future in the event of damage or risk of damage on the Norwegian side of the border. Since these are issues relating to neighbouring countries, the management of border flocks shall be governed by regulations to the central authorities and not to the surveyors. In the comment from the Right and Christian People's Party, it has also been suggested that two years ago, the settlement extended the living space for wolves in Norway. That's not right, and I'm surprised you can write it. The proposal of the Bondevik II government was a management area for the wolf of 17 706 km2. The final administrative area following the agreement in Stortinget was 16 616 km2. So it was reduced by 90 km2 and it's less than the Bondevik II initially. Here, too, I am surprised that the Right Party and the Christian People's Party are breaking up with what was at that time the carnivorous settlement. With regard to what is at the heart of the proposal of the Progress Party, including some border wolf flocks in the stock target, it is quite clear in the predator agreement that you do not want to. Bondevik II was also in its clarification in the regulation of 18 March 2005 and later in the discussion in Stortinget of a Document No. Eight proposals in spring 2005 are quite clear that it should not be. On this basis, a broad majority rejects the proposal of the Progress Party. I recommend the Committee's attitude.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-30.ana.ud2641e99	Norway has a responsibility to manage nature, and conservation of biodiversity is a major challenge. We have the Berne Convention to deal with, and therefore there is no question of whether we should have predators in Norwegian nature, but of how we should manage it, and how the administration should take place. The last report of predators was dealt with in Stortinget in the spring of 2004. There was a broad agreement between the Workers' Party, the Right, the Socialist Left Party and the Christian People's Party. This agreement has been addressed by the Red-Green Government through the Soria Moria Declaration and will follow up at all levels. Norway shall have viable populations of wolf, bear, gloupe, yerv and king eagle, and work actively on mitigation measures. The latter is particularly important, because some communities experience fear, and fear of predators is something we should take seriously. I do not think we can completely avoid conflicts; there is no country with predatory populations, but we can mitigate the conflicts and improve the quality of life for people. Document No The 8th proposal from the Progress Party is limited to dealing with frontier wolves. If the border wolf is half the time on the Norwegian side, the Progress Party considers that it should be included in the stock target of three annual juveniles. If this says the agreement in the Inner East. S. No 174 for 2003-2004 that the border groups ‘must be managed in cooperation with Sweden and cannot be included in a Norwegian target’. This cannot be understood in any other way than not including the wolf's cross-border flocks in the wolf's stock register in Norway. When the agreement was concluded, there were three young people in the border area. Today it's two. This can be seen from the information contained in the letters of reply from the Council of State, which refers to studies conducted by the College of Hedmark. It's amazing that both the Right Party and the Christian People's Party, from my point of view, are already coming out of the 2004 conciliation. That the stock of wolves in Sweden has increased cannot be denied, but no more than was expected when the settlement was concluded and the case was adopted. It's really just claims when the Right Party and the Christian People's Party believe that an increasing number in Sweden will give larger flocks on the border. So it hasn't happened, according to what the Hedmark College says -- with today's two young people. I believe that remarks based on assumptions and assertions should not really be the subject of any debate; at least it creates conflicts. To propose that the Government should come back to the Storting with proposals for measures if the stock of predators is larger than at the time of adoption in 2004, says everything about the breach of the Right and Christian People's Party has now done to the settlement. This is a new policy. They point out that the situation is different from the settlement. So it's not. Now no one knows what predatory policies these two parties have. But the left is at the agreed settlement. The centre party was not involved in the agreement in 2004, but will nevertheless follow current practices in predatory policies. The red-greens are gathered behind the Soria Moria Declaration, and it is the current predatory policy today. I expect the government to follow closely the development of the border groups of wolves, which is particularly important if the border population increases significantly. The majority have said that account should be taken of the fact that the total pressure on predators should not increase in the regions where there is a lot of time already, rather the number should decrease. Robbery policy is not problem-free, we should not hide it, but I take it as a matter of course that when predatory wildlife subjects complete the management plans for the different regions, to which the revised national budget has allocated money, and get the full overview, 2006 will be an exceptional year with regard to the prohibition of grazing on land by some farmers.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-30.ana.ud2641e125	First of all, I would like to say that I refuse to believe that the majority of the Storting may have seen the special situation that has now arisen at the inception of the 2004 predatory settlement. The decision at the time involved a wolf zone whose prevalence extends over large parts of Eastfold and Akershus – and paradoxically also Nordmarka in Oslo. In addition to these areas, the wolf zone consists of a stripe east of Hedmark. Within this zone, the majority considered that there should be at least three breeding wolf flocks before allowing local predators to take over the management and stock management of wolves. This winter there have bred four flocks within this zone. All of these four flocks have in common that they have most of their territory and spend most of their time in Norway. But since two of the breeding flocks are in Sweden now and then, they are not included in the stock target. As a result, there are 41 wolves in Norway. So you might think it is little or much, but when 31 of these are in a few municipalities in Hedmark, yes, then there is a problem, a problem that, in my opinion, could not have been the intention of the 2004 Robbery Agreement. The result of the policy that the majority wants to pursue is, among other things: that because so many hunting dogs are lost to wolves in Eastfold, hunting with a dog is an extinct form of hunting in the county. However, more serious is what happened in the nations on Friday 26 May: Sauebonde Kåre Kleiva and two of his colleagues in Elverum have received notice of grazing. It is precisely grazing and/or massive losses to predators that are the most serious consequence of this policy the majority wants to lead. You can't get past that. It's about denying people the right to practice a profession that's been practiced for centuries. So there are more wolves in Norway that are not part of the Norwegian population target than those that are part of the population target. An overwhelming part of this Norwegian and Norwegian-Swedish wolf tribe has established itself in a small area around Elverum. Then I wish I could say that at least it won't get worse. But it will be. All the time our Norwegian wolf zone along the Swedish border and the Swedish wolf tribe is constantly growing, against 300 individuals, this problem will only increase. We have to deal with that with the decision that is being made today. I refer to the debate in the media which has shown to some extent that some parties have stated that they are bound by the Soria Moria Declaration, and that is why they are not going to vote in favour of the proposal today. Then I would like to refer just to the statement by Soria Moria, which says: ‘The quality of life of people living in predatory areas shall be able to assess stock numbers.’;» [[...]] Who is best able to assess what conditions threaten the quality of life of people in Hedmark and in Eastfold? I think it's the Eastern folds and the Heathmarks. The majority believe that it is the Ministry of the Environment and the Directorate of Nature Management that are best placed to make such decisions. I believe that large parts of the population in the most severely affected areas of Hedmark experience their quality of life as impaired by the presence of the wolf. The media's attention to this debate may indicate that. So if the government thinks anything with its formulations about predators and the right to local administration, etc., they have to get on the road – and it's soon – in this case. In conclusion, I would like to point out that there is something strange about this whole debate. I would like to quote from a letter that should have been sent to the representative Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa from the rapporteurs and vice-presidents of the Central Party in Hedmark: ‘Where else do we find a government that does not count with individuals living in border areas?’ Yeah, where do we do that? Where else do we find stateless predators? I honestly don't understand why it makes sense to manage a stock based on the idea that one wolf is Norwegian, another wolf is Swedish, while another wolf is Norwegian-Swedish. But I hope that the representatives of the majority government intend to give me answers during the debate. There's one thing I'm absolutely sure of, and that's that the sheep that's eaten in Hedmark is Norwegian as just Christmas – no matter what state identity we assign to the wolf. With this, I shall end by presenting the proposal of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-30.ana.ud2641e155	The representative Tord Lien has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-30.ana.ud2641e158	I am quite surprised at the debate so far, when the government parties so totally choose to reject the fact that there has been a development during these two years since the settlement was concluded and until today. In many ways, you choose to stick your head in the sand and rather promote claims that the Right Party and the Christian Party have abandoned what you were involved in. Of course, that's not right. But at least it's an elegant attempt to turn your eyes away from the general debate. Just as a curiosity, I can mention that Heidi Sørensen, in his own way, rejects everything written as an annotation, and what people living in border areas experience to their everyday lives – and just gallantly asserts that the cross-border fleets have not increased at all, and that the cross-border fleets as such are within national administration – and say that all this is not right. Then I register on the other hand that the Workers' Party's representative states that it cannot be denied that the wolf population in Sweden has increased. That's the whole point of this case. We must be politically able, when the situation so warrants, to apply at least some of the mountain-wet rules that need to be applied. If the development is the same as the claims, which can also be substantiated by studies carried out, it is necessary to be able – at least when you have two years of experience – to navigate towards the evolution that has taken place. The ear lids must not be taken entirely on in relation to those living in these areas and to which one should have a close and good relationship. The interests of people living in these areas should also be safeguarded, who are to live there and carry out business development. It must be possible to have two thoughts in your head at the same time in this case. Of course, we need to safeguard the interests of the frontier groups and the predatory game, but we also have a responsibility towards those who are going to live and live in the areas in which the population is primarily located. When the central claim placed on the table almost daily from these areas is that in Norway over the year there are more wolves that are not part of the Norwegian stock target than those that are part of this stock target, the overall objective is weakened. We have to take this seriously. The proposals that the Right Party and the Christian People's Party are making, I have taken as a matter of course to be adopted by the rest of the Stortinget. It becomes almost comical, if you take the break to read the debate from two years back and some statements from the election campaign last year, to see how one of the government parties has now completely turned its back on the population for which you used in many ways, just like most elections, in order to take more care of the interests of the population than the interests of the wolves. I hope people notice that. When one last year, for example, So one of the central party leader Åslaug Hagas' statements, that the matter of the wolf's further fate in Norway is so important to the central party that there would be a difficult question in any government negotiations, it must be timely, when the centre party today chooses to vote against our proposals, which are so cautious in their form and in its request to the government to take a review, to say that people living in border lines must feel that the centre party is completely failing their interests. One has forgotten one's own side with statements, and one has forgotten the people who live in these areas. One of the most important areas of the agreement was the extension of the area for those who were heavily burdened. The experience today, after two years, is that you have not succeeded in this. We see that there is a relatively limited geographical area in Hedmark, around Elverum, which has received the most strain. I didn't mean to. That is why my advice to the government parties must be – and there is reason to apply the mountain-wet rules – to implement in the name of the master what has been said. On this basis, I would like to address the proposals No. 2 and 3 referred to in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-30.ana.ud2641e173	The representative Ivar Kristiansen has addressed the proposals to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-30.ana.ud2641e176	The trustee's responsibility obliges us to take care of the diversity of species in nature. In Norway, we are obliged to have a sustainable population of the four large predators wolf, bear, yerv and gloat. We also have a responsibility to take care of the king eagle. The question that can be asked is how many we are going to have, where they are going to have their areas of life and how best to manage them, while at the same time we are going to have living settlements and an active business. In 2004, the new framework for Norwegian predator management was laid through the treatment of the wild game notification. There was a broad majority of the parties that ended up on the deal. I assume that the centre party also now joins the frames that were then laid, and no longer sits on the sideline in such an important matter. The Christian People's Party is still on the agreement. This – the setting – is no breach of the agreement we made in 2004. But it's important that the whole deal is followed up, and that it happens in line with the Biggest assumption. The main challenge in predatory policies is to build trust between the administration and people affected by predators. The debate on Norwegian predatory policy is engaging, and it affects many. The case itself has many contradictions and conflicts of interest that may seem irreconcilable — even incompatible. Many live with fear. Conflicts are many and partly high in the relationship between protection interests, local communities, district industries and public administration. I think we're wise to take these conflicts seriously -- it's about people's everyday lives a lot of this. It's a challenge to build trust. The overall aim of predatory policies must be to seek measures that can reduce and mitigate this tension. Our predatory policy must be sustainable, and it must not promote conflict. We therefore need a rapid and sound procedure in the case of the predators concerned. We also need a greater degree of consistency in stock assessment. The national stock monitoring programme is therefore important. And one should ensure a greater degree of local involvement to mitigate disagreement on population numbers. Adequate resources must also be allocated to prevent and mitigate conflicts in the region. Since the settlement of predators, the wolf population in Sweden has increased considerably. It is reasonable to assume that this could also lead to an increase in the Swedish-Norwegian border population. Developments in the wolf population in Sweden have been broadly similar to those in Norway. As I said earlier, the Christian People's Party is firmly committed to the predatory settlement that the frontier flocks should not be part of the national stock target for wolves. However, we believe that the objective of a national stock target and the local management of predatory stock may be weakened if the border flock is larger than the Norwegian population. We have to recognise that a sensible management must be based on where it is natural geographically the predators have their habitat. We also have a professional assessment of that. Then we have to try to protect the areas that are most exposed to the loss of sheep and other bofe on the outback. Nevertheless, the Christian People's Party will express concern that some municipalities, such as Rømskog and Aremark, to mention two from my own county, experience a greater concentration of wolves than other municipalities in much of the year. This is a heavy burden, and the quality of life is perceived to deteriorate in the local environment – yes, in relation to the grazing area and also in the use of forests and land. Good prevention is important here, and various remedial measures are also provided for by the conciliation. If this does not work, the agreement on predators also assumes that wolves moving or staying regularly close to the population and population must be capable of being killed if no other effective action can be taken. This is a situation that we should avoid. The Christian People's Party therefore asks the Government to come back with proposals for measures and means to avoid the burden of wolf management being concentrated on a few municipalities, in order to mitigate a level of conflict in the municipalities concerned as far as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-30.ana.ud2641e193	Document No The 8-proposal that the Progress Party is promoting here is very similar to a proposal that the Centre Party made in the last period, in an attempt to settle for a predatory settlement that we did not put ourselves behind. I would also like to remind you, when we now discuss the predatory and border wolf challenges in particular, that we had an alternative to the predatory deal that went a lot further in reducing the number of wolves in particular, but also the number of predators in general than the attempt to change that the Progress Party proposal makes. It's also reflected in our party program. Nor is there any doubt that predatory policy is an important area for the Senter Party, simply because it affects people's everyday lives to those degrees. It affects people’s nutrition, and it affects animal welfare around the districts. It is therefore no secret that the Senterpartiet has primarily wanted a different predatory policy, and especially another predatory policy in the case of wolves. It is, however, that we are part of a government cooperation, and in connection with the Soria Moria declaration we lost the battle of border wolves, and we lost the battle of stock targets. But we have also achieved a part of the Soria Moria declaration, which is a balanced declaration of government. Among other things, we received: in place other replacement rules for predatory losses. We have been given the order that the emergency protection paragraph should be reviewed and clarified. We have established formulations that the population should also be assessed against the impact on grazing, grazing animals and the quality of life of people around the areas concerned. I would therefore challenge the Minister for the Environment to say a few words afterwards about the status of this important work and for the work on achieving the balance of the government statement. It's the five batches behind the predatory settlement, which have to take responsibility for the population, for the frontier wolf, for grazing and for predatory losses. It's not the responsibility of the Center Party. I think it is remarkable that the Right Party and the Christian People's Party now, six months after the government itself, distances themselves from the predatory settlement and tries to give the impression that you want a different predatory policy, especially in those areas where predatory policy is an important part of the public debate. The conditions mentioned here and referred to in the note were known at the time the predatory settlement was concluded, and was not least known at the time we last debated the border wolf, in connection with the examination of Document No. The 8th proposal from the Senterpartiet. We were brutally rejected by an Environment Minister from the Right – who is not present in the Chamber today – who has said that the definition of a border wolf is: A border wolf is a border wolf. It was as far as the previous government wanted to go in and discuss this serious issue. That's why I'm not particularly concerned that the Right and Ivar Kristiansen are haggling with the Center Party from the pulpit today. However, I take note that the Right Party and the Christian People's Party do not want to stand by parts of the agreement they themselves made, for which they themselves were responsible two years ago. I hope that this shows that they are about to take inward that we have been right in parts of the criticism that we have promoted against the predatory policy agreed upon. Among other things, I understand that the decision of the majority of the population that wolves, people and grazing animals should live side by side in discretionary harmony is – at least too much of the conciliators – clear for a revision. We have been attacked by several teams here today because we are going to reject the proposal. It is of course because it is the Soria Moria Declaration that underpins the government's policy. That statement is behind us as long as this government sits, and we are satisfied with the balance that the government statement represents.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-30.ana.ud2641e208	I refer you to the rapporteur's excellent statement of the reasons for the majority's view, a majority in which the Left is included. However, let me make some comments on behalf of the Left. The rapprochement concluded at Stortinget in the spring of 2004 was important. It clarified the policy in a disputed area, and it occurred after long-standing conflict and debate. That's why it was also important that there was a broad majority behind the deal. The left is concerned that the settlement should continue to underpin predatory policies. I feel absolutely convinced that if one takes out one element and adjusts in one area, as it is currently being added up to, it will quickly trigger pressure in other areas. The arrangement of this important settlement can then be quickly undermined and altered. Joint management with Sweden of the border group of wolves was part of the agreement, and also the non-participation of these wolves in the Norwegian target number. The left side is associated with the government parties in the setting. We are not on the proposal of the Right and Christian People's Party. Although the proposal for the frontier flocks is open in form, it may be an element of a new orientation that is not in conformity with the predatory agreement. It doesn't want the left to be on. On the contrary, we want to use the opportunity to stress that we are behind the agreement and believe exactly the same as we did when we were in government, and as we did in the spring of 2004 when we were in the agreement here in Stortinget. I was going to end by noting that the Center Party is part of the majority this time, and wish them – so to speak – a welcome in the flock. But after hearing Ola Borten Moe's posts, I understand that they're forced to move. It's rare that in a predatory debate you see as clearly the swallowing of camels as what we're witnessing here.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-30.ana.ud2641e224	I take note that the majority on Stortinget is adding to the 2004 agreement on predatory game policy. This implies the continuation of the stock targets set in Stortinget, including for wolves. I also take note that for the third time in a row in the last two years, the majority of Stortinget has rejected the inclusion of the wolf border herds in the overall stock target of three annual juveniles. On the basis of the fact that the 2004 stock targets are established, I believe that the majority of the formulations on ‘stockings should be able to be assessed on the basis of the impact on grazing, grazing animals and on the quality of life of people in predatory areas’ are to be assessed by the regional authorities in the context of the regional management plans for predatory game currently under development, with good processes in all regions. I take further note that the majority would like to see enhanced cooperation with Sweden on the management of border stocks. I would like to follow this up in a concrete way. Then I have also noticed that the former government parties Right, Christian People's Party and Left also base the 2004 conciliation, but they still seem to believe that the frontier groups of wolves today are outside national administration. The concreteisation made by the Bondevik II Government in March 2005, to which the vast majority of these members belong, implies that decisions on killing affecting family groups or re-virtual pairs of wolves where parts of the territory of Sweden are located, shall be taken after contact with the Swedish authorities. There is reason to stress here that Norwegian game law applies on the Norwegian side of the border. This implies that border groups will also be managed by the Norwegian authorities in the future in the event of damage or risk of damage on the Norwegian side of the border. Since this is a matter of problems affecting a neighbouring country, the management of these cross-border flocks has been added to the central authorities and not to the surveyors. Based on the comments of the majority in this case, I am pleased with the conclusions that are now being taken into account for the management of the wolf. The government is following up the 2004 Great Britain’s anti-aircraft settlement through a targeted effort on prevention and conflict mitigation measures, with a total of 37 million this year. kr. I am concerned that regional predators will have total responsibility for the dimensioning of current predatory measures in their region. For this reason, it has been suggested that regional denominators themselves allocate allocated funds to conflict-reduction and prevention measures in their region, without being controlled by the central government. Also in the coming period, the Government will place great emphasis on prioritising funds for prevention and conflict mitigation measures to both animal owners, municipalities and communities in areas that are subject to the greatest burden of the management of wolves at all times. I will follow up with a continuation of today's compensation schemes, both in relation to domestic animals, in relation to domestic animals and in relation to hunting dogs, where predatory attacks still occur. I will also, in line with Stortinget’s 2004 leadership, undertake a test of state hunting rental in areas with wolves in predatory game region 5, Hedmark, this autumn. In conclusion, I would like to follow up the point made by the Soria Moria Declaration that the emergency protection paragraph in the wild law should be clarified in order to clarify the animal owner's right to protect domestic animals and dogs from attacks. As part of this work, the Ministry has recently received an assessment from the Directorate for Nature Management on the issue of emergency protection in relation to dogs. I see it as natural to consider a change in the emergency provision in connection with the work on new natural diversity laws.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-30.ana.ud2641e250	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-30.ana.ud2641e253	The Council of State was concerned about the importance of regional wild game subjects, that they are responsible for monitoring the quality of life of the Soria Moria Declaration, and that they have total responsibility for predatory wildlife policy in their region. Then it points to anti-conflict measures. It is worth pointing out that in the debate we have today about wolf, whether Norwegian or Swedish, the predators do not have anything they should have said, because the stock targets have not been achieved. It is a responsibility that lies in the Directorate, and therefore with the Council of State itself. So it is the Council of State that must take responsibility for the quality of life in Hedmark. I want to ask the Council of State the simple question of the Council of State and the Government sees it as 31 wolves around Elverum affect the quality of life of the people most, for those who are engaged in agriculture and buffing in the countryside, and not least for those who have children playing in the countryside in Hedmark.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-30.ana.ud2641e262	I can assure you that the Government is concerned with the quality of life, of course also in the areas that have many wolves. I guess it's not that a large number necessarily results in the threat getting bigger. As a minister, I am very concerned about how our predatory game policy works. It is also one of the reasons why I have now been and am out for a round of visits to all the predatory wildlife subjects, just to get the issues close to the body, which allows us to make decisions that are both necessary and right – but always based on what the Storting has decided.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-30.ana.ud2641e269	The councils have visited Elverum, seen the commitment, got a presentation of the situation and have also felt the abduction that you feel locally. In parts of Hedmark, you are now approaching the reserve tanker. I don't think there's any particular doubt about that. Ask the Hedmark High School at Petter Wabakken, it is believed that the wolf population is centered in Åsnes Finnskog. When there's an explosion of wolves in Sweden, it's obvious that border teams are going to be a much bigger problem. All re-establishment destroys the hunting and field potential, and it destroys the quality of life of people. It's pretty well turned on. Why, then, does the Council of State fail to take on board the fact that the concentration and quality of life were also part of the predatory game settlement, and that today's administration suffers from a total lack of confidence in the affected areas?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-30.ana.ud2641e276	I can assure you once again that I am following this development very well. Of course, it is also important to recognise that there are some municipalities that have stronger pressures than others. That's about. 10 municipalities — Elverum is one of them — affected by wolves in Norway today. We follow it closely. I also think it is important to stress that we are now giving the predators and what is happening in the different regions a chance. There is a new regime that is up and going, it has worked approx. A year, and we're going to gain experience. I promise the representative and Stortinget that we will follow closely and, of course, will also present the issues in due course.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-30.ana.ud2641e283	I am pleased that the Minister for the Environment believes that the Christian People's Party is on the agreement, even though not all the representatives of the government parties do. I am also looking forward to the work that will be presented to us on the emergency court in the case of a dog. In my question to the Council of State, I would like to draw attention to a committee comment. Let me quote from the agreement: ‘The Committee refers to the fact that the notification provides for and supports the delegation of pest withdrawals to the individual municipality in such isolated cases.’;» This goes on pests. These ten municipalities with a heavy load do not always experience such a delegation. I then ask the question: What action is the Council of State going to take in order for these municipalities to experience that the Storting's assumption is being followed up on this field?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-30.ana.ud2641e295	I have now visited five regions, and I have on the block in a few months to cover all the predatory wildlife subjects. The message I get through dialogue with the predatory wildlife subjects is that this new regime with regional predatory wildlife subjects also provides greater insight and opportunities to influence the procedures to have pests removed quickly. I want to follow that development. We are concerned that rapid decisions should be made when damage has been detected. I think a lot of municipalities are just giving feedback that this is where the administration has improved. But as soon as I get reports that the administration is not working after the intentions, I will contact you quickly, so that we can get ahead of it. I assure you that I am following this closely.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-30.ana.ud2641e300	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-30.ana.ud2641e303	Those who had hoped and believed that with the Senter party in government there would be noticeable and positive changes in predatory policy, must be very disappointed today: a complete kneel-drop for SV's predatory fanaticism and a rather embarrassing political magpie for the Center Party. It is no more than a year since the Stortinget dealt with a proposal almost identical to what we are dealing with here today, just with the important difference that it was then the Center Party itself that promoted and supported the proposal. But since then, there have been elections and government negotiations, and the Central Party has failed in something that must be a core question for their voters. With the Central Party in a majority government, it is unfortunately only to note that the wolf lives safer than ever. The breeding stock settlement in 2004 had at least one very serious weakness in the management of the wolf population. The status of the cross-border flocks was unclear, in the sense that they should not be included in the Norwegian stock target. These flocks were thus defined away and considered almost non-existent. Such a situation is not to live with. That is why I am pleased that the Storting has this opportunity to debate this very question. With the predatory policies of the Swedish authorities, a rapidly growing wolf population in Sweden will, of course, have consequences for us too, with a significant migration of wolves from Sweden. The situation may come out of control, and then it may be too late. We can then find ourselves in a situation where the density of wolves in border regions against Sweden is so high that the living conditions of the population in these areas are seriously impaired. There can be no doubt that very many of those living in the most affected areas feel that the policy of the majority of predators is a major offense. The big community and the big crowd should remember Arnulf Upperland's words: ‘You must not tolerate injustice so intensely that you do not touch yourself!’ In this perspective, the debate on the status of cross-border fleets is important. Preferably, I would see that the Stortinget could today determine that border flocks which have at least half their territory and spend at least half of their time in Norway were to be included as part of the total population target of three young people and come under the ordinary Norwegian game management. I am therefore going to express this also through my vote here today. But, of course, I would also like to support the proposals made by the Right and Christian People's Party, which are a good step in the right direction in relation to taking seriously the challenge posed by the border forces. It is both disappointing and alarming that these proposals are not supported by any of the government parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-30.ana.ud2641e325	Wolf is a hot theme where it's hot. Not many people in Norway have been directly affected for the time being, in fact, no more than those involved have been easy to sacrifice on the altar of the great society. Arnulf Upperland talked about the previous talk, so I don't have to mention him. The zone problem itself is based on the fact that this is a burden to which the whole of Norway cannot be exposed. There will be too much conflict. The wolf zone is a border zone, but the majority of the population is not to be seen. In Norwegian policy, it has been chosen to stick your head in the sand, pretending that the plague does not exist and hoping that the individuals it touches quietly go their way. That the Central Party will reject both the proposal of the Progress Party to include parts of the frontier fleets and the proposals of the Right and the Christian People's Party to look at the development of border stocks and the unilateral burden of today's wolf load will give them a strong feeling that the Centre Party has this as an area of pure symbolism in the opposition, which is rapidly dissipated in position. Personally, I will vote in favour of both proposals. Many will feel bitter that what was one of the Central Party's taboos before the election is not even worth an examination and critical look after the election. Norwegian wild game management, and then in particular of wolf, is a disaster. It creates conflicts locally and against our neighbouring country Sweden. The local community feels overwhelmed, unenforced and stamped by the big community. I live and try to create the income of the field in the middle of this. The sense of impotence is great, injustice is very strong, and the distrust of democracy's ability to understand is growing. Reprocessed grazing rights are sacrificed smoothly. Most have already given up, and now the Food Authority forbids pasturage. Landowners in the border area suffer large losses of income and industrial potential. In an established wolfevir, 150 to 200 moose are taken per. years — it continues to increase — the ideal work of hunting and fishing associations is being strangled, and the quality of life of many people is being greatly reduced. It may be impossible, in the spirit of democracy, for individuals to bear the costs of the looting agreement alone. Loss of livestock income is provisionally replaced. However, domestic animals provide subsidised income and thus live on the welfare of the big society already. Hunting and hunting do not require subsidies and support to be developed. The quality of life and the sense of security are indefinable, but not less important for that reason. The majority lack the ability to empathise with the individuals concerned, and it is striking. The right proposal is a good compromise between many interests. It would have given residents and businessmen along the border a hope of being heard. The center part torpedoes that hope. In the election campaign, they put themselves on the market as no to the wolf party. Now you have fallen completely in love with SV and their predatory policy. There must be a record in his shift. Good luck marketing.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-30.ana.ud2641e343	Not much is creating such a debate as for or against predators. To be honest, people living in cities are for, and those living in rural areas are against, and it is relatively natural. Even stronger, of course, are those who live by buffs, have hunting as income or as recreation and hobbies, as well as those who want to use nature for experiences without fear of encountering – in this case – the wolf. This is about quality of life. Extra evil is in the states bordering on Sweden. In Sweden, the number of predators is considerably higher than in Norway. This gives us a large number of predators that cross the border according to their needs. The problem is that the wolves, which are largely on the Norwegian side, are not taken into account, and we will then have a large number clearly above the stock target set by Norway. Of those countries that are particularly affected, among other things: Hedmark – so strongly affected that the Food Authority has notified a grazing ban on some sheep. The danger of being taken by predators is so great now that the buffoon must be kept at home. This, of course, creates problems in several ways. The most difficult is that the sheep must have food, and thus they must graze on the soils that would produce high for the winter season. This, of course, creates extra expenses as well as a lot of extra work for the individual user. To the very thing: it is strange that some other parties do not follow the proposals of the Progress Party. It's also strange that individual representatives in the other parties don't either. Many of us remember, among other things. The representatives of the Central Party who traveled country and beach around and defended the interests of the farmers and the use of the land. You should feel safe when you go out in nature. We were pleased to hear this, and it was in line with the vision of the Advancement Party. But what happens when they have opportunities to do something? Then the Center Party withdraws and the other parties' district representatives are absent. Could it have anything to do with the proposal coming from the Progress Party, or was it not the whole and full truth that came from the Centre Party during the election campaign? Over the past few weeks, a lot of worried people have called me. They've been afraid of their nutritional basis, they've been afraid of their animals, their children or their own safety. They have been so committed that I could be allowed to use their name from this pulpit and say that they had pride in the Central Party in this matter. If it failed, they never went to vote on this party again. For that party and for the representatives, inter alia: from the District Working Party, today must be one of the worst. Today they had the opportunity to fulfill their promises.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-30.ana.ud2641e354	I have followed with amazement the debate, especially the speeches that have come from the Right. First of all, I think you're pompous across the street when you quote Arnulf Upperland, and when you also accuse us of lack of empathy. It's shooting something over the goal! I want not only to challenge the Right, but also to say that it is absolutely imperative that the Right now comes with a clarification of what they actually think about the predatory settlement, and what is Right Policy. They write in the committee comments that they support the predatory settlement. This means having three young Norwegian wolves in Norwegian territory. If you read the comment that the Right has made, it says that they ask the Government to come back to Stortinget in an appropriate way when there are more juveniles of border wolves than it was at the time the predatory settlement was concluded. When the predator agreement was concluded, there were three young people, this year there are two. So the right is that there will be more wolf on the border between Norway and Sweden, before the Storting does anything about it. Nevertheless, you give the impression from the pulpit that you are pursuing a completely different policy, accuses the centre party of a lack of empathy and quotes Arnulf Upperland: «You must not tolerate so deeply the wrong that does not affect you!» I think the Right should say from now on: Do you stand for the predatory settlement and accept the number of wolves that the predatory settlement involves? So to the Progress Party: the Center Party will continue to defend the interests of the communities in all the forums that we are represented. We got some of the things that were our policy, but it is basically the nature of the matter that when you get 6.5 pst. the suspension of an election, and eleven representatives, is a piece from a purely majority. Had we had it, the government statement might have looked a little different, even in this area. But we are behind the government statement, and we are behind the balance that the government statement has in the case of predators. And of course, we have expectations that what's our part of this is being fulfilled and followed up. But I also want to challenge the Progress Party, because the Progress Party writes in its programme, unlike the Centre Party, that we want wolves in Norway, but that we want local government. And then I ask the Progress Party: What part of the Advance Party's programme is this? You can't find the community that wants wolves. Is the Progress Party going to overrun the local administration, or is it not to count on the programme decision of the Progress Party to want wolves?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-30.ana.ud2641e367	The wolf tribe we have on the border between Norway and Sweden is far less guessed by political decisions than what has been adopted and desired in this Chamber. There is a wolf tribe moving in the border area, living in the border area, that is going to be on both sides of the border at any time. No political decision can prevent that! There is a debate in European predator management on the appropriateness of adopting national targets for wild game populations. I recently met an Italian professor – a prominent Italian predatory scientist – who indicated that over time European predators' debate will change, because it is recorded that predators' bodies are just in the border areas, and it is impossible to manage properly by adopting management plans by individual nations, because the animals of course move freely. In the Alps, this takes place between Italy, France and Switzerland; it takes place between France and Spain; it is similar between the old Eastern European countries — which have very large predatory bodies against Western Europe — and it is the same in the Nordic countries. I think that over time we're going to have a situation where we're also going to discuss in this room a common Nordic administration of the big predators, and I look forward to that debate. It's enough that we in the Center Party would travel happier down from Soria Moria if there had been something in the Soria Moria statement that border wolves were to count in the stock. Then I register that one discusses this, and in a way plagues the Center Party with this today. But it is to note that at least the proposals of the Right and Christian People's Party do not affect at all what is the theme, because they say that the Norwegian stock target should be established. This is not what we are discussing, but we are only discussing what action, if any, should be taken if the border wolves become a nuisance. The border wolf is not discussed in relation to the decision of the predatory agreement on three breeding family groups in Norway. It's supposed to be, regardless of the border wolves. The measures referred to are some of those that we are only trying to get into the Soria Moria Declaration, which has been quoted here before: ‘Assessing stocks from the effects on grazing, grazing animals and on the quality of life of people living in predatory areas’, ‘The emergency section of the wild law must be clarified’, ‘Efficient collection of pests’, and the current compensation system — that is, the compensation system we have — was not reversed, as the Stortinget decided. These are measures that the Centre Party has put forward to meet a situation that the Right Party and the Christian People's Party now point out has become so difficult, but with which they have no proposal to do anything about. I don't quite understand where they want to go!
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-30.ana.ud2641e376	I was a little in doubt if the previous speaker was a central partyman until the very end of the article, because he did not sound very much like a central partyman in his argument about predatory policy. Earlier in this debate, Mr Borten Moe challenged me on what is the Party's predatory policy, because we are saying that it should be managed locally. He insists strongly that no community wants the wolf in its vicinity. I don't know if that's true or not. I am absolutely sure that the people of Elverum and the district around Elverum think that 31 wolves are too much. That is why I want to give the people of that area the right to manage predatory policies myself. But here's some misunderstandings going on. Among other things, Heidi Sørensen says there are two breeding flocks of wolves in Norway. That's not true. As I and the Progress Party want to define it, there are four breeding flocks in Norway. Then you might say that there are five breeding flocks in Norway. It is that the last, the fifth, breeding flock is most common in Sweden and least in Norway. Then I say, OK, then I don't count it in the number of breeding populations, but I say it's four. Then it's said that the wolf is threatened. It doesn't lead to any truth at all. Had all the wolves, the Scandinavian wolf and the Russian wolf, been in Norway, it would have been a problem. But the wolf in Norway represents the western marginalized distribution of the species, the periphery of the wolf. At the same time, we have most of the population of yerv and gaupe in Norway. Maybe it would be more important to focus on caring for these predators? It is, of course, the total predatory pressure in an area that is crucial for whether this is a problem for the quality of life of the population or not, not what species rips apart sheep, kills elk and scares the schoolchildren. If there are any from the government parties that remain on the list of speakers – I don't know that, and I'm sorry if I challenge them without anyone having the word – I want to challenge them on how much the burden will be on them, and how many cross-border teams we tolerate to get, before the government believes it's time to change this policy and say that we also include the cross-border teams in the stock target. How many flocks do we need? We see that the population is increasing in the border regions of Hedmark. We see that this is where the Swedish populations are increasing, and we know that this problem is going to grow. How many populations do we tolerate before the Government wants to change policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-30.ana.ud2641e389	It would have been satisfying, at least once in a while, to hear posts from one of the government's spokesmen without one ever having to draw out the Soria Moria statement. I think it's quite striking that this adventure should be the text, and that one can't stand being confronted with his own policy before the elections. I stand here with a long list of relatively interesting quotations from the debate both last year and in the previous year, where famous centre party sizes like Inger S. Enger, Per Olaf Lundteigen, Lars Peder Breck etc. have given relatively high and strong opinions on wolf policy in particular. But now it's Ola Borten Moe you send in the war. I'll register that with interest. I also followed the Minister for the Environment's comments with great interest, because she talked a lot about anti-conflict measures, and expressed a positive opinion on it. I could basically imagine challenging the Minister for the Environment a little bit when it comes to concreteing what she's thinking about. If not, this will soon become a spell without content. It is in the different parts of the country and in the different parts of the individual countries that have wolves, different pressures and different conflicts and problems related to the wolf population. In my own county, the municipalities of Aremark, Marker and Rømskog, bordering Sweden, have the biggest problems. In one of these municipalities, namely Rømskog, the smallest municipality in the county of the population, but one of the largest geographically, in recent years there has been one wolf, a lone wolf whip, which has killed 35-40 dogs. Two or three times the Directorate of Nature Management has been asked to allow the wolf to be killed, which has for years terrorized a small community. And then the challenge goes to the Minister for the Environment: How will the Minister for the Environment deal with such a matter? Doesn't she see that when small communities are hit in this way, you have to be able to accept taking out individual animals that terrorize for years? In the same way that the well-known submarine captain did not see the underwater limit, it is therefore completely impossible for the wolf to see the border between Norway and Sweden. That is why I think it is extremely important that the Minister for the Environment and the Government put full pressure on cooperation with Sweden in relation to the management of border forces. I could also imagine asking the Minister for the Environment to elaborate on what thoughts she has about how it should be done in practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-30.ana.ud2641e400	I think this is an interesting and rewarding debate, but I get a little frustrated when I hear the central party's exodus. I thought the Center Party was for living settlements, I thought they were for a good district policy, I thought they were for quality of life, but unfortunately it's not. We are experiencing that today. I think it is very strange that the representative Ola Borten Moe from the Central Party says that he is proud of what they have done in terms of compensation arrangements for animals that have been lost. So they are proud to have a replacement arrangement for lost animals. I'm absolutely convinced, and I'm talking to a lot of buffalo farmers, that there's no one who's got a buffalo for them to be taken by predators, and then to be replaced. No one wants it, and no one wants it. They will live by what they produce, and not by the fact that predators, in this case the wolf, are able to take their sheep. I am also a little aware that there is so little interest from the Hedmark bench in this matter. As far as I'm concerned, it's only Gunnar Gundersen and the signatory who's taking the case. This is a very important matter for many states, but perhaps for Hedmark the most. During the election campaign, as I mentioned in my previous post, representatives from Hedmark traveled around and told them what to do with predators. One of them was Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum, the first candidate for the Center Party. He's not here today, but he wrote a letter about, among other things, border wolves to us second first candidates on 21 August last year. I hear nothing from him today about this. We also see in a localist, Østlandingen, Saturday 27 May, that the group leader in the Center Party, Merete Furuberg, “expected a robber tower on the thing”. Where's the uprising? Previously, Ola Borten Moe responded to this post and said in the same article that he does not want any insurrection. I firmly believe that if we are to do something about this matter, there must be an uprising, and more than the Advance Party must be involved here. This is about living communities, good district policies and not least the quality of life of those who want to live in the district.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-30.ana.ud2641e411	The representative, Ola Borten Moe, has repeated that he is asking the Right to clarify what they really mean in this debate. I would then recommend the representative, Ola Borten Moe, to read what we ourselves write and what we ourselves propose, and perhaps take it inward more than listening to the review, for example, by the representative, Heidi Sørensen, the case rapporteur, of what we stand for. We haven't written that the limit population has increased. On the contrary, we refer to the response of the Ministry of the Environment to the Committee, which shows that the border stock is unchanged. But we say at the same time that the pure Swedish population has increased. As a result, we assume that the border population can increase, and therefore ask the Government to return to the Storting with measures if the population increases. We take note that the Center Party does not want such a review. We also take note of the fact that the Centre Party feels more comfortable to let this be handled through SV in the Ministry of the Environment. There is no breach of the agreement to ask the Government to return to the Storting if the reconciliation assumptions are changed in relation to the border stock. Today, the border population level does not warrant this, but it can turn around as a result of the developments we see in the Swedish population. I don't think this can be misunderstood either deliberately or unconsciously. The central party feels that we're wronging them. Yes, I understand that it may feel that way, but in the name of justice, we do nothing but quote the central party politicians themselves. We quote them word by word, and if it feels wrong, then we can't help anything special about it. I think we will in the future be more willing to allow this to become a debate on the situation of predators and the administration here and to a lesser extent on whether this should be a debate that is damaging to the Central Party. I think it's more like the Center Party itself that hurts the Center Party than anyone else. I therefore believe that the representative Sundsbø is quite right when he says in the debate today that the Central Party would have traveled much happier down from Soria Moria with another text.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-30.ana.ud2641e422	There has been an interesting debate to listen to, but the strangest thing in this debate is really the way the representatives of the Right and Christian People's Party argue in this case. It may sound as if they have left the agreement on living stock targets for wolves in Norway, which the parties were responsible for getting here in the Chamber during the previous period. There's every reason to ask what the Right and Christian People's Party really wants in this room today. Do they add to a profile where they are going to fight against the Progress Party in populist politics, instead of putting themselves behind the conciliation they have initiated? If that's the case, I think they're going to lose on it. As is known, the Party of Advancement already has several years of training, and the Right Party and the Christian Party must be regarded as novices in that sense. I must also say a little in relation to the building policy of the Advance Party, because it is well that if it had become applicable here in the country, the wolf could actually have gone free. There would have been neither sheep nor people in District Norway with a policy that doesn't have a district profile at all. But I record again that the rhetoric of the Progress Party really returns on them even in the whole debate that we depend on to have in the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-30.ana.ud2641e429	It might be a bit tempting to make a little post from a border dweller, because the real situation is that we had the first establishment of a wolf in Åsnes at the end of the 1980s. It's now documented, and it confirms Petter Wabakken. The process page also shows why the abstinence is now so great. At that time, it was ridiculed. Pasturettes and pasturage were slow, but certainly displaced, because people gave up. It's like the representative Per Roar Bredvold says, "People aren't looking for the replacement, people are looking to be able to run sensible nutrition." Now we're finally confirmed that the core of the establishment is actually in Åsnes. We have three wolf flocks in Åsnes, documented by Wabakken. Two of them are frontier flocks, and they shouldn't appear. It's obvious that this is a pretty strong abstinence to the situation. In addition, we are faced with the argument that since grazing is low in the field, it is well suited to having wolves there. So it is replaced by a predatory policy that has slowly but surely rubbed the interests away. Too many were actually the center part straw when it came to getting the situation illuminated. I dare say that it was not right in front of the election. The center party won a lot of votes on it. We didn't. As far as I am aware, the Right is attached to the entire robber's settlement. I haven't heard anyone discuss that the goal of stock size is going down. Personally, of course, I could have wanted it differently, but that is what I consider to be lost. Here it's important to start discussing the realities. Then we also have the issue of joint Nordic administration. If you ask Petter Wabakken again at the University of Hedmark, you get the impression that there is very little contact with Sweden regarding the management of these animals. There is also a conflict in that direction. So there's a lot of work to do here, and I don't realize then that you're not willing to start taking on such a compromise as the Right proposes, which would really just lead to you starting to look at it again. The representative of Klungland’s articles are seen in many ways as an article that merges into the series as to how the sense of abstinence builds up. So I would strongly recommend that you start discussing the realities of this. Then you actually have to take the cross-border teams and look at the load you have, and then you have to discuss the administration from that.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-30.ana.ud2641e442	Ola Borten Moe has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-30.ana.ud2641e445	I would like to thank you for the clarifications that have come. I do not fully share the reality of the Progress Party that there is no local majority for 31 wolves. I think that if you decide locally about the wolf population, there will be no local majority for any wolves, and then the Progress Party will have to make a choice. More interesting is the clarifications from the Right. I share many of the comments that Gundersen makes, but he has to go home to Hedmark and say – and I'll follow with him if he says so – that he supports three breeding flocks of Helnorsk wolf. He also supports three breeding flocks of border wolves. Today we have two. So he's going to have to go in for more wolves in border areas, not less wolves, and that's something he should say in the name of honor. The right has also said that you are on the predatory agreement. The same is true of the Christian People's Party. We take note of that, and I expect you to follow it in rhetoric as well in the country and in the newspapers of the time that comes.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-30.ana.ud2641e453	This case is very interesting. What we are now witnessing is that the Christian People's Party and the Right are abandoning the policies they have faced in the past, which formed the basis for the so-called predatory settlement, where the Center Party was not involved. Now, when the two lots rely on a different interpretation of the stocking target for wolf than that set out in that agreement, it implies a new attitude. The position of the left today is, of course, a matter of concern. As elected representatives, we must perceive what is going on among those affected by our decisions. There must be a central pillar in the social vision of the red-green government. The government must therefore start work as soon as possible to launch a new predatory game policy, with stock targets and conflict areas following a clear and unambiguous line, with greater emphasis on the attitudes of people living in predatory areas. There is a balance we are facing, and in that balance, the vision, assessments and values of the people living in the areas must be given greater emphasis, in order for us to have a development that can lead to wise future assessments. Everyone in this room is aware that the Center Party programme says that we are against the breeding wolf in Norway. Why are we doing this? Among other things, we're against it because it's not a genetically unique wolf tribe that holds hold in the regions of Sweden/Norway. On the contrary, it is a wolf tribe that is part of a significant Finnish-Russian tribe, and it is an internationally accepted fact. But in particular, we have a responsibility for mountain reefs and clean, where we have a different genetic situation. Finally, the Tord Lien of the Progress Party is having trouble with its own program, which says that one should be too breeding wolf in Norway. There was a significant minority at the national meeting in the Progress Party who disagreed with this wording, said on the grounds that one disagreed with the fact that one in Norway was to have breeding wolves. That is why people have to read the Progress Party programme. That application is probably not random.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-30.ana.ud2641e464	The President shall refrain from commenting.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-30.ana.ud2641e467	It is not surprising that the representatives of the government parties are behind the Soria Moria declaration. But what is alarming in this debate is that the Central Party says: ‘We stand behind that statement as long as this government is seated.’ They are behind the declaration, but not the policy, for the next reason that the representative Ola Borten Moe drew, was that it was the five parties that agreed, which must be responsible for this predatory policy, and not the Senter party. It is alarming that a statement, a paper, but not a policy to be promoted by this declaration is behind it. It has been said in this debate that if we begin to change the agreement, the agreement can be reconciled. But big parts of the deal have changed! This was done in this Chamber in December, when the entire system of compensation was changed, which today's government had laid down in the Soria Moria Declaration. So this hall has done that. The Christian People's Party is on the rendezvous. We haven't changed our position. We take the responsibility we took in 2004 and 2005, including in 2006. There St.meld. No 15 for 2003–04 was treated, half of Østfold would initially have wolves. In the agreement, the whole area was filled with an area of predatory game. According to the report of the Hedmark High School from 15 April, the Djurskogfögfög, which covers the area from the Rømskogen to the Swedish border, has four wolves. In the Rømskog, which covers the rest of the municipality, there are three wolves. These wolves are border wolves. They do not go into the agreement, but we say that this must be possible at a later stage if there are major changes from when we entered into the agreement. The Christian People's Party has a policy that is not populist. The Christian People's Party has a policy that takes the quality of life of people seriously, and we have a policy for sustainable management. We're not leaving this agreement, but we're asking that we come back if the border wolf population exceeds the population from when the settlement was agreed. But it's ‘if’ and ‘if’. It is important for this debate that we, from both sides, are at least right to the truth and not try to interpret each other too far. I think we're all served by it, and the people who live in this country are served by it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-30.ana.ud2641e487	The representative Klungland has a capacity to always talk about the policy of the Progress Party when he is in the pulpit. This is a kind of secret love relationship that he has for us, where one gets the feeling of being back in high school. There one sees that the boys who have found themselves a girl they like, go and tear them into flakes instead of venture to say straight out that they are happy in them. The representative Klungland must not read blindly on Kolberg's little gray. It's more imaginative than the Soria Moria statement. I have actually read Kolberg's little gray self, and think it was quite cheerful reading, but especially the truth was not in it. When the representative Klungland lists up how bad it would have been in Building Norway if the Progress Party got governments, I can only say that the world wouldn't have been so bad, it would actually have been quite good. We would have had living settlements with the Advance Party as well, but would like to have a little bit more modern than the Government today adds up. Let me remind the representative of Klungland, and also all the other government parties, that it is not the Progress Party that protects Building Norway and reduces the possibility of activity on land. It is the red-green government that has done and they have supported all the protection proposals in the previous period. It is not the Progress Party that protects the seas and rivers from the fishing industry. It's the red-green parts that add up. It is not the Progress Party that protects virtually all watercourses and reduces virtually all power expansions, which would have been a good value creation in Building Norway. It is not the Progress Party that is cheering over an agricultural agreement which requires that the number of annual agricultural works should actually be reduced by 4000 annual works. In this debate, instead of hacking the other parties, we are trying to take the Soria Moria statement seriously. It says in the Soria Moria statement that if the number of wolves destroys the quality of life, one has to do something with it. What we see today in several areas is that the quality of life in Building Norway is actually being destroyed because the number of predators is large in certain municipalities. Then this government should have done something. It was the intention of the proposal that was now presented, namely that the Stortinget should give clear signals to the Government that the course we are at does not accept. But it doesn't happen. Unfortunately, the government parties have used this opportunity to say that the course they are at is still on. But let me remind the representatives of the red-green parties that the Soria Moria declaration is not actually sacred. We have already only seen in the committee that has worked on this matter, that several points in the Soria Moria Declaration have been open to debate. I'll mention two. One concerns small power plants, where the Soria Moria declaration set a limit of 1 MW. There we know that the government parties reportedly went to at least 5 MW in the negotiations with Sweden, but we have never confirmed it. The second is that even now the SV accepts mobile gas plants. [[The President clubs.]] It wasn't opening up for the Soria Moria statement either. [[The President clubs again.]] Then one should accept that there are also changes in predatory policies.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-30.ana.ud2641e504	The number is over. Gunnar Gundersen has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-30.ana.ud2641e509	I just have a comment on Ola Borten Moe, which I think took too much to his income. What I tried to say was that the right hand side of the looting game agreement was full, but my personal attitude is that we could have gone further. Hedmark Right has a decision about no to the wolf, but I like to deal with the realities, and that's why I fight for an understanding. I am very pleased that there is a development in the matter, and that you have been willing to start looking at it. I didn't expect it to be the center party that would stick its head in the sand and forget the realities.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-30.ana.ud2641e516	Tord Lien has also had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-30.ana.ud2641e519	The representative Borten Moe thanked for the clarification that had come from my side. I wish I could have thanked for the clarification that came from the government parties, but I cannot. None of the representatives of the government parties have responded to how many breeding wolves you can accept in border areas before you are ready to change policies. We did not get that clarification. Then I have to commend the representative Lundtigen to encourage people to read the programs of the Advance Party. I fully agree with that. It says great things very well, among other things. We're going to have wolves in Norway. There is nothing about the breeding wolf, as Lundtigen claimed, but that we accept that it is wolf in Norway, is in our programme. At the same time, however, our programme says that we do not accept that the Ministry of the Environment and the Directorate of Nature Management should be able to impose a heavy barrage on local communities without the community itself being involved and affecting the whole instrument. That is what is in our programme, and I fully support it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-30.ana.ud2641e526	This has been a rather interesting debate, a debate that has been partly influenced by big words from both sides. But when the representative Ketil Solvik-Olsen of the Progress Party brings small power stations and other issues into this discussion, there will be some paradoxes that are difficult to follow, at least politically. I want to remind all the parties in this room of a couple of things that I experienced in last year's campaign in my home country, Nord-Trøndelag. We are not particularly afflicted by wolves, but we also have the species – eventually. Following the initiative of the Central Party, there was a debate in the election campaign between all the political parties that fought for election, and it was actually such that in the North Trondelag there was a settlement, a predatory settlement, which was also followed up in other states. Both the Right Party, the Advance Party, the SV, the Christian People's Party and the Left were involved in the conciliation. We agreed with the heart on a number of things. The stock numbers, that is, the predator agreement, were not the subject of this agreement. So the point of progress was also on the deal, to mention it in particular. What we agreed on was that, among other things, would focus on maintaining the old compensation schemes. We agreed that we would work on changing the emergency response paragraph. We agreed that we would work to get faster extractions of pests where it was decided to take out animals, i.e. a more efficient extraction. We agreed that we would make sure to work to get a better stock list, etc. There were many points that were taken up, where the parties sat down together and in reasonable order said that this right here we could agree on. I think, from a point of view, that this debate is very much influenced by the big words, because it's actually so that we should still be able to work together on these things. I would like to stress that this is also the reason why the government statement included these elements that something the government was going to work with. I am very pleased that the Minister for the Environment today makes it so clear that she will follow this up, both with emergency paragraph, compensation arrangements and rapid removal of pests, etc. It is also quite clear that the requirement we have for the Government and the Ministry of Environmental Protection, which pursues policy in this area, is that when the population becomes so that it goes beyond grazing, grazing animals and the quality of life of people, action should be taken.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-30.ana.ud2641e537	Per Roar Bredvold has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-30.ana.ud2641e540	Most of it is well said, and it has no intention of saying anything more here, for the vote will be as the vote will be. We're recording that the Center Party is not joining that Document No. The 8 that we have here today. It's a shame, and it's bad. This is about poor rural policies, and it is about poor quality of life. It's not about living districts. It is not a matter of listening to the rapporteurs around the centre party, for example. in Hedmark. All the rapporteurs and rapporteurs support the proposal tabled by the Progress Party and want it to be adopted. But the Center Party doesn't take that into account. It would have been interesting to be flying on the wall — as far as possible — at the central party meetings around the country, and especially in Hedmark. I think it will be difficult to continue good central party policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-30.ana.ud2641e550	When the topic we have up here today, people get very involved, I think it's related to making political decisions in areas that are directly related to biological facts. Those who are then closest to seeing the biological facts see that there is a misunderstanding between what is nature's biological course and what one on a political team thinks it should be. When I say that, it's because it's been decided in the past in this room that the wolf and grazing should go side by side, and that's something that all of those who are affected do not know how to work. When I bring this up, it's because I felt the need to read from the Progress Party program. It says: ‘In Norway, a herd of wolves, yews, bears and boars should be maintained.’ It cannot be understood otherwise than that it applies to both females and males of all those species. When it's said from the Progress Party here that it's not a breeding wolf, it's just a wolf, it's very special when it's in a context where it's called "wolf, yerv, bear and globe" and all those species have juveniles as part of the biological fact. No exceptions have been made to that. It would have been an advantage if one here had been able to dry up to say more clearly what are the biological consequences of the decisions being made, and that one is sincere and honest in relation to it. It would have led to a much greater respect. This applies to the rights and use of land as part of it, which is central, and which, if deprived of it, must have its own compensation. It's one of the elements. But my starting point was the attempt of the Progress Party to say that someone has a different attitude towards youth in the case of wolves, in relation to what is written about the other species. That is not what is stated in the programme or what is evident from the biological realities.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-30.ana.ud2641e566	Martin Engeset has also had the word twice, and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-30.ana.ud2641e569	I just drew myself because I want to ask for answers from the Minister for the Environment. In my speech, I had three questions and challenges for the Minister for the Environment. Then I think it is rather special that the Minister for the Environment is silent as an oyster and does not try to answer. There were anti-conflict measures and what she would specifically add up to them. It was about cooperation with Sweden and what concrete action should be taken to manage these cross-border flocks. And it was this wolf in the Roman Forest that has killed 35-40 dogs in the last few years. I had appreciated whether the Minister for the Environment could actually try to answer what I asked for.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-30.ana.ud2641e574	Unlike the Per Roar Bredvold Progress Party, we get more balanced opinions from Right Gunnar Gunnar Gundersen, and they come from the same county and the same area. Bredvold points out that the Central Party does not participate in this proposal. Of course we don't. He points out that it provides poor district policies, and that leads to poor quality of life. You don't listen to the districts, he also emphasizes in his last post. It is also the case – I would like to stress it – that predatory policies are closely related to agricultural policy elsewhere. I would like to point out that there are no other parties that have a more district hostile agricultural policy than the Progress Party. There are no other batches requiring a higher level of conversion to the agricultural industry than the Party of Progress. No other party's policy, if implemented, would lead to greater depopulation of the districts, border areas, than the policy of the Progress Party, if implemented. I want to mention it when one points out the so-called district enemy attitude to the Center Party. We are continuing to work to secure districts through agricultural agreements and through a balanced predatory policy, where we have reached compromises. That'll be our work in the future, and we'll stand for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-30.ana.ud2641e583	A little comment on Lundtägen's creative interpretation of the party program of the Progress Party. It's possible to come and ask us, and we'll explain everything to him. It says ‘should’ not ‘should’ – there is a significant difference. I'm not going to put myself up in the wolf's sex life, but I respect local management of the wolf. If it is true that all areas in Norway do not want wolves, the policy of the Progress Party is likely to make little wolf in Norway. It is quite clear, because it says «should» be wolf, not «should» be wolf. If it is that many areas want wolves, e.g. That Oslo citizens want wolves in Nordmarka, as they often say in polls, yes, then the wolf actually has a place in Norway too. I think that will be the case, that there are some areas where the wolf is not a nuisance to locals and therefore will be able to live well. In those areas where it is close to the population, local government must be able to say that we don't want it here. There's another thing I would like to have had an answer to. The bounties were imposed on 16 weeks of outdoor work. For most people, outlaws are the only alternatives, because they don't have enough fences to let the sheep go inside the fence. If it becomes a pasturage, what should the farmer do? In the nation on 26 May, sheep farmers Kåre Kleiva says that for him it is totally unrealistic to be able to fence in large enough areas before the grazing season begins to let the sheep out there. The damages are too small for him to dare to let his sheep out. In any case, he becomes either a criminal because he does not dare to let the sheep out on the pasture as he is ordered, or he goes bankrupt because his entire livestock – not all but up to 40 p.m., as statistics say – is in danger of being taken by wolves or other predators. There is also something I would like to have had a response to from the government parties, which says that the agreement they have made is so amazing.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-30.ana.ud2641e594	The debate makes it clear that the agreement in the Stortingen on the policy of predatory game must be firm. I'm going to answer some of the questions I've been given, and there's a couple of things I want to comment on. One is that we have national stock targets for wolves, but I would like to stress that there is no stock targets set for cross-border flocks. I would also like to stress what I said in my post instead, that the border wolves will be managed by the Norwegian authorities if damage or risk of damage occurs on the Norwegian side. Then I got questions about contact with Sweden. I also said in my post that I want to strengthen my cooperation with Sweden. However, I would like to mention the three areas where we have contact. One is that there is contact – and this has been a topic – between me as Minister for the Environment in Norway and the Swedish Minister for the Environment. In addition, we have contacts at the administrative level at the central level. Contacts are now also being established between Swedish authorities at regional level. This was among other things: a theme we discussed in Bodø in connection with the meeting in the predatory game subject there. I would also like to comment on this with a targeted focus on prevention and conflict mitigation measures. It has just been suggested that these funds should be allocated by the regional denominators themselves. That sum has been increased in the budget, but the denominators are to be allocated to them. What I see is that this is a lot of creativity, and it shows a lot of insight into the plans that are now being put into it. I can't list all the actions that are put in place around in the regional denominators, but I can for example. mention training activities and cooperation projects with organisations, such as Norway's Hunter and Fish Associations. So there are different types of measures that are now being launched locally. The regional surveyors make their final management plans during these days. They are interesting and should be absolutely read by all those concerned with the theme, because the management plans for the different regions also provide the guidance for the concrete actions to be put in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-30.ana.ud2641e607	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 2455]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-30.ana.ud2641e623	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to three lines after the intervention of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-30.ana.ud2641e632	Now that the wolf has survived enough debate in Stortinget, we can address a new Document No. 8 proposals from the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and This is the case with the following proposal from the Progress Party: ‘The Government asks the Government to review all the specific environmental requirements that could lead to competitive disadvantages for Norwegian industry and to propose necessary changes to ensure the same environmental requirements for Norwegian industry that are applicable in the EU and other comparable competing countries.’ The Committee has examined this proposal, and it is gratifying, I would say, that a unanimous committee indicates that it is an objective that Norway should become an environmental priority country. In order for future generations to have access to a good environment and clean nature, environmental considerations must be comprehensive in everything we do. Norway shall be a driver of international environmental cooperation. It's good that there's a unanimous committee that says that. Furthermore, the majority of the Committee, with the exception of the Progress Party, shows that being a priority country means taking the lead in new environmental policies and instruments. The majority also point out that environmental regulation can help reduce costs and risks for enterprises, thereby contributing to and strengthening the competitiveness of Norwegian enterprises. The majority will also point to the strong growth of some industries as a result of new environmental requirements, for example. suppliers of cleaning technologies and waste systems. In recent months, we have seen a glittering example of REC – Renewable Energy Corporation – listings that have had record listings. It is a company that works to promote solar energy, and among other things. in its portfolio, the company ScanWafer, which is one of the most exciting industrial ventures we have in Norway. ScanWaver produces wafers, which is what you need to make a solar cell. In this area, they have 30 pst today. of the world market – a world market growing by more than 20 pst. This year. The majority further point to the importance of international cooperation in addressing environmental challenges. Furthermore, the majority points out that stricter environmental requirements can lead Norway to lead the development of environmental technologies, which can also contribute to and strengthen the competitiveness of Norwegian industry over time, as stricter environmental requirements are also applied in other countries. If we combine this effort with a focus on increased research and development, environmental policy can be an important contribution to industrial policy. The majority also emphasises that, of course, there are the overall framework conditions facing Norwegian companies in relation to their international competitors, which are crucial, and not environmental requirements alone. Another majority, consisting of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Left, indicate that the Government will cooperate with the builders of gas power on CO2 capture installations. This is something that can make Norway fully aware of when it comes to developing technologies that will become very important in the future. It may be the technology that can enable us to face the greatest environmental challenge we face globally, namely the threat of man-made climate change. On this basis, the broad majority of the Committee, with the exception of the Party for Progress, rejects Document No. The 8th proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-30.ana.ud2641e662	Although I will probably mention the Progress Party, as proponents, in this post as well, I would say that it has nothing to do with the love of the party, because despite the dissatisfaction of the Advance Party, we in the Workers' Party believe that we live in an amazingly beautiful country. I am so old that I remember when we introduced forced renovation in Norway. Then it was in streams and rivers creamed of diapers, plastic, car batteries and various heavy metals. So it was suggested forced renovation. In my home municipality, a party was formed with one thing on the program: they were forced to renovate. They entered the Municipal Council with four representatives. If you take a trip to Kvinesdal today and ask if there is anyone who wants to go back to voluntary renovation, I am absolutely sure the answer is clear. No one will. I started working at Tinfos Jernverk in 1981. At Tinfos, we had a sludge treatment plant that we stopped once a year for maintenance. Then we played the third game, one day a year. Then they were ordered by the SFT to build a sewage treatment plant for, so they wouldn't spill it on the sea. They protested very much and sent me as a trade union leader to Thorbjørn Berntsen to protest, for this was wasted money. But Thorbjørn Berntsen said, "No, they're going to build this treatment plant." When they started the treatment plant, the director went out into the media and said that if the treatment plant is standing for one day, we will release as much crap as we would have done during 100 years of operation with the treatment plant. In the trade union at Tinfos Jernverk we felt tricked. That was 3.65 pst. of the emissions from Tinfos. But when they got the sewage treatment plant, it was 100 years of emissions with the sewage treatment plant in operation. It shows that we are completely dependent on environmental requirements. The fish works in Kristiansand had a waste problem. They filled up the size of a football field with 10 meters of dust each year. They were required to stop it. So the research department that they had found out that it was going to make money on the dust. After that time they drove the ovens as badly as they could, in order to get the most dust possible. They made more money selling the dust than they earned to sell the metal. They did so because of the environmental requirements imposed on them. When the Progress Party writes in its proposal that they ask the Government to ‘promote proposals for necessary changes that ensure the same environmental requirements for Norwegian industry in force in the EU and other comparable competing countries’, it has to ask: What is it? Can the Progress Party answer that question? When it comes to welfare, we don't have a comparable competitor country. It must therefore be in relation to industry. Are we going to have the same environmental requirements as in Russia, as in Qatar, as in Brazil, as in Africa? The Progress Party must begin to respond to the policies it stands for. They're using the majority because we have 80 pst. of EU environmental legislation implemented in Norwegian environmental legislation. So Tinfos had 100 years of emissions of 3.65 pst. I am proud that we are going to have an offensive environmental policy, that the Government has said that we are going to be the environmental nation. Then we need an active policy. That's something that everyone will earn. I really hope that the technology we come up with can be transferred to other countries, not least to the Chinese, if the Chairman of the Advance Party thinks they should have the same consumption as us.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-30.ana.ud2641e679	Right now I'm glad I'm not a girl with long hair. That's when my braids had a good smell! The Progress Party is for a good environment, for the Klungland briefing. We're too clean for water. We're too clean. We are in favour of measures that ensure this, and we are also in favour of forced renovation – yes, think about it! But we are opposed to a purely symbolic policy that only destroys Norwegian business, without having a particular impact on the environment. It is such a symbolism policy that we address in the proposal. We are not looking at whether it has a concrete effect locally. Good environment is in everyone's interest. Disagreement is based on the strictness of special demand in some areas in relation to the rest of the world. International environmental challenges need to be addressed internationally, not only through narrow Norwegian measures that have no real impact on the international environment. Our proposal has a background in the Hydro Årdal case. It was actually the government parties' own actions in the matter that led us to promote this proposal. Because there are environmental rules that force the shut-down of the Søderberg plant earlier than Hydro wanted. I have no interest in raising a debate whether it makes sense or not. I note that this is happening and that it is likely to have some positive effects on the environment locally. That's good. But the government put itself in a difficult situation by promising in the election campaign that they would save Hydro Årdal. Through the chaotic behavior many in the government parties had when Hydro decided to shut down the Valley of År, they created uncertainty and ambiguity about what they promised, and about what they would do. The representative Heidi Sørensen of SV said in the newspaper that it was impossible for the government to change anything about this, because these were international commitments that we could not get away from, while Minister of Industry Eriksen and Prime Minister Stoltenberg wanted Hydro to apply for a derogation in order to extend the operation. Was it then international demands that stopped Hydro from being able to do that, or not? There's such things that we want to record here. What's going on? It is highly uncertain what is the government's policy. It is enough to quote Tor Steinum, information director of Norsk Hydro, who said to the Newspaper on 23 February: ‘One can get the impression that environmental policy is prioritised one day, and that employment policy the next. There are several aspects of the policy around this which we do not think are precisely tidy in relation to long-term clarified framework conditions and steering signals.’ [[...]] There's this Progress Party here wants to pick up, not go back to a time when you ran around with fines to empty the tues, as the representative Klungland indicated. Then I register that the setting, instead of addressing the real problem, only goes to parties that Norway is going to be a precursor country, everything is positive with strange demands. Nevertheless, one says that almost all environmental rules in Norway come from the EU, so there is nothing to worry about being strange. Then there's a shelf for gas power plants and CO2 cleaning. But the problem that the Hydro Årdal case showed is very real. I'm going to use two examples to illustrate that. Specific environmental requirements – yes, we have signed the Kyoto agreement. It requires us to regulate CO2 emissions globally. One can buy and sell allowances and one can make investments in other countries. Nevertheless, the red-green government wants us to have strange demands for CO2 cleaning. It is not a requirement imposed on us in the Kyoto agreement. It's not a requirement that any other country has. The effect is that one does not get new concessions for cleaning in place. Then someone says that the Kårstø plant is built, but Kollsnes and Skogn are not profitable – ergo no one else will be profitable either. It is possible, but as long as one does not allow concessions under the same conditions as Kårstø has, there is a discrimination. Light Energy has said in Stavanger Evening Leaf that as long as CO2 cleaning is required, they will not even consider submitting an application. Mongstad has said that they can find profitability in a gas power plant, but not if CO2 cleaning is required. The tent credit says they can achieve profitability in gas power plants, but they demand that the country cover the cost of CO2 clean-up. Industrikraft Møre has recently said that they can install gas power plants that are profitable by 2008 but without CO2 cleaning. The government's peculiar framework conditions will not allow that to happen. Similarly, we saw that strange framework conditions for the three-processing industry led Norwegian Forest to enter today's business last March and said that if they do not have the same framework conditions in Norway as in the EU, they would have to assess their presence in Norway. No one responded. When Norwegian Forest later moved out of the Union factory, everything was in place, but it was already too late. It happened because of strange framework conditions. The proposals of the Progress Party are good. It addresses good environmental rules. We are in line with the EU and other Western countries with which we compete. The proposals are good. Everyone can vote for them if they want to give a signal to the Government. We are not weakening Norwegian environmental protection policy, but we are taking away symbolism policy, which only hinders Norwegian business. I'm taking up the suggestions here.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-30.ana.ud2641e727	The representative Ketil Solvik-Olsen took up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-30.ana.ud2641e730	I fully understand the basic idea of the Progress Party proposal, but at the same time, I think it is important that when we talk about the framework conditions of business, the framework conditions of the competitive sector, we have to see them in a complete whole, the overall framework conditions, which, of course, are crucial to how we are to cope, how we are to create values for distribution to all the benefits we have in order to create to a large extent for the Norwegian population. This is what we need to have in mind, and I am sure that the proposers also have. We have seen trends that Norwegian industry has not been competitive in some areas. We especially saw at the beginning of this millennium that some companies chose to move out of the country and establish themselves in particular. Baltic. It has not always been due to strange environmental requirements, but rather to other economic assumptions that made us less competitive at the beginning of the millennium. Today the situation is different, and in many areas we are very competitive. Of course, we will never be able to compete with production from the East, from China and India, when we compare their conditions with Norwegian pay terms, working conditions, etc. I think in many ways it's just positive that we've got a globalization that can provide opportunities for everyone, not equal opportunities yet, unfortunately, but still opportunities that make some countries that have been and are underdeveloped, now have the opportunity to sell what they can, and prerequisites for producing to the modern part of the world. On the other hand, it is clear to the Right that Norway must be a leading country in the context of environmental policy. There is no country in the world that has more to do with having a high environmental profile. If we're going to forcefully throw at other countries that don't have nearly our standard, we're going to have to have our own path clean in the area by area. We're totally satisfied that we have an ecosystem for all our existence, all our residence and in many ways also for our value creation. It is also important that we have strict requirements and set a standard that allows us to bring with us other countries, either as when we agreed to develop a Kyoto Protocol, or that we choose to look forward to how we will deal with climate policy, or various environmental threats that we have around us. We must be a leading country, a leading nation, in terms of both climate policy, management policy, fisheries policy, etc. If we're going to still be able to live in a safe world in a safe environment, we're going to be able to market ourselves in the way that we like to market internationally, we need a high standard, and that's why we need to set a high standard. Climate policy and environmental threats must first and foremost be tackled in an international context. In brackets, when we still adopt most of the EU’s international and national environmental rules, it is a great pity that Norway cannot be within Europe’s decision-making bodies and affect the standards set there. We also have to see the positive in setting strict standards. Norwegian industry has in many ways succeeded in developing to be environmentally friendly. We see it especially in what is the locomotive in the Norwegian economy, oil and gas industries, where Norwegian standard, Norwegian environmental technology, Norwegian technology in particular, has become a brand exported for tens of billions abroad. We see that this is also an advantage when we look at developments in offshore in other countries. However, it is the overall framework conditions that must be decisive in an economic context. As regards the environment, it is important and necessary that Norway is a leading country.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-30.ana.ud2641e749	The Christian People's Party has a goal of Norway becoming a leading environmental nation. Then we have to go ahead and bet on environmentally friendly solutions. We know that climate problems are so huge that they require special solutions. We therefore need a range of measures and extensive use of instruments to reduce climate change emissions. We need to meet our emission obligations through national measures, supplemented by the use of the Kyoto mechanisms. We are obliged to reduce our total greenhouse gas emissions over the five-year period 2008–2012. This is just a first step towards meeting the global climate challenge. There is a need for much greater emission reductions in the longer term, and all countries must contribute to this – Norway and Norwegian industry included. The Christian People's Party is committed to securing jobs in Norway and creating good framework conditions for Norwegian industry. However, it is also important to clarify that environmental requirements do not necessarily threaten and reduce jobs in Norway, as claimed by the Progress Party. It has, as the Christian People's Party sees it, more to do with our compensation of employees, our tax and tax policies and also the overall framework conditions that Norwegian companies meet in relation to their competitors on the international market. The framework conditions for Norwegian industry are currently largely defined by international agreements. It concerns both international trade legislation through the WTO, international environmental agreements, among others. through the UN or agreements in other areas. We know that 80 pst. Norwegian environmental rules come from the EU as a result of the EEA Agreement. EU studies also show that environmental regulation can strengthen the competitiveness of Norwegian enterprises. We have seen that, among other things. within cleaning technologies and waste systems. It is also important to realise that without environmental requirements for industry, it will take longer before industry may itself be striving to develop environmentally friendly technologies and solutions. The Christian People's Party has required CO2 management in the construction of gas power plants in Norway. Many didn't think this was possible. Now we see that Statoil and Shell are betting on CO2 management. This will benefit Norway. We will be in the forefront of developments in environmental technologies, and we must take care of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-30.ana.ud2641e768	The ambition of the left is that Norway should be an environmental priority country. It is also a goal for the Left that Norway should be an attractive country to operate in. Therefore, good framework conditions for industry and other business are important. In Norway, we have shown that there is no contradiction between leading an environmental policy and having a competitive business. International cooperation is essential for us to achieve more of our environmental objectives. Therefore, high and strict environmental requirements are important in as many countries as possible. About 80 pst. Norwegian environmental rules come from the EU, as a result of the EEA Agreement. This means that in this area we are largely in line with comparable countries. The left wants Norway to show the way by allowing environmental considerations to weigh heavily in more and more areas. This implies that when environmental considerations so warrant, we must be willing to lead and impose requirements even if no equivalent requirements have been imposed in all comparable competing countries. On the contrary, it should be a challenge for us if there are areas where we are based and where other comparable countries impose stricter environmental requirements than us. Such areas exist, and we have to do something about that. A good environmental policy that includes strict environmental requirements for industry is forward-looking and also an advantage for industry. Requirements trigger good solutions and new technologies that make businesses more competitive, not less. Those who meet requirements early, adapt and take advantage of competition over enterprises that meet similar requirements at a later stage. It would be pointless if the Norwegian industry were to pollute more or waste more resources because others might be able to do so. We have to look at environmental requirements as an opportunity and not a problem. The work of cleaning CO2 emissions from gas power plants is a good example of this. CO2 treatment opens up new energy production and is necessary if we are to achieve the objectives of the Kyoto Agreement. However, requirements for CO2 cleaning also contribute to the development of solutions in technology, which can be exported and sold to others. It's good for the environment, and it's good for the industry. As a major exporter of oil and gas, it is natural that Norway helps to develop and make commercial technology that pollutes less than the one we use today. Many have been surprised by the commitment of the Progress Party to good framework conditions for renewable energy production. This exposure has been positive. In the matter we are dealing with now, the Progress Party is back in the position we are waiting for the party to have in the environmental policy. When the lot asks the Government to reduce environmental requirements if they are more stringent than those in other countries, it means more emissions to the detriment of the environment and health. And the Progress Party believes that we should do so in a country that has the world's best economy, record-breaking employment and an industry that's going very well all the time. Let's focus on finding areas of environmental policy where we can get even better, do something about it and thus lead the environmental policy. Then we can be proud of it and let it be an inspiration for other countries that can follow. I'm going to make sure that I print a copy of Klungland's posts today, because that was very good. It linked an overall objective to practical examples. I just hope that this is now representative of Klungland's vision, and not of the views he expressed before the election, when he made himself a spokesman for a large number of gas power concessions without requiring CO2 cleaning.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-30.ana.ud2641e799	I would like to stress that the environmental requirements met by Norwegian companies from the authorities are to solve important and serious environmental problems. As shown in my previous statements to the Committee on this matter, the framework conditions for Norwegian industry with regard to environmental requirements are to a large extent defined by international agreements. In Norway, we have high environmental standards, among others. because, as our main trading partner, the EU is increasingly introducing more ambitious environmental rules. When European businesses are subject to equivalent environmental rules, this means that the competitiveness of Norwegian businesses is not impaired by environmental rules. At the same time, it is important for the Government that Norway plays an active role internationally in the development of environmental agreements and legislation. I would like to underline the importance of international cooperation as a key prerequisite for finding good solutions to a number of the serious environmental problems we are facing. Where the EU has not yet developed common harmonised standards, Norway will be able to lay down stricter national requirements. This will be used by the Government whose vulnerable nature, technology development and national or international environmental considerations so warrant. I am pleased that all parties, except the Progress Party, are essentially supporting the environmental policy that the Government wants to pursue in this area. There is therefore no need to review all Norwegian specific requirements, as proposed by the Progress Party. It is important to be aware that Norwegian environmental requirements are set after a broad balance has been made to take account of Norwegian industry. It cannot therefore be established on a general basis that Norwegian environmental requirements lead to a competitive disadvantage for Norwegian industry. The competitiveness of enterprises is made up of very many factors, and in this context it is gratifying that studies from Europe show that environmental regulation can bring competitive benefits and create new, good jobs and technology markets. In other words, environmental regulation can be a good deal. It is important that the challenges facing industry in the environmental field are assessed in a broad societal context. In the major communications on the government's environmental policy and state of the state of the state of the state of the state, the Stortinget is presented with the environmental challenges facing Norway, in which international cooperation the Government will participate, and with what instruments and measures the Government will implement to meet the environmental challenges. In this way, the Government provides the Stortinget with a good briefing on issues of relevance to the Norwegian industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-30.ana.ud2641e815	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-30.ana.ud2641e818	I notice that the Council of State says that strict environmental requirements can provide competitive advantages, but the point the Party of Advancement is trying to make in this debate is that it does not always provide competitive advantages. Sometimes we see that strict Norwegian environmental requirements, which we do not find in other countries, and which also have no significant local environmental impact, actually lead to a relocation of industry. It is moving out of Norway and establishing itself in other countries, with the same global environmental emissions. Let's look at Norwegian Forest. Norwegian Forest went into the papers on 3 March 2005. Group director Ketil Lyng told the Finanzavisen that the company is a global company that must assess the presence in Norway if the special arrangements do not change. And – I quote: ‘There will always be a question where investments should be made. It does not speak in favour of Norway in too many contexts to pursue specific policies in the global context.’ The question then is: Was it reasonable for Norway not to include the wood processing industry in the climate quota law? And will the Council of State possibly do something about this that's taken up here?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-30.ana.ud2641e830	It is important to stress that we are facing major environmental challenges, and I expect the representative to be able to explain it if it is right, what he says, that we are only engaged in symbolism policies in relation to environmental standards. We are facing environmental challenges of dimensions both in Norway and internationally. For this reason, the requirements we set are precisely anchored in the necessary measures to achieve the objective of, among other things. reducing emissions in relation to the climate problem. The rules we have put in place there are absolutely necessary, and there must be stronger measures to reduce the climate challenges we face.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-30.ana.ud2641e837	When we see the energy policy crisis that characterises today's government, which means that the government says no to everything that can help solve the coming energy crisis, mainly in central Norway, but also in the federal state in general, and one chooses to say no to Norwegian gas power stations with an international standard for CO2 management, does the question force itself: will this lead to or not that the Council of State will once during the period say yes to highly polluting mobile gas plants to resolve the acute crisis? I think the representative Gunnar Kvassheim said it quite well in his post: it is pointless that Norway can contaminate because others do. It looks like the government's going to be in that situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-30.ana.ud2641e847	I'm going to assure the Storting that once the Government has concluded on action to address the challenges in Central Norway, the Stortinget will be presented with its conclusions. But what I want to say is that this government has led an offensive climate policy for the first half of the year. We have taken a good step in the right direction to meet the commitments we have under the Kyoto Protocol, and we have launched measures that will have a major impact on Norwegian climate policy. This applies in relation to CO2 management, to the sector-wide climate plans, and that is what we are now doing in the field of biofuels. We are in the process of meeting our international commitments under the Kyoto Protocol through national measures. So I'm going to make sure we're well on our way to achieving our climate goals.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-30.ana.ud2641e857	I am largely behind the views expressed by the Council of State in its statement, which is also reflected in the position where the parties of government and the Left stand together. I want to link a question to what the last replicator raised, namely the possibility of using mobile gas power plants, which the government parties obviously keep open in relation to the situation in Middle Norway. Does the Minister for the Environment see that any use of mobile gas power plants will complicate the achievement of our Kyoto commitments? And does the Council see that Norway, with the assumptions we have in terms of energy production, if we used these highly polluting gas power stations, which have low efficiency, would send signals to other countries that are different from those both the Council of State and the signatory weights in our posts, namely that we should lead?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-30.ana.ud2641e864	I can assure the representative Kvassheim that I see all the problems related to the use of mobile gas power plants, both the pollution problem and the fact that it is not very effective, at least as we know about the gas power plants today. It is clear that all the measures that one might imagine releasing more than we have thought will lead us in the wrong direction. Therefore, it is not desirable to give priority to mobile gas power plants. Now there are many balances to be made, so the Government has not drawn the conclusions to be drawn on the measures to be taken in relation to the power situation in Central Norway. We'll get back to Stortinget with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-30.ana.ud2641e873	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-30.ana.ud2641e878	The framework conditions for industry are important. Predictable framework conditions are important, and then perhaps in the first phase the economic framework conditions. Similarly, power prices are important. It is also important how a person processes and uses other natural resources, such as: the gas, as the industry can make more use of it. However, it is clear that we cannot help to facilitate industry by saying no to environmental requirements and also to specific environmental requirements in Norway. In fact, we are not unreasonable in this country when we make demands on the industry. In fact, there are quite thorough, factual and sober assessments of the requirements that are being set. There is no unreasonableness behind them. We get technology through the requirements that are set, and we get overall a better environment. I myself come from Grenland, which is a good example of the fact that environmental requirements do not provide the uncertainty that the Progress Party claims, among other things. by means of the proposal. It actually brings good environmental benefits, but also significant economic benefits to industry. I recommend at the strongest and warmest Ketil Solvik-Olsen to take a trip to Grenland and visit industry and hear what industry itself says, in the area where one has agreed environmental requirements with also making money, while at the same time ensuring that the residents are reasonably well. So Ketil Solvik-Olsen says that he wants to take a settlement with the symbol policy. But that is not what the Progress Party is doing through the proposal. On the contrary, they once again highlight the effects of symbolism and use Hydro and Søderbergline in Årdal as an example. Here, Hydro is offered technology from Elektem on the Lista, which could allow them to operate with Søderberg technology in a simple and straightforward way within the environmental obligations that exist. But Hydro has said no. Then the Norwegian Forest is brought out as the second example, and it is referred to Union. In fact, as a company in the Norwegian Forest Group, the Union has never paid a CO2 tax. It's actually wrong what the representative of Solvik-Olsen claims. Then he says it's about the framework conditions and the situation for Norwegian Forest. I want to point out what Oksum said, and he emphasised it in the case of the closure of the Union in Skien, that this is not about the framework conditions of the authorities, but about a market that they would govern alone. So there's a direct wrong use of quotes and a direct wrong angle in relation to what's being proposed. So this is not a proposal that takes account of symbolism policy, but a proposal that on the contrary reinforces it. Actually, that's what this is all about. It is economic predictability, exploitation of natural resources and active authorities that contribute to industry and industrial development.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-30.ana.ud2641e896	The representative of Solvik-Olsen will answer for himself, but I would like to join Telemark and the industry on behalf of the Progress Party. We can even visit the Union – no, we cannot, because the Union was not saved, as the Government promised. However, I am going to visit the industry in the sea in the next few months. The industry in the sea is very busy with access to power, and the government is very busy protecting the only clean source of power that can ensure the industry in the sea of the sea access power, that is, the weaver. We have strict environmental requirements in Norway, and worse than that, but I want to draw a parallel. So we have something called CO2 tax in Norway. We've had that for a few years. It has had little or no effect on the environment. But then we have a SO2 fund, a sulphur fund that industry has, the environmental fund of industry. It's had a great effect. Emissions of SO2 from industry in Norway have been greatly reduced, as the best and most effective measures have been implemented through the market mechanisms. The load on each holding has been limited on the other hand. So we're going to reduce NOx emissions from the Norwegian industry. And what do you do? Well, then you take jagu – excuse me, President – then you take and copy the fee that has not worked, namely the CO2 tax, and make a NOx tax, instead of copying what has worked, namely the SO2 fund. A NOx fee will primarily be a fiscal charge to the State. It has to be set very, very high. The Norwegian industry is aware of this, the levy must be very high if it is to lead to investment in order to reduce emissions. There are two ways the industry can reduce emissions of NOx. One is to move the industry to Dubai and China, and the other is to make these investments. But then the fee must be very high. Then I will challenge the government parties: why not create a NOx fund instead? In contrast to the NOx tax, it will lead to less burdens for industry and it will be better for the environment. But then the question is, What is the Government most concerned about the introduction of the NOx tax? Is it getting more money in the treasury, or is it making the environment better?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-30.ana.ud2641e943	There's a certain tendency to demonize the party's environmental views at any time, instead of dealing with what we're actually saying. We have shown challenges posed by environmental policy by the introduction of peculiar schemes of international environmental considerations, in areas where there is no specific environmental impact to take into account locally. They are only introduced due to e.g.: climate policy. Then I've shown the challenges that Norwegian Forest raised, where they say that strange demands, which make them not part of the woodworking industry, will affect their investment decision in a global market. In the case of gas power plants, we know that requirements for CO2 cleaning at gas power plants from day 1 are a strange requirement, and we know that there are enough investors – Mongstad, Lyse, Industriekraft Møre – to take three concrete examples, which say they can get profitable in this, but they cannot get profitable if they have to take all or much of the cost of CO2 cleaning. By not accepting Norwegian Forest's group director or Hydro Årdal's information director as a truth witness to what the groups mean, I will refer to Rolf Terje Klungland, the representative of the Workers' Party, who said that if CO2 cleaning is required, it will mean that the aluminium industry is moving out, and it will cost billions for Norwegian business. He said that in the evening post last February, and then I think he actually means it, but it is possible that he will also be excluded from them one can quote in a debate like this. Let me underline again: there are no strange demands in all areas. It does not claim to be the Progress Party. However, it is sad that we are trying to deny that in some areas there are indeed strange environmental requirements that have international significance, but not local environmental significance, environmental requirements that create negative effects, and thus may be burdensome for whether or not an enterprise is shut down, and not least for whether or not they choose not to invest again. That's why the realities we're concerned with, so they're the strange parts of environmental legislation, not whether they're strict or not. I can have the world's most stringent environmental rules, but I'm going to know that the consequences of those rules are not that Norwegian industry is just moving out of the country, and that similar production is being created in other parts of the world, because then one has not achieved anything environmental, and one has also had a very bad industrial policy. That's what we've been looking at in some of these areas that have been taken up. It is Hydro Årdal himself who says that the government's policy in this area has been unforeseeable, and there are such things we are trying to fix when we promote this proposal. The Kyoto agreement is an example of a potential for international framework conditions, where the framework itself is not so bad. It does not cover enough countries for the Progress Party to think it is good, but it is positive that it opens up the use of flexible mechanisms between countries to implement measures where they are most useful in terms of costs. But even there the government has said no, and introduces strange rules on e.g. gas power plants.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-30.ana.ud2641e962	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Fooding, see page 2456]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-30.ana.ud2641e978	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines after the intervention of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-30.ana.ud2641e987	The Progress Party has put forward a proposal asking the Government to open up the possibility for all municipalities in the country to apply for participation in attempts at a new management system for outdoor motorcycling until new legislation has entered into force. The Committee has dealt with this matter in the following way: we point out that the motor vehicle test initially covered eight municipalities and was started in 2000. The experiment has been completed and the Norwegian Institute for Natural Research has submitted its evaluation report. The Committee points out that the experience gained from the experiment will be drawn further into the motor vehicle and society project. The majority of the Committee, i.e. all other than the Progress Party, it does not consider that it is necessary to involve several municipalities in the pilot scheme in order to have a good enough professional basis to assess whether and whether a new management model should be chosen for the motorcycling policy. In addition, the majority refers to the letter attached to the recommendation by the Minister for the Environment, where the Ministry of the Environment stresses that the proposal of the Progress Party also has a general dispensation from the Motor Traffic Act. According to the Ministry’s assessment, this does not promote administrative development and is therefore assumed to be outside the scope of the Test Act, as stated. test law § 1. In addition, the testing, if any, must be carried out over a sufficient period of time. One effect may be that ongoing legislative work is delayed, as the results of the experiment should be evaluated and taken into account for the legal work. This is not desirable. In view of this, it is not appropriate to extend the existing testing scheme to all the municipalities of the country, at the discretion of the Ministry. That is why a majority, consisting of all but the Progress Party, has decided to reject the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-30.ana.ud2641e1000	Actually, this is Document No. The 8-proposal, from a total of nine representatives of the Progress Party, something strange. It is very rare that an experimental system is being implemented at the same time in all the municipalities of the country, as proposed by the Progress Party in Document No. 8:57 for 2005-2006. It may seem desirable to bypass today’s legislation to apply full exemption from the Motor Travel Act. Such a procedure does not create good governance. In my home country, there's a lot of snowmobile riding. Of course it is, from geography, a long winter and many cottage owners in the mountain cottage. Of the eight municipalities that were initially part of the pilot scheme, two are resident in the Nordic region. It's Fauske and Hattfjelldal. The test started in 2000 and would last for three years. It has ended overtime, but the experiment continues as work in MoSa, motor travel and society, continues until the autumn of 2006. The test in the two Nordic municipalities has mostly been positive. It has created industries and new jobs, and both of these municipalities have had a good relationship with neighbouring Sweden in terms of cross-border motor traffic. In District Norway, it is important that we make use of the opportunities that we have, even in terms of natural assumptions, in an environmentally friendly way. Tourism winter time with snowmobiles has in many places become very popular. I believe that most people who know about the use of snowmobiles believe that today's legislation on outdoor motorcycling has been passed and needs to be changed to meet the needs of each municipality. We need a predictable and conflictless regulatory framework. We need to get a law that is so understandable that we avoid misunderstandings and, in the worst case, reviews. In addition, municipalities should carry out awareness-raising activities through snowmobile clubs. The municipalities are different, and one way to reverse the law is to regulate motor traffic in the countryside and watercourses so that the administration is linked to the municipal plan according to the Planning and Building Act. I would assume that the Motor Travel Act will be better complied with, and that we can have a more comprehensive motor travel policy, as the municipalities are given greater authority under the Motor Travel Act. In my view, it is urgent to put in place a better motor travel policy. The sale of snowmobiles and other outdoor motor vehicles is increasing every year. It's actually sold 55 000 snowmobiles in Norway, and then it's not a good thing that we're in arrears with a custom law. Then I think not most of the snowmobiles that are in use in the winter, but of the off-road motor vehicles that are used in the field. These vehicles leave tracks in the wild for decades to come. In particular, boisterous terrain is exposed where summer is too short to heal the wounds of nature. Here the municipalities must be aware of their natural responsibility. The Soria Moria Declaration states that we should pursue a restrictive policy in relation to motorised off-road traffic, with measures to reduce the scale of off-road traffic, and that trials should be evaluated before making changes to the legislation. I believe it is right to reject this Document No. The 8th proposal, when the MoSa work ends, as I understand it, in September this year, and the results of this and the evaluation of the experiment will form the basis for further work in the ministry. Many municipalities are anxiously waiting for the ministry to come up with, so this work is urgent.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-30.ana.ud2641e1019	The Party for Progress shall promote, as referred to in Document No: 8:57 for 2005-2006 proposals that all municipalities who so wish may apply for participation in the pilot scheme for a new management system for motorised land, as until the completion of the MoSa project in 2007 or 2008 and until the entry into force of new legislation. Both in respect of local self-government and not least in respect of the facts of the case, it would have been desirable for the Stortinget to adopt the proposals of the Progress Party, which unfortunately is not done. The Progress Party finds it strange that the majority opposes the inclusion of several municipalities in the process of designing a new management system for motorised land. The progress party has noticed that the majority believes it is sufficient that only a little over 1 pst. by the municipalities of the country — seven out of 431 municipalities — will use the scheme until further notice. I would like to ask the Council of State in its statement to explain why in the world it is such that Norway should have so much more stringent legislation for motorised outland transport than for example. Sweden and Finland in the case of snowmobiles. The Progress Party finds this fact quite unreasonable, and we have therefore struggled for a number of years for Norwegian municipalities to decide for themselves whether to set up loop networks for snowmobiles for recreational purposes in their own municipality, as it was until 1988. Thus, in line with issues related to land management in the coastal zone, the Progress Party will also entrust to local self-government to decide how to manage the provisions on motorised land. The Party considers such a management model to be entirely reasonable. We are also of the definite opinion that any municipality without any involvement from the county should be able to authorise, for example. the establishment of a loop network for snowmobiles, a network of recreational and tourist loops. Today’s restrictive snowmobile legislation in Norway is already out of date and the current management model is district hostile. It does not authorize local authorities. There are now some places where so-called wild conditions exist in this area. Still more people ignore the current legislation, precisely because they regard legislation as very unfair. The need for a new regulatory framework to be respected is therefore considerable. Respect for law and justice in this area has become more and more lost, as people discover the positive opportunities that are actually associated with increased commercial and recreational use of snowmobiles. This reality must soon be understood by the political majority, for more and more people are buying and driving snowmobiles in Norway. In 1975 it was registered approx. 6000 such vehicles in Norway. In 1987 there were 30 000. In 2002, there was an increase of 49 000, and today, as mentioned, it is about 49 000. 55,000. So it's almost a tidal fraction of the number since 1975. In addition to this number, there will be a significant number of unregistered snowmobiles. In other words, the number of snowmobiles and snowmobile enthusiasts has almost exploded in Norway in recent years. So the need for a more up-to-date policy on motorised out-landing is now high, and central authorities must recognise that the current policy is more and more in line with developments. Therefore, it is very strange that Norway, with large land areas and unique possibilities for recreational snowmobile rides, has to have the most stringent Nordic legislation in this area. It is almost a parody of misunderstood environmental and district policies. The Progress Party therefore calls for a more flexible approach to snowmobile use, where local government is to be given considerable responsibility for the practice of the existing legislation. Both tourism, business and housing are served by a new management model for motorised driving in outland based on increased local responsibility and authority. The solution is not stricter national guidelines or new prohibitions and restrictions but a pragmatic and more district-friendly approach to current developments. Reforms in this area are now pushing themselves forward, and we can no longer sit calm with our hands in captivity. I am therefore in favour of the motion for a resolution tabled by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities and the motion for a resolution tabled by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the This is an essential part of a process to enhance today's bureaucratic and out-of-date legislation in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-30.ana.ud2641e1034	The representative Torbjørn Andersen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-30.ana.ud2641e1037	The test of extended self-government in the field of motorised outland transport, comprising eight municipalities, was launched in 2000. The test ended and the test was evaluated. On this basis, the Right does not find it particularly appropriate for new, almost eternal, further attempts, where all the municipalities of the country are invited to participate in a scheme that will bear the mark of great temporaryity. From the right, we want to get away from these pilot schemes and into a more permanent policy. We will now have the experience of the pilot schemes on the table, and we would like to see that as a basis for the so-called environmental and social project, it can be a basis for a matter that must be submitted to the Stortinget. That is why, together with the Progress Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left, we are promoting proposal No. 1, where we ask that the case, with the evaluation of the pilot project, be promoted for Stortinget as soon as possible and no later than spring 2007. Our need is now to get into a more permanent phase. That must be the political objective, and that together we can get clarification in the most controversial areas. We need to have a defined policy in this area that can more clearly tell us where – and how – we can develop motorised traffic in Norway, for this, as other speakers have mentioned in the past, has a major impact on the development of, for example, the tourism industry and winter tourism in parts of Norway. At all, the big challenge is how Stortinget's side can help develop Building Norway. It is Right's view that we must now take note that the experiment has been completed and evaluated. That's why I join the Workers' Party's spokeswoman in this area, Torny Pedersen, who says that there is an urgent need to get a case out for the Stortinget. We request that this be put in place, and that the Stortinget should be able to get the big case processed by spring 2007.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-30.ana.ud2641e1051	Unspoiled and undisturbed nature is one of the most peculiar features we have in Norway today. This one is important to take care of. It is then important to control the influence in the case of motorised vehicles. We need a good code for driving out of the country. In many cases, motorised land and water resources serve obvious good utility purposes, such as in agriculture and civil engineering. At the same time, motor travel in outland can lead to a number of disadvantages and injuries such as noise, terrain damage, vegetation wear, disruption of wildlife and conflicts with outdoor life. We have an alarming increase in bar area driving today in many parts of the country. Barriers are becoming a major environmental problem. The Motor Travel Act has as its starting point the prohibition on motorised outlanding and watercourses, unless otherwise provided for by law or by law. It follows from the law that driving on barefield is permitted for police, ambulance and rescue services, and, furthermore, in the case of surveillance and surveillance services, postal and telecommunications services, the exercises of the defence and the transport, construction and operation of roads and regular services. Motor travel in outland is currently also permitted for a number of useful purposes. This applies, for example: the necessary transport of persons and goods in the agricultural, forestry and sewage industries. Then the driving can take place without special permission. You can also apply for a dispensation for driving. In Finnmark and Nord-Troms there is a system of special loops for snowmobiles that can be used regardless of the purpose of the trip, so-called recreational loops. In Finnmark, there's a total of 5,000 kilometers of such loops. In addition, it is possible to establish ice fishing loops, i.e. snowmobile loops for important fish water situated more than 5 km from the broken road. A number of commercial services are permitted. This applies, for example: permanent residents taking on acquisitions, so-called rentals. All of this is per. permitted today. Therefore, it is not as the Progress Party writes in its proposal that value creation and recreation around motorised driving are not very well taken care of. It is also true that there is a flexible attitude towards snowmobile use in Norway. I would like to stress that there is not necessarily a single motorised vehicle that, in isolation, causes significant damage or disadvantages. That's the sum of the many vehicles that will be harmful to nature. For this reason, it is necessary to assess the running of the vehicle from an overall point of view. It is the municipalities that have to fulfil the purpose of the Motor Traffic Act: to protect the natural environment and to promote well-being. All handling of motor travel in municipal plans shall be in accordance with law and national regulations. Understanding the legislation and contributing to the overall objective of the Motor Travel Act is a challenge for municipalities. Equal understanding and practice of legislation should also be ensured, irrespective of parts of the country and different modes of movement on land and at sea. The motor vehicle test was started in eight municipalities, and the Norwegian Institute for Natural Research has presented its evaluation report. The experience gained from the experiment will be included in the further project "Motorferdsel och Samfunn", the so-called MoSa project. These experiences will form the basis for amending current legislation. This is an important matter, and the Christian People's Party therefore asks the Government to present to the Stortinget the completion of the MoSa project, including the evaluation of the pilot project in the eight municipalities that participated in it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-30.ana.ud2641e1070	With a view to protecting the natural environment, in particular in order to avoid run-off and to promote well-being, the Government will pursue restrictive policies in relation to outdoor motor travel. In the light of this policy, existing legislation is under review. The test with a new management system for outland motor travel has been completed. At the end of the pilot scheme, the Ministry of the Environment gave the participating municipalities the opportunity to continue the experimental legislation for up to two years. The reason for this was to avoid unnecessary additional work for the experimental municipalities in the period leading up to any legislative change and to gain further experience in this way of regulating the movement. I refer to the majority of the Committee who consider that it is not necessary to involve several municipalities in a pilot scheme in order to have a good enough professional basis to assess whether a new management model should be chosen. The minority's proposal bears the hallmark of being a general exemption from the Motor Travel Act. Therefore, it is not appropriate to start new trials now. I am now awaiting the report from the project «Motorferdsel and Samfunn» – MoSa. This project takes into account the knowledge and experience of motor travel in a broad sense. By means of an advisory group, an effort is being made to discuss a common position as far as possible on future motorcycling policy. The project is in its final phase, and I have recently been informed that, unfortunately, progress has been somewhat delayed. The report will therefore not be available until the harvest. The Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left have asked the Government to promote a case for the completion of MoSa by the spring of 2007. The evaluation of the experiment and the project will provide the basis for any legislative proposals. Any legislative proposals that have previously been signalled to Stortinget will be promoted at the earliest in the spring 2007 session.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-30.ana.ud2641e1085	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-30.ana.ud2641e1089	The Council of State said in its statement that the Government will pursue restrictive policies in this area. I would like to refer to the Hattfjelldal evaluation report, which includes: states that the open network has little or no impact on vulnerable nature and the environment. For many inland municipalities, the snowmobile is almost comparable to the recreational boat for the coastal population in some places in Norway. We also know that many district municipalities are struggling with relocation, and that both Sweden and Finland have much more liberal rules for snowmobile use in connection with tourism and local economic development. Does the Council not see that some municipalities in terms of management will have a clear advantage of deciding more on how to put up snowmobiles policy, where to lay the groundwork for recreation and tourism and to develop business? Does the Council not see quite clearly that many district councils that are struggling to develop business life, which are struggling with relocation, will benefit from being able to control this legislation itself? And finally, what happens to the seven-eight municipalities that have been involved in the experiment, after the trial is over?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-30.ana.ud2641e1098	It is the evaluation of the experiment and the project that will form the basis for proposals for any changes, so it is too early to say what conclusions we will draw. I think it's important to keep up the intention of the project. The project shall include, inter alia: provide an overview and an overall presentation of the knowledge we have about the consequences of this type of movement for nature and the environment, including recreation and well-being. That's one of the things you're evaluating right now. In addition, it is clear that the project will also assess the different conflicts of interest that we know we are dealing with in the field of motor travel. So all of this is to evaluate and draw conclusions from, and then we're going to get back to the Storing.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-30.ana.ud2641e1105	The representative, Torny Pedersen, said earlier in the debate that a new law is needed, and that we need to have a law that is more liberal, and that is more fulfilling the desire expressed in the Soria Moria Declaration, about more power for local politicians – a issue we also discussed in relation to the debate on wolves, i.e. the right of local politicians to influence their own everyday lives. In the state council posts now, I think she was less clear about whether we need a new, a more liberal, law. I could imagine the Council of State clarifying whether Torny Pedersen is right, as I believe, or whether the Council of State is in doubt as to whether we need more liberal legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-30.ana.ud2641e1112	I fully agree that we need a new regulatory framework in place, and that there is an urgent need to do that work. Therefore, any proposals will be made in the spring 2007 session. I would like to say to me that it is quite crucial what conclusions a draw in the evaluation of the project and the pilot scheme we have now had. It is simply too early to say anything about the concrete conclusions to be drawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-30.ana.ud2641e1119	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-30.ana.ud2641e1124	We who come from the districts have a close and strong bond with the nature in which we live. Closeness to nature is one of our strongest advantages. But bureaucrats and people in Oslo – and also in this room – have placed a number of restrictions on the possibility of using and exploiting this nature. The government wants people to live where they want to. If that's possible, two factors are especially important. One is work, and the other is well-being. The use of snowmobiles is well suited as an example to describe this. Namsskogan and Røyrvik are two small, nutrient-poor municipalities in Inner Namdal in the North Trøndelag with negative population development. Both municipalities have large outreach areas. They launched their scooter project at the same time as the national pilot project on the Motorferls Act was launched. They have been working for several years to create a snowmobile for recreation. The measure is seen as one of the most important single factors for a viable whole-year business life in the municipalities. At the same time, they experience strong competition from Sweden. The actors do not want here a release of motorised travel in the field, and the wish for a legal basis according to the law of the plan and of the building can not be described exactly as a release. Run along forest roads and common roads, which both increase safety and reduce natural interventions. It does not therefore affect areas defined as wilderness. These are measures that are also important in relation to the other factor: well-being and housing. An offer of recreation with snowmobiles is seen as an important factor in wellbeing and an argument for housing in all age groups. Older people also see this as an opportunity to get into nature and enjoy the experiences it can give. And disabled people can feel safer driving on ready-prepared runs. We in the districts understand that such a change needs to be carefully assessed and that the project needs to be carried out in sufficient time. At the same time, such projects must not be too late. I believe that the proposal of the Progress Party has been completely rejected, as it is already well known. In fact, such a decision may delay the whole process. What is important now is that those responsible get the speed up, and that the government is fast on the trigger when the report is presented.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-30.ana.ud2641e1139	Motorized travel in the outfield is quite a source of interest out in District Norway, which was the last speaker. There's a lot of illegality around this, so it's important to get a little bit of speed in a new review of the law. I can refer to a case from Åmött Municipality that is quite interesting. Against the municipality of Hedmark is perhaps the defence municipality no. 1st@item: inlistbox There, a field of fire has been built that affects the environment in the region. Here is also a landowner, with a land that is completely adjacent to the shooting area, who wants to establish an off-road auto-offroad centre. It's part of a regulation plan, and it's part of the entire nutrition campaign in Åmött municipality. The centre is now powered by a dispensation. This case has now been pending between the county and the landowner/municipality for three to four years and, according to the landowner, the base of the case has become 45 cm high. This is an example of how difficult it is to achieve nutrition development in District Norway, and it is an example of how much conflict one can create out of such a case. In the vicinity of this shooting range, I don't think anyone will claim that you'll ever be able to sell peace and quiet as a product. Here, everything should be right for you to be able to make just such a professional off-road centre. The matter now stands here: the municipality stands on its own – it stands together with the landowner – and wants development, while, as far as I know, the County and the Ministry of Environment are just as hard on their own. Here it is just shown that local politicians know how to take responsibility. They have designed a regulatory plan. They have put this in a business perspective in the municipality and want a development – and are thus stopped. Now I understood the Council of State so that a conclusion will be presented about these experimental municipalities during 2007. My recommendation is that we go for proposal No. 1, made by the minority. Then an evaluation is carried out quickly, and a positive development may be achieved in the form of developing motorised outland traffic.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-30.ana.ud2641e1150	This case has much in common with case No. 1 before today. This is about rural policy, and it is about quality of life – but quality of life under responsibility. In many municipalities engaged in tourism, agriculture and construction, snowmobiles are well used. Especially for the tourism industry, an extended permit for snowmobile riding will be a large plus. Today many travel to Sweden and drive there. They hire themselves, buy services of different kinds, and spend a lot of money. This marks, for example: Trysil in Hedmark, where demand is high, but where offers are not available. Then you travel a few miles into Sweden. This means that we lose jobs and income. It hampers a good rural policy with a wide range of services, thus enabling it to increase tax revenue. In this way it would be thought that other parties would support the proposal – perhaps the central party is the party that should have supported it the most. It may appear that this document No. The 8 proposal does not get a majority in the Stortinget. It might look like everything that's going on is fy. All this motorsport and motorcycling stuff is too many a big hobby. I can mention that the event Gatebil, in Våler in Solør, this weekend gathered approx. 17,000 spectators. You have to look for other events that gather so many people out in the districts for a long time. Back to the proposal: a yes to this will stimulate the various activities, which in turn will lead to good rural policy and good quality of life. Finally, some of the speakers have mentioned bar-landing. That's not what this is about. There is no great desire for freer use of this type of driving. Here's the winter/snowmobile ride it's all about.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-30.ana.ud2641e1163	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox The size goes to voting. [[Fooding, see page 2456]] If the representatives sit down, it's easier to keep track of where they are.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-30.ana.ud2641e1175	Then it seems that the Storting is ready for voting. However, the President will ask the representatives to come and sit when voting is called. Now we have used four minutes – unnecessary if everyone had been sitting in advance. That's why we're calling a little earlier, so we'll try to save the Storting for waiting while someone makes sure that the Storing is properly composed.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-30.ana.ud2641e1183	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No I, by Mr Lien, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-30.ana.ud2641e1208	It is then voted on the proposals of the Right and Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-30.ana.ud2641e1253	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No I, by Mr Solvik-Olsen, on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Progressive Democrats and of the Right, no. 2, from Ketil Solvik-Olsen on behalf of the Progress Party
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-30.ana.ud2641e1278	Proposal No. 1, from the Party of Advancement and the Right, says: ‘The Government is regularly asked to review Norwegian environmental requirements in relation to the international competition of Norwegian companies in other OECD countries, and to present this review in the Government Environmental Policy and State of the State’.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-30.ana.ud2641e1309	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Torbjørn Andersen on behalf of the Progress Party, Right, Christian People's Party and Left Amendment No. 2, from Torbjørn Andersen on behalf of the Progress Party
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-30.ana.ud2641e1334	Proposal No. 1, from the Party of Advancement, from the right, from the Christian Party, and from the left, says: ‘The Government asks the Government to bring an action for the completion of ‘Motor trade and society’ [[MoSa]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-30.ana.ud2641e1369	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word under Section 37(a) of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? – The meeting has been cancelled
