ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-29-lower.ana.ud2185e37	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 40 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that there be a change of lines of up to five lines after the Council of State's inauguration within the allocated speaking time. In addition, it is proposed that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the time allocated, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It’s to look at as affirmative.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-29-lower.ana.ud2185e46	This issue concerns a single issue in the Media Ownership Act, namely whether we should lower the national level of ownership from 40 pst. to 33 pst. This correction of the rules does not come as a big surprise. The government parties have been signaling that this is their position since we dealt with the media communication, and it is almost expected that such a proposal will now be promoted. The other positions of the parties are also known from the debates we have had at previous crossroads. I assume that the individual parties explain their positions. The perspective here is, of course, a common desire for good conditions for a public debate and for diversity of opinion. At the previous crossroads — when the Media Ownership Act was passed today — Stortinget advocated a very comprehensive regulatory framework, which introduced rules on cross-ownership and regional regulation. The regional breakdown decision was made on a principle basis and the Stortinget did not know the size of the regions at that time. From the Right's point of view, it's important to see the whole code together. The change in one threshold, in this case the national one, of course, has an impact on the whole, and the restriction we are now seeing comes at the top of very tactile restrictions at regional level. Overall, this means, in the opinion of the Right, that we are now getting an unnecessary stringency of legislation. The right-hand starting point is that we raise questions about whether ownership regulations like this are necessary at all. We believe that the provisions of the Competition Act and the legalisation of the Editorial plaque will, according to judgment, provide more flexible solutions, with greater room for appropriate owner constellations. Once we have the ownership law, we believe that the limit of 40 pst. is a strategically good limit, because it probably describes a frontier country where competition rules would also have started to work if someone approached this ceiling. In the formulation of future policies in this area, it could have provided us with important experience that could have been useful in assessing competition law and the action of competition authorities in this area. The media area is in a strong transition, both in relation to the platforms from which information is sent and in relation to the audience is used by the information. Today's reality is that the paper newspaper is experiencing increasing competition from other media, not least the online newspapers, which are about to take the paper newspapers again. So the local media houses have to go out offensively on other platforms. If quality is to be maintained, this means that local and regional actors must also have a rather strong economic back to deliver good quality. The audience is more selective than in the past, and the demand for product and availability quality is therefore essential for maintaining a good public conversation, as a result of the fact that the audience then of course uses the media. Issues relating to an increasingly selective audience will become increasingly sensitive in the coming years, and should enter into an important debate on the public conversation vis-à-vis our democratic system. The right considers today's media policy instruments to be out of date. We want a media policy based on the good publishing traditions we have in our country, which frees the cancers and stimulates innovation, to growth from below. Therefore, the proposed amendments are in line with the right. We want to legislate the Editor's poster and propose it. We also believe it is important to look at regional and local regulations as they work, and so the Right will also support the Left's proposals on this. I am addressing the proposals to which the Right is a co-sponsor.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-29-lower.ana.ud2185e76	The representative, Olemic Thommess, has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-29-lower.ana.ud2185e79	Media pluralism and freedom of expression are important to make our democracy work. Therefore, the Labour Party believes that we need to use active instruments to ensure this through our own legislation for ownership in the media, but also through the use of economic instruments such as press support and the VAT compensation system. In the Soria Moria Declaration, we made it clear that the Government wants to pursue a policy to counteract an excessive concentration of ownership and power in the media, and that it would therefore come back in line with changes in the Media Ownership Act. In this area, we have to say that the Government has now delivered the legislative proposal we are now discussing tonight, which will help limit the national ceiling for ownership in Norwegian media to 1/3. It is also in line with the Government Party's proposals in the context of the Ot.prp treatment. No 81 for 2003–04, where we went against raising the national ownership ceiling to 40pst. By reversing the decision on a national limitation of ownership down to 1/3, we believe, in contrast to the rapporteur of the case, Mr Thommessen, that the law is more logically structured in relation to the other types of restrictions of ownership of the law, among others. bound up with the ambition of a three-track principle. The Labour Party believes that the national boundaries of ownership concentration are important to promote freedom of expression and diversity of opinions and to allow people to obtain information through many independent and different sources. We believe that these reasons are best safeguarded by the fact that national ownership does not exceed 1/3. A limit of 40 pst. the Workers' Party believes that a major player can be given too much dominance both in the media market and in the advertising market. For example, the Media Authority has carried out a calculation that shows a limit of 40 p.m. may result in one and the same group being controlled in eight of the 10 largest newspapers in the country. In addition, it is worth noting that one of the common features of European media policy is precisely the 1/3 restriction on national ownership. The Christian People's Party supports the proposal to change the national ceiling to 1/3. It is reassuring that our national media policy is so widely supported in the United Kingdom. However, it is interesting to note that the former government partners of the Bondevik II government are completely separate from the media policy. The Christian People's Party finds its old partners in media policy, the Right seeks together with the Advance Party and will repeal the entire codecision law, while the Left is behind Bondevik II's media policy. It tells me that the media policy of the previous government was a big compromise, resulting in an unbalanced media policy. But we're now going to get this fixed up in. The right-hand side’s proposal to repeal the entire Media Ownership Act in conjunction with their desire to remove the press support would, if they had received a majority, result in a monopoly of Norwegian media ownership and a rapprochement of Avis-Norway. The market cannot regulate this alone. Active measures and support schemes are necessary for the media pluralism and the flow of information upon which a living democracy depends. That is why a large majority in the European Parliament, with the exception of the Advancement Party and the Right, are fortunately in favour of an active policy to ensure freedom of expression and the media's diversity with economic and regulatory instruments. It is important to point out that there is no shortage of readers that is the problem for those newspapers that are struggling financially, but the advertising market, that are failing. The market does not function in relation to what readers experience as a valuable source of information and debate. That is why we must continue to have an active policy, and I am therefore pleased that such a broad majority is behind the Government's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-29-lower.ana.ud2185e105	This is not the first time that provisions of the Media Ownership Act have been discussed in this Chamber, which includes the national ceiling on media ownership. The question has been debated for a number of years under varying governments. Only in my time in the Culture Committee has it been on the agenda several times – among others. in connection with the media communication. In the Progress Party, we have noticed that the Government of Bondevik II of the Sem Declaration said that it would work for maximum freedom of establishment in the media industries to ensure diversity and competition, and that the monitoring of competition in the media sector should be left to the Competition Authority. This is a view supported by the Advance Party in the previous proceedings on the case. However, these intentions of the Sem Declaration were not followed up in the proposal for amendments to the Media Ownership Act promoted by Bondevik II. We're disappointed in this. There was only an increase in the national ownership threshold for a medium to 40 p.p., while in some cases the legal thresholds were in practice lowered by regulation of cross-ownership and multimedia ownership. A new competition law was adopted with the signature of the case-rapporteur during the previous enlargement period, which introduced bans on anti-competitive cooperation and abuse of market power. The prohibitions cover all industrial activities, including the media sector. The instruments of the media ownership law in force are of the same type as those adopted by the Competition Act. So you have an unnecessary double fuse. I fear that the current legislation on media ownership, with the proposed changes from the current government, will not lead to diversity and competition, but stagnation and confusion. The Progress Party believes that we can deal with the Competition Act, along with a law enforcement of the Editor's poster. The Progress Party believes that an important measure for the preservation of diversity in the media is a strengthening of the principles of the Editorial plaque, and it is a good time since the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee of the Stortinge asked the Government to draw up and promote a legislative proposal to legislate on its principles. I feel sure that this would be an effective legal protection of editorial freedom, even in relation to foreign-owned media companies in Norway, where there are other traditions than the Norwegians that characterize ownership. It is also clear that such a system as the Progress Party proposes will not weaken the economic opportunities for continued Norwegian media ownership. Why did this clockwork on the Competition Act see as a suitable piece of legislation? Indeed, because competition authorities have a long experience of work in relation to different sectors, including the media sector, and are well equipped for the follow-up to cooperation and structural changes in the media sector. So that's why we're in favour of winding up our own rules and own supervision of media ownership. These tasks and functions should be included under Competition Surveillance and the Competition Act. I think it is a bit alarming when the Workers' Party's representative claims that such a legal regime as the Advance Party sketches will lead to a rapture and a monopoly of the media industry. It's strange because the Labour Party in all other industries says that the Competition Act is more than good enough to ensure that you don't get a monopoly. At the end of the day, I was actually going to make some suggestions, but the case-rapporteur has already mentioned the proposals in which the Progress Party is involved, so I just want to say that it is natural for the Progress Party, since we are opponents of the law in its entirety, to vote against the title of the law and the law in its entirety if it comes up to voting, and to ask that it be put up to it in voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-29-lower.ana.ud2185e122	The President shall see to it that it is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-29-lower.ana.ud2185e125	I record that old actors are back on track, and that may be a bit good too. SV is pleased that the Media Ownership Act is now being amended to reduce the national ownership limit from 40 pst. to 33 pst. SV believes that this is a good way to regulate a heated media market – a media market with actors who seem to race to buy each other. SV believes that the one-third restriction on national ownership helps to ensure that we have several major players in the media market. For those of us who are concerned with freedom of expression, it is in principle important that there are several actors, so that one does not get monopolistic states for opinions. In order to ensure media diversity, a diversity of owners is important and monopoly formations are avoided in larger geographical areas. Ownership restriction is therefore one important instrument, production aid and press support another. There are several examples of one player owning most local newspapers, regional newspapers, Internet portals, local TV and local radio. Such a concentration of ownership is not fortunate in relation to the diversity of opinion and freedom of expression. Taking advantage of the precautionary principle of national media ownership constraints will help to preserve and strengthen media pluralism, freedom of expression and real expression into the future. A suspension or a weakening of the national ceiling may lead to a reduction of ownership in Norwegian media. It may also be that Norwegian media companies can become more interesting as buying-in objects for foreign investors. The change in national media ownership to 1/3 ensures continued real competition in the Norwegian media market regardless of whether it is Norwegian or foreign ownership. SV believes that responsibility for the framework of democracy and freedom of expression cannot be left to the market alone. The State, in dialogue with civil society, has overall responsibility for building public space. The responsibility of the authorities to facilitate channels and institutions for an open and informed conversation is an important prerequisite for genuine freedom of expression for all. A law of the Editor's poster has been working for many years. As the SV’s representative in the Culture Committee for the period 1997-2001 and as a representative of the Control and Constitution Committee for the previous period, when the Stortinget dealt with the freedom of expression message, I – and SV – have been zealous advocates of legalising the Editorial plaque, as part of strengthening the principle of editorial independence, which is under pressure in several media environments, because the bottom line is an increasingly important value. SV believes lawmaking is an important step if future owners give us stronger and more dominant owners without the same anchoring in the principle of editorial freedom that we are accustomed to here in Norway. SV knows that the Government is working on such drafting of a bill for the Editor's poster, and therefore believes that it is unnecessary for the opposition to present a proposal for the Storting right now. During the previous treatment of the law, SV was quite clear that we wanted an evaluation of the media situation after the changes in the law to see if it works after the intention. We will therefore, together with the other two government parties, keep the situation under review and point out any negative consequences or necessary adjustments that may occur. The media market is changing continuously and very rapidly, so some static situation will never be in this sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-29-lower.ana.ud2185e142	In the autumn of 2004, Stortinget adopted a new section 100 on freedom of expression in the Constitution. The paragraph had remained unchanged since the Constitution saw the light of day in 1814, so it was time for a change. Developments in the media field have, to put it mildly, been enormous during this period. Technological developments and other developments have provided the media with a breakthrough and a social role that the owners could not have imagined. The central statistical agency can tell that the Nordics spent 7 hours and 2 minutes on the mass media on an average day in 2005. Following the change, Section 100 of the Constitution states, inter alia: that the State has an obligation to facilitate an open and informed public conversation. Although this is a responsibility that the government has had in practice for many years, for example: through media policy, basic legislation implies both an important symbolic mark and an important practical reality. The rule obliges government and enlargement to focus on freedom of expression when dealing with legislation or budgetary issues that have an impact on the media. Lawmaking of the Editorial plaque is an important measure for the preservation of media diversity. As early as January 1998, the Ministry of Culture issued a draft consultation on the legalisation of the principle of editorial freedom. After the Legal Department of the Ministry of Justice in the hearing stated that the proposal would be contrary to the then Constitution, the matter was naturally put on ice for a period of time. So, during the discussion of the media release in 2002, Stortinget renewed its support for a proposal to legislate on the principles of the Editorial plaque, subject to the adoption of a constitutional rule that opened this up. It is now clear that the new Section 100 of the Basic Law does not prevent the legalisation of the principle of editorial freedom in the media. Media investment is currently taking place both across borders and across previously defined sector boundaries. With an increased diversity of different media we will see an increasingly complex media market. The rule of law on editorial freedom must first and foremost be understood as a leading rule of good practice, and it would be naive to believe that in the future all media market actors will have the same respect and understanding of the principle of editorial freedom as Norwegian media have traditionally had. According to the view of the Christian People's Party, a law can strengthen the position of the editors' institute and thus become an important supplement to the Media Ownership Act. The Media Ownership Act shall be an effective tool to protect media pluralism and freedom of expression, while not undermining the economic activities of media companies. When controlling what gets through the media, it gets on a few hands, it can undermine the media diversity. A very dominant ownership position in the media market gives an impact on opinion that, if exploited, can undermine the democratic decision-making processes of society. Although the editor is free and independent, he or she is employed by a board of directors, where the interests are well represented. In other words, the owner has an opportunity to influence the editorial profile indirectly. Therefore, it is important to maintain a differentiated ownership structure. In view of freedom of expression and media pluralism, the Christian People's Party believes that it is important to avoid a reduction from three to two major players in the media market in Norway. There are different reasons to have national ownership limits of both 40 pst. and 1/3, but after an overall assessment, the Christian People's Party will support the Government's proposal for changes to the Media Ownership Act. In conclusion, I would like to point out one aspect that I think the department is wise to look at, namely, where the concentration of the owner includes several levels. This can be done by a national media company purchasing and ensuring full control in e.g.: one or more regional media enterprises which may already have a dominant position in their territory, for they also have, on their part, interests in local media. It will reinforce the suspicious aspects of ownership concentration if we also get a combination of regional and national dominance. At the same time, in terms of media diversity and diverging societal premises, there are strong regional media companies in addition to national groups. This will not least contribute to ensuring robust periphery voice versus centre of the Norwegian media community, the last often referred to by the name of a known street not so far from here. It is essential that regional media remain independent and independent of national actors. I also hope that this will be added to the emphasis in the practice of the law.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-29-lower.ana.ud2185e163	It is at the heart of the Central Party's media policy that we want to ensure a free and independent press, take care of the shortage and have a spread of ownership in the media. In our view, the goal is a good description of what the media landscape in Norway actually looks like today. The centre party wants to hold on and strengthen this structure. A good way to contribute to it is to ensure a good law that supports that objective. The amendments proposed by the Government to the Media Ownership Act today are a good tool in this way. It helps prevent an actor from gaining too much dominance in the media and advertising market. This change has been supported both by the Selection of the Ownership Committee in NOU 1995:3 and by the majority of the Hearing Officers. We also know that change corresponds in a good way to what is perceived as common practice at European level. A change from 40 pst. To one third as a national upper ownership limit is in no way an expression of distrust towards the current owners, but a desire to strengthen the scattered ownership we have. This is also in line with the position previously held by the Centre Party in this matter. In the notes, the Right selects to leave the platform on which the former government stood in this case, and with the Progress Party, take a fundamental stand against the Code. The Christian People's Party is involved in supporting the government party in the change, while the Left chooses to take the existing ownership rule in defence. The argument to the left builds, among other things. it is important to provide the necessary room for development also on the owner’s side. Since the Left is going to have the word pretty soon, I allow myself to ask the Left if they will lead the same argument for an additional change in direction of a larger ownership if one of the largest actors would reach a 40 pst.-limit. And if you don't, what argument will you make to base a limit of 40 pst? ? Let me just briefly mention the Editorial poster. From the Center Party's side, we are pleased with the work being done by the Department when it comes to the law fixing of the principle in the Editor's poster. Recent decisions in this Chamber and the debate here today show that the Government has great support for that work. The well-supported opposition to show through a proprietary suggestion, and it's hard for us to interpret as something other than a happy enthusiasm and a visible support for the work that the Government is already doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-29-lower.ana.ud2185e174	I can reassure Mr Sande that the Left is quite stagnant and stable in this matter. I'll come back to that a little bit more. The media world is developing enormously, and our media policy is being challenged by the enormous development. And since the Council of State has prioritised this as perhaps one of its most important issues to present to the Grand Council in the first year as the Council of State, I'm a little tired because someone chooses to use that opportunity just to reverse something that the previous government did. But the main goal of the new government is to reverse everything that the old man did. What's going on here is that the enormous technological development makes us use the media in a completely different way from what we did in the past. I want to draw lines to the interpellation debate we had in the previous case that was dealt with here in the hall, namely to the Grieg anniversary. In a world of major public broadcasters, in a world where the media is largely designed to meet everyone, the goal will be to reach information for everyone in a given field. With the huge fragmentation you see in today's media policy, we see that we will go much more in and surf for the kind of news we want to get. It will set completely different requirements for the generalisation of society, with reference to our education and cultural policy in general, but it will also make demands on how we develop our media policy at such a time. It's a big challenge, which I would have liked the Council of State to have promised rather than use its energy to reverse old decisions. Ownership is, of course, very important as a means of ensuring freedom of expression, of ensuring democracy and freedom of the press. But there are also other steps that are important to strengthen this in the future. That's why we've made a proposal to legislate the Editor's poster, and I have to say that I'm a little surprised that you're standing here and saying you're very much in favour of it, but I'd really like to vote against it. But then it might be appropriate to ask questions to the Council of State via the President if the Council of State wants to promote a case on this, as SV wants, because that's not everything that SV wants in this government. Then there are several who have pointed out that the old government parties have separated layers. I guess that's just what I think underlines the power of the Left in the previous government, that it was the Left's position that won out. But it is also linked to the long tradition of the Left in being a champion of freedom of expression, freedom of the press and the rights in that particular area. Then I would like to promote the proposal on which the Left stands alone, and which I hope others will also support when we come to the vote. It is about the challenges that lie not only on the big lines of media policy, but also on the small regional units, and today's law may not be perfect in relation to the new challenges facing it. I also hope that maybe some of the other parties can make up their mind and vote for what they are for in terms of the Editorial plaque, if the Council of State is not aware of what it is he wants to do with this. In that case, it would be nice if the Council of State had had any desire for a development in this area to meet the new challenges and not just reverse what the other has done.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-29-lower.ana.ud2185e190	The representative of Trine Skei Grande has drawn up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-29-lower.ana.ud2185e193	I'm glad that the committee majority now goes in to lower the limit of ownership in the media to 33 pst. of the national daily press, television or radio markets. Although the change will not immediately have major practical consequences, with this, we are setting a fundamental very important limit. The Media Ownership Act shall ensure transparency and trust in the public debate on society. The law shall ensure the possibility of getting people involved and the ability of people to obtain information through many independent and different sources with different assessments and priorities. It is the Government’s belief that this can best be ensured with a national limit of 1/3: Today's limit of 40 pst. allows one operator to have a very high degree of dominance in the media market and in the advertising market. For example, the law opens per. today to allow one actor to control eight of the 10 largest newspapers in the country. The law also allows one actor to control the majority of the private television and radio market and thus the broadcasting advertising market. In the long term, this may undermine the position of other actors.A situation with one very dominant player also reduces the likelihood of the creation of new owner environments in Norway.1/3 is also one of very few common features in European regulation of media ownership.In addition, a large and dominant media player is likely to be a more interesting buy-in object for the foreign media player than a company that is part of a media market with diversity and competition. I note that the representatives of the Committee on the Right and the Left believe that the proposal ‘appears to be fragmentary’ because the different boundaries of the law have been assessed to a small extent against each other. I want to turn this around and claim that with this proposal, we are correcting a clear bias in the law. The government parties opposed the Bondevik government's proposal to raise the limit to 40 pst. in the previous round. I suspect that this very proposal was not based on such an overall assessment as the Right and Left are now calling for, but was simply a political compromise in the previous government. The Christian People's Party's support for the Government's proposal here today is such an interesting signal. A limit of 1/3 was the clear Council of the Committee of Ownership in 1995, which was followed by the Government of Jagland, adopted in the United Kingdom in 1997 and practised by the Supervisory Authority from its entry into force in 1999 until 1 January 2005. It has always been an underlying objective of the Media Ownership Act to maintain at least three major groupings of owners in the Norwegian media sector. As I also insisted during the big debate on the Bondevik government's proposal for changes to the law, the logical consequence of this goal would be to keep the limit of 1/3. I record that some of the opposition parties also want an assessment of other rules in the ownership law, including: the issue of cross-ownership and regional ownership constraints. It was not part of the letter of consultation that we sent out in connection with the preparation of the proposal, and so it was unnatural to address those questions, even though some of the hearing bodies took it up. It may need to be done on another occasion. I also record that part of the opposition parties is occupied by the Editorial plaque. It was well in a question-answering round with the representative Skei Grande – or was it Olemic Thommessen, now I don't quite remember – that I said in the Stortinget a short time ago that we are preparing a draft consultation with proposals for the legalization of the Editor's poster. Then it seems strange to me and contrary to the usual practice in Stortinget that a Roman proposal is still being promoted to get a vote on it, when the government has notified you that you are working on the matter. It is unnecessary in my view.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-29-lower.ana.ud2185e225	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-29-lower.ana.ud2185e228	We have now focused on regulation on all bows and edges, and the Council of State has told us a lot about the excellence of regulation. I think we can see that we're about to create a whole where the shirt is getting quite tight. If we look at the possibilities of developing good local ownership and good local businesses with the economic back to deliver the quality needed within the media, we need to take some of the signals we have received seriously. Not least the centre-periphery dimension on which Lånke was involved. Does the Council of State see that there may be a problem that ownership is being misplaced, and could the Council of State envisage compensating for this by changing the approach to radio concessions, to take one platform, to provide a basis for greater ownership and stronger ownership in that area?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-29-lower.ana.ud2185e235	Obviously, when we discuss the ownership law, we get a lot of focus on the limit of how much an actor can own. It is important to stress that ownership restrictions do not relate to the ability of a mediaeconian to grow. You can grow beyond 1/3, and beyond 40 pst. for that matter, but it regulates acquisitions. It regulates the possibility of a large group to become very dominant by purchasing other media companies. I am really primarily concerned with good ownership. We've got a good medieconser in Norway. Both Schibsted, Orkla and the A-press have solid publishing traditions and objectives. So we're privileged. But we don't know if it's for all eternity. We know that large groups change owners, and right in these days we see that the next largest is for sale. The local development of multimedia properties and the publication of their news in different media groups is a development that will be reinforced and for which we need to facilitate. Whether it should be done through a different practice – through radio concessions, or how we should do it – I'm not going to take it here. But I agree with the questioner that there is an important dimension in the development of Media Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-29-lower.ana.ud2185e242	There seems to be some consensus that efforts are being made to avoid high levels of ownership in order to strengthen media pluralism and ensure freedom of expression in society in line with the Constitution. I belong to those who think it is positive that you now choose to go down to 1/3 national ownership restrictions. I am also a little surprised – like other speakers – when I record at the same time that the Council of State has gone out and said that it is okay that we go down to two large media owners in Norway. I find it strange that you can combine this strategy. My question to the Council of State Giske goes on what I was about in my post. You can imagine -- I don't know how much you've looked at it now -- that national companies buy up regionally. We need robust media houses and media companies in the regions, but if it's reinforced by getting a national owner of them, it'll create an unfortunate concentration. Why hasn't the Council of State taken this up?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-29-lower.ana.ud2185e249	It is in the nature of the matter when we reduce the national ownership limit, that there is a little less opportunity for the big ones to buy small media companies around. I think, for example: local ownership of many media companies is a very positive thing. We know that from the region that I and the representative Lånke are from: good owners who have a long-term and publicity vision with their ownership. Ownership restrictions could also, to some extent, underpin local ownership by the fact that the large groups cannot freely buy up in the small media companies. Now we know that they are already in many of the small media companies with smaller holdings, and I think that often gives a positive interaction between local ownership and the competence of the groups. At all, I would like to stress that the amendment of the law is not a result of a dissatisfaction with the media owners we have in Norway today. On the contrary, I would like to stress that we have good media owners in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-29-lower.ana.ud2185e258	No more words have been asked for a line. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to three minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-29-lower.ana.ud2185e263	It is a very important matter that is being dealt with here today in the Chamber, because the discussion is really the traditional one, between those who believe in market forces, and those who need politicians to be something more than the Progress Party called'sellers' earlier in this Chamber. I am surprised that a party that is set up to reduce taxes and is opposed to public regulation is involved in the proposals that are in today's position, and I want to justify it a little bit. It is extremely important for society, for the media and for politicians that we have a press that is free, that writes freely and that is also actively critical of power. It is important internationally, nationally and locally. I have not registered that someone from the civil side e.g. have asked questions about the fact that in South Africa we have mainly one newspaper that is market-leading, where the editor is named the ‘Most powerful man in the South’ and writes mostly exactly what he wants. Journalists respond to what is of interest to the newspaper, and from that the newspaper determines much of the political agenda in the South. I think, for example, that the fatherland friend is in the process of getting an impression that state politicians have no effect, and that mainstreaming politicians from Agder are really just some latsabs who don't want to do anything. Therefore, it is important to have more models, nationally, regionally and locally, which allow new media to be launched. And even in that situation, giving tax credits to those who are already established will lead to the emergence of new newspapers. Then it's the toolbox and the tools that are targeted, that will lead to us getting it, and I hope that the Government will focus on their further work.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-29-lower.ana.ud2185e272	The last representative’s anger at the fact that the Friend of the Fatherland is alone in the arena is just proof that the Media Ownership Act has not worked. So we have both a law and a system that actually doesn't work. I think there are eight places in Norway that have more than one newspaper, and the growth of new newspapers and new media houses is very, very small. That should be a reflection. These include: that we are not able to place ownership rationally and well. One problem with respect to growth is that what the Council of State indirectly had to say is that there is no problem for the big ones to grow bigger within and in and for themselves also beyond the framework, as long as they grow for their own machine, but it is a problem to buy others. And then it's actually a problem from an entrepreneurial point of view, when you're going to start a newspaper or a local radio, that you're shutting down potential buyers. It's hard, and you lose the incentive to make people invest in the business that's going to grow. It's a pretty big problem that we're going to get accentuated in the years to come. The consequence of the system we have today, that we are lubricating the richest with even more press support, and putting all the bars that imagination can handle in relation to the growth and placement of ownership, is that we are going to have a series of media monopolies locally. Because we also have a system of ownership law like what we have, there is every reason to doubt that the competition authorities are going to move in the way that they should move. We're in that track – we've been in that track for 30 years. If after so long a time you don't manage to see the consequences of it, you should sit down and research a little bit more into this matter, because the course we're at, leads nowhere, other than to monopoly. What we need are instruments that actually make it easier to start business, which instead of sedentating structures, open up new initiatives. Instead of having a press support that gives money to old actors, we should have had a press support that enables new players to start. Instead of having a code that closes the purchasing possibilities, which closes the possibility of building local media houses, we should have a code that actually opened up good locations and for good local investment. It would give a greater media diversity.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-29-lower.ana.ud2185e281	The scheduled time for the evening meeting is over. The President will propose that Odelstinget continue until today's map has been processed. – It’s to look at as affirmative. No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-29-lower.ana.ud2185e291	The odelsting shall then vote on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-29-lower.ana.ud2185e299	A total of four proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by the representative Olemic Thommess on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left Amendment No. 2, by the representative, Olemic Thommess, on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right and the Left, motion No. 3, by the representative, Olemic Thommess, on behalf of the Progress Party and Right-wing Proposal No. 4, from the representative of Trine Skei Grande on behalf of the Left
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-29-lower.ana.ud2185e379	The President here will alternately vote between the recommendation of the Committee and proposal No. 2, from the Progress Party, Right and Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Government’s proposal for amendments to the Law of 13 June 1997 No 53 on media ownership are rejected.’ The Christian People's Party has warned that they will support the recommendation.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-29-lower.ana.ud2185e397	It's going to go above the title of the law and promise at all. The Progress Party, Right and Left have been notified that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-29-lower.ana.ud2185e411	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-29-lower.ana.ud2185e422	There is no record available. Does anyone ask for the word under Section 37a of the Rules of Procedure before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting has been cancelled.
