ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e24	The President will inform Stortinget that the President is informed that the Ombudsman of the Defence and Civilian Service, Dagfinn Hearts, has fallen away. This is for Storting's orientation. The requested alternate of the State of Oppland, Morten Ørsal Johansen, has taken the seat. The representative, Mr Solvik-Olsen, will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e34	I would like to make a proposal on behalf of Tord Lien, Torbjørn Andersen, Gjermund Hagesetter and myself to reduce taxes on electricity in periods of high electricity prices.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e39	The representative, Martin Engeset, will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e42	On behalf of the representative Erna Solberg and myself, I would like to make a proposal to extend the scheme of disability benefit as a wage subsidy.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e47	The representative Anders Anundsen will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e50	I am delighted to make proposals from the representatives of Jon Jäger Gåsvatn, Åse M. Schmidt and myself to introduce free school choices for all high school students.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e55	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e79	On Monday, the Stortinget received a message from the Prime Minister's office that Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg will meet for oral Question Time. The Prime Minister is present, and we are ready to start the oral questioning process. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, would like to ask questions of substance. – We then start with the first main questions, from the representative, Siv Jensen.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e88	Today, we read the following statements from a trustee at a company in Norway: ‘For a year with this government, the toolbox is even thinner’. ‘We do not ask for State aid or special arrangements.’ Good quotes, especially after we heard yesterday at Dagsrevyen the Minister of Industry say that the government had now fulfilled its promises of an active industrial policy. It seems that the government is bringing a few million dollars to a non-profit fund after the closure of jobs is a fact. It is, according to my concepts, not active industrial policy, but rather a form of industrial policy gravitational support. If it's the government's definition of filling the toolbox, I might think it might be interesting to hear the Prime Minister's assessment of it, or if it's the way to give government money to set up a new door factory, which can create trouble for other door factories, which, of course, must mean that the Minister of Industry has to run there with new industrial policy gravitational support schemes, is an active enterprise policy. In other words, it is not as easy to see this active business policy as the government talked about throughout the election campaign, and as it has written a lot about in the Soria Moria Declaration, which it may be useful to take forward and read a little at once – I don't think the Prime Minister has done for a while. In other words, there is a sea of speck between all that the government has said it should do, and what the government is now doing. It creates unrest, it creates unforeseeableness, and it creates a gap in the perception of how the Government plans to secure safe, stable and profitable jobs in the future. It must be unpleasant for the Prime Minister to sit in a permanent spat, where the policy appears to be so awkward that it hardly comes to the fore.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e100	The basic objectives of industrial policy are to ensure high employment, low unemployment and high value creation. I am absolutely sure that the policy of the Government is now leading, is just contributing to it, that many are at work, that unemployment is falling, and that the value creation in Norway is high. With regard to the basic objectives of any industrial policy, we are achieving those objectives, and we are achieving them better in Norway than in many other countries. Business policy is then very different, and therefore the Government is also running many measures to ensure business development in Norway. It is about the broad framework conditions – such as the order of budgetary policy, the direction of budgetary policy, stable exchange rates and low interest rates. But of course, it's also about a lot of other things, and that's the other piece we accused the previous government of being too little concerned about. It's about such things as active ownership. We are too heavily owned by the Norwegian state in many Norwegian companies to ensure national anchoring of the companies, with head office, research, other strategic decisions – in Norway. We are committed to strengthening state instruments, such as: contribute to innovation, new start-ups, through what is known as Innovation Norway and SIVA. There we have invested more and will strengthen that type of instrument. It's about research, and it's obviously about infrastructure. Half a billion more to roads is also industrial policy. But one element of the great mosaic that is industrial policy is the conversion of places that are struggling with the decline of traditional industry. There we have shown in Mo in Rana, South Varanger, Porsgrund, Glomfjord, in many other places in Norway, in Horten for that matter and in Kongsberg, that we can convert from traditional activities to new, profitable jobs. But then we need state aid, state partnership with private companies to get to it. I feel confident that we will get to it also in those places that are now struggling with conversions, but then the state must be with and not a passive state, as the Progress Party wants.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e111	First of all, that's not right. I now understand that the Government’s definition of an ‘active enterprise policy’ is a means of conversion, as the Prime Minister calls it, but which is nothing but employment measures — rather than being concerned with securing other industrial workplaces around the country, which are struggling with strange framework conditions that make profitability worse, and increasing the attractiveness of other countries. It could be, for example, be of interest if the tools of the Government were to remove the strange wealth tax, eliminate specular environmental requirements, remove a number of other peculiar provisions which make Norwegian jobs themselves unprofitable. In other words, in a number of areas, it is possible for the Government to take a number of the grips mentioned very well in the Soria Moria Declaration, but which has now been defined by the Minister of Industry to focus only on some funds simply on gravitational support. I think it's amazing that the government doesn't do anything more active, but it again shows the big gap between what the government says it's going to do, and what the government is actually doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e116	I tried in my first answer to explain to the representative Jensen that industrial policy is about many different things, including: keeping the economy in order. With the policy of the Progress Party, we had drastically reduced the Norwegian industry because we had set the main framework conditions over control, such as the krone price and interest rates. But among all these many different things, it's also about what the representative Jensen calls burial aid. It is the kind of action, state-oriented measures for conversion, for innovation, that we can now stand in Mo in Rana and say that there are more jobs in the ironworks now than when we had the Jernverket, that we can go to South Varanger and say that there has been more work there now than before we shut down AS Sydvaranger and the mining business in Bjørnvatn, and that we can stand on Kongsberg or in Horten and say that here are the living, competent, profitable, good Norwegian enterprises. But they haven't come of themselves. They have come through state contributions, state aid. ScanWafer in Glomfjord, a very good company producing solar panel, came through state support. [[President clubs]] We need state instruments. The representative Jensen has spoken contemptuously about them.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e121	Time's up! The President will allow three follow-up questions – first Torbjørn Hansen.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e126	In the election campaign came the red-green parties with many plays and promises that they would save endangered jobs. The company was visited by company, trade union after trade union. The information was visited by Årdal, Høyanger, Union in Skien, Rjukan and Telenor. A new policy was promised and jobs were to be saved. They were not to be converted or given closure assistance. The workplaces were supposed to be saved. One example is Øystein Djupedal at the NRK People's Meeting at the Union Scene in the Drama in the election campaign. There he said, not very naughty: If it is the case that Norwegian Forest, built on Norwegian sweat, Norwegian capital, Norwegian wood and Norwegian power, is not life law, the state simply has to go to the management and say: we do not find this in. Norwegian Forest is going to continue production here. Otherwise we have to make sure that they sell to someone else or continue the production. History we know. The red-green promised one thing in the campaign. They're doing another thing in government. Today, the last machine at the Union paper factory stops. Does the Prime Minister understand that the employees, their families, the local community and the trade union are disappointed with this policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e135	I understand that a lot of people are worried when they experience change and closure. That's exactly what we're going to take seriously. This is precisely why the Government is committed to contributing to measures that can ensure that we secure new jobs. We've done very well in many places. I've been involved in the kind of conversions myself, and I'm very proud of the results we've got, for example. in Mo in Rana, South Varanger, on Kongsberg, in Horten and in several other places in Norway. We've got it in Porsground, among other things. by means of an enterprise called ScanWafer, which the State helped to establish. Now we're going to do it in Skien by contributing to new jobs together with Norwegian Forest and its employees. We do what we promised in the election campaign – pursue an active state enterprise policy. Over half have got a job. Now we're going to contribute to the fact that the 130 who still have no job after the closure of the Union will get a job within not too long.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e141	Ingredient S. Sørfonn – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e144	Last night I was at the movies. I saw the film about Jens Stoltenberg, and I don't regret it. In the film, the current Prime Minister came hovering over the Valley of Årdal, just enough on seaplanes, but he nevertheless stood out as the rescuer of the industrial community. A short time ago, the Minister of Industry was visiting the same Årdal, and then there was a downturn. Because while Stoltenberg was almost coming as a rescuer from above, the Minister of Industry's visit reminded me of a fireman coming too late for after-shave. A short time ago, in the spontaneous Question Time, the Minister of Industry was challenged by the concreteity and content of the so-called active industrial policy of the Government. But that clarification did not come, rather on the contrary. The Minister of Economic Affairs has named the establishment of public jobs in Årdal. I hope that the head of government will be able to clarify what kind of public jobs this is all about, given that the Labour Party in the election campaign stood out as a guarantee that not one state job would be moved out of Oslo.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e151	I am pleased that the representative has been to the cinema. That was definitely nice. It's coming for sale on DVD later! The point is we're saying exactly the same thing now that I said when I was in Årdal last time. I was actually criticized for not promising to maintain exactly the same jobs, but what I said, and what I stand by, is that the Workers' Party and this government are going to make sure that there are new jobs coming if you lose the old ones. Some call for state control of Hydro in Årdal. Well, it's the state that has ruled and ordered them to shut down the Søderberg ovens. So we've crashed. That's what has led to closure. But then we have to make sure that there are new jobs. We're doing great. We're close to securing 60 new jobs, maybe up to 100, and then over half of those who lose their jobs have got a new job. So we've gone into other ways of creating new jobs. And once again, I'm going to do everything I can to make sure that when I get to the Årdal, whether it's in one year, two years or three years, I can say, here too, we managed to change because we dared to bet on new things. And that's what this government is doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e164	Lars Sponheim – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e167	I think I'm going to give priority to 'Gymnaslärer Pedersen' in front of Prime Minister Stoltenberg in my spare time! The answer now given by Stoltenberg on industrial policy could certainly have been given by Minister of Industry Stoltenberg a few years ago, and it could have given all the Minister of Industry of the Bondevik I and II governments, namely that industrial policy is a mosaic with a foundation of innovation and new businesses, and above all economic policy, low interest rates – all that must be the basic element of economic and industrial policy. The problem is that Stoltenberg, his party and his partners in the government in the election campaign communicated something quite different. Stoltenberg is a smart enough politician to sanctify what he says, but it was communicated with another industrial policy, a more old-fashioned industrial policy, as an election researcher says today. His fellow politicians probably communicated this more directly. Doesn't Stoltenberg see that too many voters out there are the basis for feeling weakened in this situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e174	I can reassure the representative of Sponheim that Prime Minister Stoltenberg agrees with Minister of Industry Stoltenberg and Minister of Finance Stoltenberg, but more importantly, with opposition leader Stoltenberg, because I have never said in opposition that we should freeze today's industrial structure, but what I have said, and what I know, is that the state must be active in getting innovation and start-ups, and in particular we must have targeted measures in the areas where some industrial enterprises are struggling. That's why the Workers' Party took the initiative to set aside 100 million. kr for conversion in Høyanger and Årdal. We have succeeded in Hoeanger. The conversion package is in place. New jobs are in place, and there's actually a good atmosphere in Høyanger. We are now working to achieve an equal atmosphere in Årdal, because we have packages, actions, research, development, new grants and new jobs in place, so that we can make a successful transition in Årdal. We have good dialogue with employees and good dialogue with the municipality. That's what we're working for, and it's completely in line with what I've been saying both in position and in opposition over many years.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e181	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e184	I would like to say that I agree with the Prime Minister that very much is going well in Norway. There have never been so many people at work before. The increasing unemployment we saw during the Stoltenberg I government was reversed during the last government period, so that we now have declining unemployment. We have fewer social clients. We have fewer payment problems. Too many people are doing well. Much of the positive is because we have a competent business. We have companies that create jobs and values. That's why we're also able to get more well-being right now. But despite this, Stoltenberg went to the elections on a new industrial policy. The desire to become a prime minister was obviously so strong that uncritically they promised much, probably much more than you can keep. In the case of two of the 155 points, which was the only thing that was said about the community between the red-green parties before the election, promises were made in the election campaign. These points are about increasing the research department – at least to OECD level – and increasing support for industrial development through Innovation Norway, SIVA and regional development funds, and the Prime Minister has confirmed its importance. But when you presented your revision of the budget this year, the government cut $95 million. SEK in nutrient research, including: to Innovation Norway and SIVA, with a cut of DKK 25 billion to the Research Fund. That means that we actually heard what they said in the election campaign, but we also see that they do something completely different when they're given government power. One of the differences between the Workers' Party and the Right is that the Workers' Party discusses how they can refuse to cut businesses. In the Right, we discuss how we can tempt companies to bet. My question to the Prime Minister is about the confusion that we now see about the government's industrial policy, and about the government's relationship with the government in Norwegian companies, is due to deliberate attempts at double communication, or is it because not everyone has come to realize that the Workers' Party has turned 180 degrees into business policy since the election campaign?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e195	It's actually a little complicated to compare this government's industrial policy with that of the previous government, and it's because the industrial policy of the previous government was very unclear. For the first time, there were almost three to four years of argumentation against state active contributions to industrial development. The only goal was what was called business neutrality, and government instruments such as Innovation Norway were cut and cut. So suddenly, in August 2005, Børge took Burnde's summer job as a sort of social-democratic business minister and began talking nice about Innovation Norway and SIVA. Then we became a little uncertain about what kind of policy this government – that is, the previous – really stood for. So now we've increased our efforts within the state agency. We haven't cut, but we've done some redeployments, for example. We have done something in relation to seafarers, for whom the Right said they were in favour, but which they did not follow in practice, and we have also strengthened the regional development funds in the Ministry of Local Affairs' budget by 120 million. kr. So we're strengthening the state instruments, just to be able to deploy measures, whether in the Ski or in the Årdal, in order to be able to make the kind of successful changes that we, among other things, are. have seen in Glomfjord, in Porsgrund and very many other places in Norway. We are too active state instruments. We're going to use them, we're going to strengthen them, but when it comes to the Right, it's a little bit unclear what they really think about the government tool, because they've meant two things over the last few years. It is quite clear that the Government should manage companies according to the guidelines and the laws that apply, and it is also clear that we should therefore follow, for example. the share law. We're not going to go over the board's responsibilities, but what we're about to do, in one important area, is guidelines on option and leadership pay. There we have announced that we will make proposals. We're working on those proposals, and it's about getting more control over the completely unfair option schemes that exist in some Norwegian companies. It will be governance, but through laws and rules.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e206	Jens Stoltenberg is a good storyteller. Now he told a story that he might want to check against reality. The previous government never wrote anything about neutral industrial policy in any document to the Stortinget. The last government that has written about neutral industrial policy for Stortinget is the government of Stoltenberg I – the government of Jens Stoltenberg. It is thus Jens Stoltenberg who has previously been a defender of the neutral commercial policy as such. But I have recorded that most of what is now said about the active state has become an incredibly active talk from Jens Stoltenberg. The finance minister has just said that sitting in government is like sitting in the Big Brother house in full floodlights. And that's it, because now you're seen in the cards on the rhetoric you had. I have one specific question, because Stoltenberg just mentioned that he agreed with Minister of Industry Stoltenberg in business policy: Does he agree with Minister of Industry Eriksen in his own government when he says that what happens in Meråker – which is perhaps the most unilateral industrial site – is not a matter for him or for the Government? Is that actually government policy? There is now much greater change, and in that case there is an incredible passivity from the current government.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e215	We have a long tradition of involving instruments and state support measures in cooperation with companies and in cooperation with municipalities many, many places in Norway. In some places we succeed, and in some places we have not succeeded so well. But fortunately, the list of places where we succeed is very long. Some of the most proud chapters in our industrial history are those that show how we've done the big changes, which have actually been much more demanding than the ones we're facing, for example. in Årdal, or the ones we are now facing in Skien. We have to bet heavily on these places to succeed in this way and succeed elsewhere. In the case of Meråker, we have increased the appropriations for regional conversion measures by over 100 million. kr. This means that the possibilities and frameworks for helping municipalities like Meråker are larger. We haven't dealt with the matter, we're not done with the measures, we haven't evaluated it, so I can't say anything concrete about it right now. However, the possibilities, the tools, the toolbox for that type of action are significantly bigger now after the government change than before, because we just put new tools in the toolbox to help municipalities like this. Meråker.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e223	The President will allow two follow-up questions, including: to provide space for more main questions – first Per Sandberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e226	The government has now washed its bad conscience towards the Union by delivering 55 million. kr. I record that Meråker is not in the same situation, and it is probably because this government did not drive election campaigns and promised to leave in Meråker. But this government did a lot of things in the election campaign. Among other things, Øystein Djupedal traveled from the farm to the farm over the quite country and promised quite blatantly that the depreciation rates would be improved. The government also had the opportunity to do this, because this was in the original budget from Bondevik. But the first government of Stoltenberg does, is to go away from this. It is a budgetary process that a new industrial policy can be put in place. Here, the government of Stoltenberg had opportunities both in terms of depreciation rates, research and infrastructure, but lost its commitment when it came to investing in existing businesses and safe Norwegian jobs. So now they're in a situation where they have to repair with fresh, new means to create conversion, as they call it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e235	I record that the Progress Party is talking with a little contempt about the state instruments that the Government is now putting in, for example. in Ardal or Skien, using words such as washing their bad conscience, etc. Well, it's not about that. It's not about washing anything. What it's all about is helping people who now feel insecure about the job get a job. And then I show that we have succeeded in many other places with similar instruments, and that is why we are going into these tools both in Årdal and Skien and elsewhere in Norway. We're going to succeed in these places, and we're going to be able to stand there in one and two years and see that here we got new jobs. It is true that we did not follow the proposal on depreciation rules, and that is because we thought other things were more important, for example. €0.5 billion extra for transportation, so it's going to be more than what the Progress Party made in its budget settlements, more money for seafarers to follow up what the Advance Party did not get in its budget settlements, and more money for, among other things. regional development. So we've been focusing, we've been, on actions that are now producing results. The way I feel about my conscience is really secondary. The crucial thing is that unemployed people get jobs and new businesses are created by means of government policies.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e247	Dagfinn Højbråten – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e250	It is not entirely secondary if the country has a prime minister who can have a good conscience in relation to what he said and gave the impression of in the election campaign, and what he is actually doing in position. At least it seems to me that for my part is quite crucial. Now I understand that Prime Minister Stoltenberg assures us that he agrees with the opposition leader Stoltenberg, and that he does not take note of the opposition's criticism in relation to the fact that he gave an impression in the election campaign that is not being implemented at this time. But it's different than the opposition that means this. Arne Strand wrote in the newspaper on Sunday: ‘The Årdal case is about the struggle of a rural community to survive and about the Aps Industrial Policy soul. The matter is also about the credibility of the red-green government. I have never felt that a government has run from the election promises as this government is about to do. The closest must be President Bush the elder who went to the election on the slogan ‘Read my lips; no more taxis’. He increased his taxes – and lost his next choice.’ Does the Prime Minister feel that he has a problem with opinion and with central commentators, who are actually sympathetic to this government?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e264	First, I want to make a big and important confession: my conscience is important to me at least, and I have a good conscience. So in addition to the government's leading a good policy, my conscience is good. It's actually related, in the sense that we're doing what we said in the election campaign. Secondly, I read what, for example: Arne Strand writes. I disagree with him. I believe that what we are doing now is to continue a very nice and fine tradition in the Workers' Party, namely the ability to convert, the ability to create new ones and the ability to build a partnership between markets and authorities, between countries and businesses. And we have done that, with amazing results very many places in Norway – in Kongsberg, Mo in Rana, South Varanger, there are many of them. I want to say it this way: I fully agree with Gro Harlem Brundtland, who had good state secretaries for long periods of time. I continue that policy and I am proud of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e273	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e276	We've gradually, including here today, got a lot of examples that we have a government that says one thing and does something else. In a TV debate that Jens Stoltenberg and I took part in before the election, he said that there should not be a crown in tax vouchers until the care of the elderly appeared. You're going to have 10,000 new hands in the care of the elderly, but then the government, in its first budget, cuts into the education of nurses just because they're being trained at private colleges. In the evening post of 19 June 2005, the head of the Labour Party said that a red-green government will not withdraw authorisations granted for the establishment of health schools. Now it is announced that the Government will present an emergency law to stop already approved health schools, including those approved on a religious and pedagogical basis. A whole of 40 schools are now told that the state has changed its mind. Stoltenberg says one thing, do another. In the Questionnaire on 9 November last year, the Prime Minister replied to a question from me about fresh schools: ‘This government has inter alia: made it clear that a continued desire to open up, facilitate, provide schools with an alternative educational or religious basis.» Under the Urgent Act, no new religious or pedagogical alternative schools will be approved until early 2008. The government says one thing, does another. In my opinion, the law presented will make a proper exception for approved cross-border schools. But from what the Prime Minister has said in the past, it is both incomprehensible and unreasonable that the Government does not grant the same exemption for schools that are alternatives to the public, whether religious or pedagogical. It was precisely the schools the Prime Minister has previously gone in to screen, both before, during and after the election campaign and in the Soria Moria Declaration. The question is: will the Government, when the temporary law is presented, extend the exemption so that alternative schools of a religious or pedagogical nature will also be able to continue to be approved, so that at least at this point we can see a government that allows action to follow words?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e294	The government does what it said it would do in the election campaign, both in the case of health care schools and in the case of care for the elderly. We have provided additional 5.7 billion kroner for the municipalities. This means a substantial strengthening of the elderly in all the municipalities of the country compared to what would have been the case with the draft budget that came from the Bondevik government. So it's a dramatic strengthening of care for the elderly. We have got several hands into the care of the elderly, several employees and an increased bet, because we chose communities rather than tax havens. That was a very clear message in the election campaign, and we stand by it. We haven't given tax reliefs. On the contrary, we have increased taxes both in relation to the Bondevik government’s proposals and in relation to the level in 2005, because we believe it is more important to care for the elderly than lower taxes for those who already have a lot of money. In the case of fresh oils, we say what we said in the Soria Moria Declaration, that is to say, that there should be a permit for fresh oils based on alternative pedagogics and alternative lifestyles. But to clarify those limits, to clarify those rules, we've thought that we'd need a year of freeze to get a new law in place. That is why we have a temporary law. The reason is that we are afraid of dramatic privatisation, a commercialisation of schools in Norway. The previous government approved more than 5,000 school places after losing the election, adding to an extensive privatisation that we have seen, among other things. in Sweden, leading to increased social disparities. We're going to avoid that. That's why we stopped it and came up with a new law. That law will include provisions for schools with alternative pedagogic and alternative approaches to life.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e301	The Prime Minister is talking past the question. The question concerned those schools that have an alternative educational or religious basis that the Prime Minister has personally said the Government will ensure. What the Prime Minister and the Government are now preparing is a law that will invalidate this right for a few years. It's like saying we're for human rights, but the next few years we won't follow them. This actually applies to some fundamental human rights in a democracy. This applies to the parental right, to the right to choose a school that is an alternative to the public. My question, which I repeat to the Prime Minister, is: will the temporary law extend the derogation for primary schools, which are well and good, to those schools that are really alternatives to the public offer, as the Prime Minister has said here in the Grand Chamber and in the election campaign?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e308	What is the situation, is that those schools that have been approved and started are allowed to continue, whether they have alternative life views, alternative pedagogics or what I would call more pure commercial private schools. All of them keep going. This means, among other things: that the uncertainty that students who have started at schools could feel because they were afraid of doing something about the schools has been removed, because schools are allowed to continue. Then we say that in relation to the large number of private schools, where the large majority do not have an alternative pedagogy or an alternative way of life, but which are purely competing private schools in high school, we now put a freezer because we are going to have a new law that just opens up to the Christian People's Party and the Workers' Party has agreed on traditional, namely that we are opposed to the privatisation of the schoolwork, but in order to have a diversity by allowing schools with alternative life views and alternative pedagogy. We will promote that law in 2007, and then we will be able to re-grant permits to that type of school.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e316	The President will allow three follow-up questions – first, Harald T. Nesvik.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e319	One of the key prerequisites for getting elderly care to shine – as the Prime Minister himself has expressed it – is that we have professionals in place, enough people trained to take the jobs needed in the care sector. Then it does not stand as a believer when this government, among other things, to reduce the appropriations allocated to private higher education institutions, which also provide training for nurses. Then it becomes a little strange when you say that the goal is 10,000 new annual works. In fact, we are not talking about jobs, we are talking about 10,000 new annual works. My question to the Prime Minister is as follows: How are you going to manage this number of years' work when you hit private colleges that train nurses at the same time? Then, of course, the number of newly educated people will fall! Is this as credible as when the Soria Moria Declaration states that you have to reduce the excess and keep them at a low level, while at the same time introducing a new fraction of physical therapy of $50, as this government has done?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e326	Firstly, with regard to the excesses, we reduced them in relation to the Bondevik government's proposal. We reduced the ceiling from NOK 3500 to NOK 2500 for what's called roof II. So it's actually so that we reduced the probabilities and improved the draft budget at that point in relation to the Bondevik government's proposal. We didn't get everything fixed up, but we fixed up a lot. Similarly, in the case of care for the elderly, this is the case. The most important thing we do there is to make sure that those who have to pay for the care of the elderly, namely the municipalities, get significantly more money. We also need to look at the possibility of strengthening educational capacity. There are some minor changes in the budget from 2005 to 2006, but the main and major change is what is now taking place in the municipalities, which enable them to employ more people, providing more annual work in the municipalities. And with the arrangement of the previous government, with the right arrangement, there had been many, many fewer employees in the care of the elderly and a poorer offer to the elderly.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e333	Ine Marie Eriksen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e336	The Prime Minister did not answer the main question from Dagfinn Høybrätten, but he answered when the newspaper asked on 8 April 2005. The paper writes: ‘But the schools already authorised to operate and those likely to be authorised before the election and any government change, the Ap Manager must be satisfied with living with.’ To that he answered: ‘It is more complicated, because the law limits provisions with retroactive effect.’ The Prime Minister repeated this when the Evening Post asked on 19 June 2005: ‘Ap. Manager says that a red-green government will not withdraw authorisation granted.’ Jens Stoltenberg said one thing before the election and makes it stingingly opposite as soon as he comes into government. Does the Prime Minister understand that the schools, the students, the teachers and the firemen behind the 40 schools that have now been stopped from taking off feel cheated? What is happening now, in the light of what the Prime Minister himself said to the Daily Newspaper on 8 April 2005 and to the Evening Post on 19 June 2005?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e356	I think it was very well-chosen words to say that 'it's more complicated,' because it is. That is why, in consultation with all of our legal competences, we have come to the following solution: Those who had received permission and had started, where students and teachers had based themselves on the fact that this was an offer that was in progress, are allowed to continue. For the others, we have not said no, but we have said that there is a freeze until we have got the permanent law in place. This means, for example: for those schools with alternative pedagogic and alternative life prospects, that there will be a postponement of start-up. Those who had received a permit and had started up are allowed to continue working. Those who had received a permit and had not started it will be able to get a permit when the new law is in place. I think it is entirely in line with what was said in the election campaign, namely that we should avoid privatisation, but we should say yes to schools with alternative pedagogy and alternative life views. And that's exactly what we've been practicing in a wise, sensible, and legally sound way.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e361	The government and the Prime Minister will be predictable on their own policies. It will hit commercial schools. The consultation round on the freezing proposal has now shown that the proposal can affect more than those described in the consultation procedure, including: schools may lose forms of State aid for education while the reform of the Law of Education and the Law of Vocational Education is under way. This applies to art schools and culture-oriented schools, which, in accordance with previous assumptions given by the Stortinget, must apply for recognition as either a post-secondary school or a post-secondary school. Examples of such schools are Norwegian School of Photography, Ålesund School of Art, Mølla School of Art, School of Arts and Design, Einar Granum School of Art. These are schools that do not represent competition for the public school system. They meet a real need, and many use them for post-graduate education and as preparatory courses for further post-graduate studies in the arts. They are actually in a tradition from Martin Tranmæl to Ernst G. Mortensen. Can the Prime Minister guarantee that these art and cultural schools are not now affected by the government's law of free school, for it was hardly the government's intention to do so? And can I get a clear answer as to whether that guarantee can be issued to these non-commercial actors?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e366	Firstly, those who have been authorised and started up are allowed to continue with state aid. Secondly, we have not said that the others are getting no, but we have said that we need a one-year postponement until we are presented with the bill in the spring of 2007. Then we can decide and clean up what was the problem, namely that it would have mixed up what I would call schools based on alternative pedagogics and alternative lifestyles, possibly arts schools and others, with schools that contribute to the privatisation and commercialisation of the Norwegian schoolwork. I think it's important to use one year just to create a new, thorough law that ensures what we're busy with, to avoid privatisation, but yes to diversity. Then we have a rule of exception in the law that can be used in very special cases, and that should apply in particular to cross-border schools. The exemption provision is precisely to be used to avoid unreasonable results in the year until we get a new law in place. So you're now trying to create a bigger problem out of something that, after all, isn't such a big problem. In other words, the schools that have been approved are allowed to continue. New schools will be allowed, but we need a year's freeze, and we're going to deal with this in a flexible way.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e373	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e376	In the election campaign we were still told from Jens Stoltenberg that only a new majority in Norwegian policy was involved, so we would have predictability and a clear position from a government with a clear majority behind us. After 133 days of government, there are two things that are obvious about today's majority rule. First, there is a majority of cases in which the government parties and the government promised one thing and they do something else. It shows this questionnaire so far, and it's just reading today's newspapers. It is about environmental policy, it is about industrial policy, and it is about education and research policy – to take three areas that are important for the Left. But it is also obvious that there is a majority of cases where the government parties disagree with each other. It's just to take a quick look at today's and yesterday's newspapers: the government parties disagree internally on the governance of companies where the state is a major owner, the establishment of a door factory in Årdal, the age of voting rights in elections, the protection of Trillemarka, management wages, green certificates and sludge dumping in Oslofjord. And at the top of it all, SV's leader, the Minister of Finance, asks the Environment movement to put pressure on its own government to get petroleum-free zones – in violation of what the Prime Minister's party believes. We all remember the famous press release at Huk this fall, where the party leaders from the three government parties stood up and claimed that it was to be traded here – not negotiated. For many of us, it's obvious that that's the opposite that happens. One could use the following quote: if what I have said seems crystal clear to you, you must have misunderstood. This quote, from former U.S. governor Alan Greenspan, might as well come from the prime minister in the light of self-recognition of the inability of the majority government to turn words into action. Did the voters misunderstand Stoltenberg's crystal clear message of a new majority?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e385	The answer to that question is no. We went to the elections on some important values and some important issues. One was that we wanted a policy in which we agreed in common, no to tax havens. That's what we've been following up by now spending a lot more of our total resources upgrading school, on more teachers, on better education, on lower taxes to those who have a lot more from before, and by spending a lot more on the hands of the elderly, and on the security and warmth of the community systems there, instead of distributing money to people who don't need it. That's the big, important choice in this election. Here we have followed up and done what we said, whether it concerns care for the elderly, school or other community solutions such as: more and cheaper kindergartens. It's a big and important choice. I think the voters have brought with them that change of course, in relation to what the previous government stood for. The second main message was that we should pursue a policy of social justice. That is why, first of all, we have made sure that those who have much pay more into the community through capital and share taxation. The other thing we've done is that those who have little have got more through, among other things. to reverse the total unsocial cuts in unemployment, which the previous government carried out, to increase the supplement to children in several social security schemes, and to strengthen other schemes for those with a low prevalence. And the third was that we were going to conduct a policy to get work for everyone. For this reason, we have provided for a more active industrial policy, both with State instruments in relation to individual industries, such as industry. maritime industries/seafarers, and in relation to e.g. investment in transport. So this government is doing what it said in the election campaign. We are in the process of implementing a policy for more community, increased social justice and more commitment to work for all. And I'm actually very proud of that. Then, of course, in a government where there are three parties, in fact even when there is a government with one party, there is a debate about matters – discussion about things. We should let that debate go, we should have a discussion. Then the government has to conclude, and then the conclusions are very clear.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e397	It is obvious that an overall opposition sees something that the Prime Minister does not see. There's a lot of evidence that in his own ranks there are people who see something he doesn't see. One can only read and follow the media: newspapers in the last few days are dominated by criticism by a government that said one thing, do something else — a government that had a rhetoric that is different from what seems to be politics. It has become a point in this spontaneous question hour so far that the Prime Minister himself says that he meant the same thing as the opposition leader as what he thinks is prime minister. Perhaps the most pervasive concept has been: we have succeeded after 133 days – without saying that there has been another government before that is probably more part of this great ‘we’. It is, I think, perhaps at the time that opposition leader Stoltenberg does not act as prime minister in this Chamber, and perhaps acts a little less in such a situation – right?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e406	When I use the term ‘we have succeeded’, it is with reference to the major changes we have succeeded. And then I include everyone who's been involved in those conversions. There are different governments and different governments. But at least it is that the Workers’ Party – and to some extent I myself – has been an active participant in several of those transitions. What I'm trying to say is that there was a lot of frustration, a lot of uncertainty and a lot of uncertainty in South Varanger, in Kirkenes, in Glomfjord, in Mo in Rana and in Kongsberg when we put down traditional businesses there. But today we can show that there are more jobs, more industrial activities and new, profitable jobs in the same areas where we run businesses 10, 20, 30 years ago – or not many years ago. That's when I said we succeeded in the conversions. To the extent that Sponheim has been involved, and he certainly has, he will have much honor for it...
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e411	I thank you for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e416	...and we like to share it with many. My point is not in and of course that someone should have honor. The point is that we've got that kind of conversion, and we're going to get it both in Årdal, in Skien and elsewhere.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e421	The President will allow three follow-up questions – first Siv Jensen.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e424	So far, this questioning has been a little unworthy. We've seen a prime minister who appears with a lot of cheap rhetoric and lots of words instead of presenting solutions and action. I record that the Prime Minister in a previous reply said that this government has gone to values. I believe that a lot of the voters perceive it so that the government has gone to the elections on promises, and that you now perceive it as a huge gap between many of the promises that you thought the government would fulfill, and that government has not done so. It creates discontent, and it appears in a gruesome light. At the SV national board meeting last, the SV leader went so far as to ask the opposition to take responsibility for environmental policy because the SV in government is unable to do it on its own. Yesterday, there was a common demand from the NHO and the LO that the Government should begin to show its power of action rather than its inaction in the gas power policy. The list is endless. The government is passive. Then it helps very little just to convert this into a government that has gone to values.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e433	Government and government parties went to elections on both values, promises and concrete issues. For us, they're related. We have some values. We develop concrete issues based on those values, and then we go to the voters and say, "These are our promises before this election." For me, there are three sides to the same thing. We went, for example. to the choice of cheap kindergartens. Kindergarten prices are down. We went to the choice of several employees in the care of the elderly. We're increasing the number of people employed in the care of the elderly. We went to the elections on increased appropriations for the schools. We're increasing the appropriations for the schools. And we went to the election to build gas power plants. I am pleased to be the Prime Minister of Norway who cuts the cord to the first large Norwegian gas power plant, and I intend to do so around 2007. Not only do we have a gas power plant standing there, but we also have a very large sewage plant next to it that cleans the greenhouse gas CO2. Both are important. We need power to keep power prices down and supply power to Norwegian households and Norwegian companies. So we need to do something about the large emissions of the greenhouse gas CO2 that help destroy the climate on Earth. The progress party isn't busy lately, and I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e446	Petter Løvik – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e449	I'll start where the previous question ends – with energy questions. Large parts of Norway, and especially the North West and Trondelag, will face a major energy crisis in a few years' time. And in this area, some of the Labour Party's politicians went very high on the track before the election and said that it was a red-green plural, and one would at least show some action and get something done about the problems we're facing. Now we have a lot of oil and energy ministers both with question-time questions, with interviews and in other ways. He owes much to the fact that earlier governments should have done something about this. But that's now we have the ability to go into green certificate schemes. Applications to build gas power plants are now under way. The tabernacle deity. How will the Prime Minister contribute politically and economically to the realisation of gas power plants, which I believe are the only solution, if additional costs are added in the form of additional Norwegian taxes on them?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e458	There are many measures that need to be taken to address the power shortage in parts of Norway, and in particular in Central Norway. It is about energy saving measures to mitigate the growth of consumption, and it is also, of course, about measures to bring about new power. E.g.: That is why we are focusing on alternative energy, wind turbines and bioenergy, but also on gas power. In fact, we are the ones that start the construction of the gas power plant at Kårstø, and it was the Stoltenberg I government that granted permission and concession for the construction of gas power plants in central Norway, in Forest. It is a very large gas power plant, a power/heating plant that has been granted a concession. And what we're really waiting for then is that those who got the concession are going to make the investment decision that they thought was imminent when we gave them the concession. So we look at all possibilities, from gas power plants to wind turbines, to energy saving, to bioenergy. And we're going to promote measures that seem much more stimulating on it than the agreement we could reach with Sweden through green certificates.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e463	In this question hour, there has been a great deal of clear assertions that there is no match between words and actions, and that the Prime Minister rhetorically responds well to something else. I want to take some concrete examples, and give the Prime Minister another opportunity, because I think it is important that people feel that one is honest in the political answers as well. When it comes to private schools, did they have reason to believe, with alternative pedagogics and those with a way of life, that one would get a two-year postponement from what was said in the election campaign? The fact that one of the paramedics in some private colleges - was there any reason to believe that from what was said in the election campaign? Is it so that when very many analysts in many newspapers say there is a difference between what the Prime Minister said in the election campaign, and what they had reason to believe in the industrial cities, is it a problem that he has expressed himself so that there is understanding out there among people? I thought maybe here's a reason to be a little bit more humble. And now I'm really excited if it comes out in the answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e473	Now I'm going to be humble – and then I'm going to say that there are certain things I could formulate more precisely, more clearly, taken clear reservations about etc. through a long political life, including during the election campaign. But when, for example, As far as Skien or Årdal is concerned, I know that I was in debates where I had to explain that I did not guarantee jobs, for example. In Skien. I was in a long debate in NRK Sogn and Fjordane, I remember, where I was just criticized for not wanting to instruct. Because I just said there that the state has used ownership, that is. it has not used the power of ownership, but it has used the authority to oblige Hydro to close these ovens. And it's kind of weird if the state through the Ministry of Environment one day says they're going to close these ovens, and the other day they're going to turn around and say they're going to open these ovens. That's what I said in a debate in the NRK, and that's why I have a good conscience when I say that we've never talked about instructing. But what we've been talking about is we're going to convert, so we're going to get new jobs in Årdal. Yes – in general, there are certain things I could have done better, but I have also taken important reservations in the debates during the election campaign.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e480	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e483	The electricity price has risen steadily in recent years and is now almost twice as high as it was last year at the same time. In some parts of the country, the Minister of Energy also fears that there will be a power crisis in a few years. Yes, we are talking about the power crisis in the energy nation of Norway. The situation was actually discussed in the Wall Street Journal on Monday. This suggests that it is important to put in place measures to increase power generation in Norway, and the Green Certificate Scheme was something that everyone agreed on. Throughout the previous period, the red-green coalition called for green certificates. The Progress Party has called for it, and the environmental protection movement, the power industry, the energy companies and business organisations have called for it. There would be a very important contribution to boosting renewable energy production in Norway. After the election, however, the red-green government was very taus. The opposition ventured to knock on the door, but the only thing it found was fog. On Monday we could quite rightly see the energy minister's fog light. At a safe distance he parked, and without any particular reason he told me that the system is not going to work. So a majority government has made it clear that it's a piece of art to scrape a system that everyone wanted. Important energy projects all over the country are now being scrapped. Today's newspaper reads that billions of investments are being put on ice. Many projects for small-scale power plants across the country have been ready, which are now being put in the drawer. This would be an important contribution to avoiding this energy crisis against which the Minister of Energy warns. And then it's alarming that the government doesn't do anything. Today's Newspaper reads that 360 workplaces are at risk of losing to South Cell Tofte. These are the direct consequences of the Government's decision, says management. We are experiencing a deterioration in the competitive situation with regard to Sweden and lack of predictability. Does the Prime Minister have any new tools to reassure management and employees at South Cell Tofte and the many hundreds, if not thousands, of projects around the country that are now at risk of not being realised because green certificates are not being introduced?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e494	The government is for green certificates. The government has sought to reach an agreement with Sweden on the use of green certificates, but the government is not for green certificates at any price, if it is both unfairly in excess of the investment in renewable energy in Norway and goes against Norwegian consumers in the form of unreasonably high power charges. What I'm sure is that we're going to put forward proposals on, among other things. direct State grants to wind turbines, to bioenergy and to small power plants. It is going to bring significantly greater benefits to the environment than the green certificate proposal that we could have agreed with Sweden on. This is because the advantage of green certificates is that it is a market-based scheme. The disadvantage is that when we do the same in Sweden and Norway, if you think that we are, for example, had a similar obligation to both, Norwegian consumers would have paid about twice as much as Swedish consumers. We would have financed a lot of new investment in Sweden and little new investment in Norway, because the agreement was too unbalanced. The point is that we want to spend more money on renewable energy in Norway. Less of that money will go to finance investment projects in Sweden. Then we can get more environment for less increase in the electricity price. It is strange that the Progress Party is in favour of a significant increase in the electricity price, with no demonstrable environmental impact in Norway. They want us to sign an agreement with Sweden that is clearly unbalanced. We are concerned about both the environment and the fact that the electricity price does not get too high. Therefore, we reject the proposal from the Progress Party to increase the electricity price in Norway to finance investments in Sweden. This is bad environmental policy. That's a bad business policy. This is bad consumer policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e503	I thank you for the answer, but there was no answer. It was a reminder of course, and then there were some assertions that were completely unfounded. If the Government wants a lower electricity price, they may support the proposals of the Progress Party to reduce the electricity charge now when the electricity price is high. All parties on the Storting want green certificates, because it would provide more renewable energy for a cheapest money. This was even agreed. But now the government wants the Stortinget to grant subsidies instead of the state budget. SV also agreed that it was a bad environmental policy and a bad energy policy. Instead of filling the toolbox with new, good tools, you fill it with the old, rusty tools that everyone wanted to pull away. I have also noticed that Minister of Energy, Enoxsen, has claimed that this would be a bad deal. It is possible that the government is poor at negotiating with the Swedes, but the Swedes feared an agreement with Norway – precisely because they feared that the investments would be made in Norway, in Norwegian small power plants. But we know the internal disagreement in the government about whether small-scale power plants are good or bad. In the Financial Newspaper today, there are good reasons that show that what the Prime Minister is now claiming cannot vote. That is why I ask the Prime Minister: can we at least expect evidence of what the Prime Minister now claims that a green certificate market will deliver higher electricity prices in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e516	First, we want green certificates, but not bad green certificates. We did not reach a good agreement with Sweden. That is why we said no to the agreement. This is why we are going to spend the money on targeted actions in Norway. Secondly, the point of green certificates is to increase the electricity price. If the representative has not understood that, we have to think about it. The point here is that green certificates are an impact on the electricity price. That's why we're issuing. First we have to pay 25 cents for the power, and then we have to pay, for example. 15 cents for green certificates. It's going to be 40 cents. The point is that then there is a turn-on, and that's the turn-on goes to the manufacturers of wind turbines, of bioenergy, etc. It's fine, but it's fine if it goes to the producers of windmills and of bioenergy in Norway, not Sweden. The relationship between the Swedish commitment and the Norwegian commitment must then be reasonable. The Swedish proposal was unreasonable in our opinion. Norwegian consumers would have paid twice as much as Swedish consumers if we had had a similar obligation, because there are about twice as many households in Sweden as in Norway. That's the scheme we rejected. This would have led to an unreasonable increase in Norwegian electricity prices and a low environmental benefit. We're going to get greater environmental benefits with lower power prices than the Progress Party's proposal would have given. That's what the Workers' Party and the other two government parties go in for.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e525	There will be two follow-up questions – first Trond Helleland.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e528	The case of green certificates is probably an example of turning operations and lifting failure. At Södra Cell Tofte, located in Hurum, Norway, 360 jobs are at risk. February 21st, a week ago, Minister of Oil and Energy, Odd Roger Enoxsen Lier visited. Following information on the wish of the company Södra Cell for equal treatment with companies in Sweden, the Council of State expressed its opinion on the Official Journal of Drammen on 22 February: ‘New but known substance. The arguments for electric certificates were reinforced.’ The opposition will not listen to the Prime Minister, but what about his own? The head of Hurum Arbeiderparti says in the Official Journal of today: ‘the whole grassroots of the Working Party here in Hurum is in shock.’ ‘We fought for the sitting government and felt this as a clear lifting breach.’ [[...]] President of Storting, Jagland, said to the Evening Post: ‘This could, in the worst case, lead to worse framework conditions for parts of Norwegian industry. In view of the election commitments, it is said in particular." That's special. When will the Stortinge get evidence of why the Government has so strongly broken its promise of green electricity certificates?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e552	In the Soria Moria statement, we were in favour of green certificates. The government has entered green certificates. But we also clearly said in the Soria Moria statement that if we don't get this implemented on the assumption, we will come up with other instruments. The Government will. We don't want to go into any agreement with Sweden. The agreement we could have reached with Sweden would have been bad for Norwegian consumers and for the environment. It would have given us less environmental benefit than our alternative, which we're going to provide if not for very long. It's about giving direct support. In the case of Southern Cell, green certificates are issued for new renewable energy. The consultation proposal issued by the previous government set the cut date at 1 January 2004. The plant for South Cell is built before that. South Cell wouldn't have got a penny, not an ear, with the Bondevik government proposal on green certificates. It's a little funny to hear that green certificates will be crucial for South Cell, when the proposal of the Bondevik government wouldn't have given them anything. What we can offer them is direct state support for biofuels. They got it with the previous regime, and they're going to get it with our regime. Green certificates wouldn't have given South Cell anything.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e561	Gunnar Kvassheim – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e564	The Prime Minister said he was looking forward to opening gas power plants on Kårstø, with sewage treatment plants, in 2007. I can inform the Prime Minister that the earliest sewage treatment plant can be ready, is in 2009, probably in the autumn. Then we most likely have another prime minister. So a question – although I have no illusion that I will be the first today to get a clear answer. But I'm still trying. The agreement on green certificates expired – allegedly due to costs. I think it was due to internal disagreement in the Government and too low a level of ambition. Various newspapers have tried to obtain access to the documentation behind this, in the calculations showing that this is becoming too expensive. A unanimous Storting has said that they want green certificates. Can the Prime Minister confirm that the Storting will gain insight into this calculation and into the level of ambition that the Government entered into negotiations with the Swedes, which thus led to the collapse of this unique opportunity to create an offensive unification of energy?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e574	I repeat, we're for green certificates. We have negotiated green certificates, but the offer we received from Sweden was, in our opinion, far too poor, both for the environment – there will be less wind, less environmentally friendly energy in Norway with the scheme than without – and for Norwegian consumers, because we regard it as roughly equal to the payment obligation. It's about twice as many Swedes as the North. This means about twice as high a price premium for Norwegian households as for Swedish households. I could write that down, but it's a relatively simple calculation. We're going to provide documentation. What we can't do is go into all the details of negotiations with another country. However, I can at least prove that an arrangement that had involved something close to a similar payment obligation had been an unreasonable arrangement both for Norway, for the environment and for Norwegian households. We're going to put forward other proposals, which are going to give more environmentally friendly energy than the proposal it seems that the representative is in favour of Kvassheim. The problem is that in the consultation proposals from the Bondevik government, there wasn't a single number, so we don't know exactly what the Bondevik government was for. They wouldn't be able to figure this out, because then you would easily have seen the problems associated with these green certificates.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e586	Let's go to the last main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e589	When the Prime Minister seems a little pressured today, I think he must remember that the Storting had a spontaneous question hour two weeks ago with the Minister of Industry, where the Stortinge spent an hour trying to get answers to the following simple questions: What are the new instruments of business policy? Where are the new tools? We did not get an answer. The Prime Minister’s review today has also not given any new answers. I agree with Sponheim, who said earlier today that the Prime Minister's first post on industrial policy could have been held by anyone in any government. I could have kept it as Minister of Finance for the Right, and I think anyone else in that government could also have kept the same post. Then there is no new means to go. So to this with clarity, as was also promised in the election campaign. The Prime Minister must have excused me, but the reason why we ask him is that we get very different answers when we ask the Government. When, for example: In the case of Meråker, the Prime Minister says that they will of course be involved in being assessed for support as a unilateral industrial site, while the Minister of Industry stated on 12 January, i.e. this year – in other words, after the election campaign – that ‘what is now happening in Meråker is not a job for me or for others in the government’. Then it's not so strange that we think this cracks a little bit. Or look at today's newspapers – for the government parties also announced in the election campaign a new ownership policy – where the Minister of Industry said that no new special political restrictions should be created on the management salaries of state enterprises, while the Minister of Finance said a few days ago that new management wage regulations should be introduced. It was a long interview, where she also expressed herself as if there were no rules for executive pay in the state. Well, there are rules like that. They were created by the Stoltenberg I government, and they were passed on by the Bondevik II government, so they existed. But the Minister of Finance said that this is a new invention. Can the Prime Minister now clean up, at least in relation to two of his government councils, and only answer this limited question, i.e. about the governance of state enterprises and the management salaries of state enterprises.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e598	Firstly, there is a new industrial policy that is now being pursued, both because there is a much more active industrial policy and because we are doing what we said in the election campaign, namely that we should strengthen the state instruments. Total State intervention has increased. While there are some re-priorities, the overall framework has been increased, both in the Ministry of Industry’s budget and in the Ministry’s budget for regional economic development and for regional conversion. The increase is 120 million. DKK only in the budget of the Ministry of Local Affairs and 70 million. kr on the Ministry of Industry’s budget, which includes, inter alia: gives us the opportunity to reintroduce the arrangements for seafarers for whom the Right was in opposition, but against in position. It's true that there are some cuts. But the additions are much larger than the cuts, so that the combined efforts in the fields of both the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the Ministry of Local Affairs are on the increase and a more active industrial policy. We have also shown active ownership, both in terms of the responsibility we take in relation to BaneTele to ensure that they get an industrial partner, in relation to Nammo, where the state has bought up, and in relation to, for example, the dividend policy of individual state companies. We have invested half a billion extra in roads and transport, among other things. because we believe it is also an important policy action on nutrition. Then we have entered much more actively into the areas that are exposed, such as Årdal and Skien, with packages and measures. It's actually a little unclear to me what the Right believes about it, because one day the Right says that they're as much for the Årdal package as the Workers' Party was in 2003, and the other day they're making the closest fool of us having a package to Årdal. In terms of pay policy: yes, we have guidelines. Yes, we are ready to go through them again and see if we can do anything with them. And more than that, we also consider in the Government – in line with what we said in the opposition – guidelines for determining management salaries also in private companies. We will look at how the law on public limited-liability companies can be tightened up to give the general meeting more direct decision-making power over management salaries, or – perhaps more important than management salaries – over options and share-based remuneration systems, which are completely unfair in many companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e610	I understand that you also have to enter private companies, because one of the companies mentioned – Hydro – is a private company. The state's interests are in a minority, so of course you have to do that. Then, on another occasion, the Prime Minister will explain how he believes this will stimulate business start-ups in Norway. It is not right, as the Prime Minister now says, that the overall framework for industrial policy has increased. It's reduced. Research aid was reduced by approx. One hundred million. SEK – 95 million. kr to be exact – and the increase in depreciation rates of the previous government was changed, with a value for enterprises of DKK 1.7 billion. It's a much higher amount than the Prime Minister now operated on. There is no new industrial policy, because no new tools have been presented. The Prime Minister has soon spent an hour on a nostalgic, historical review of all one-sided industrial sites, how they have been saved and actually developed over the years, and where good results have been obtained. I agree. The right has been involved in all of this. I spent eight to ten years in the Industrial Committee at Stortinget before the Prime Minister arrived at Stortinget, and I agreed to support this. The cartoon the Prime Minister gives of the Right, hears no place at home, to say so.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e619	My point was that it was a little unclear what was the industrial policy of the previous government, because you had a rhetoric and a policy where you built down the government tools for a long time. So in August 2005, the Minister of Industry decided to change rhetoric and to be a follower of instruments, such as State instruments Innovation Norway and SIVA, which had been cut for many years. But the crucial thing, after all, is not what the Right has had to think about different things over different times. It is essential that we now pursue a policy that targets both the major industrial policy – on framework conditions, on transport, on research, on innovation, on start-ups – and the more targeted industrial policy, which targets those communities with transition problems. I can also share the honor with the Right, I, for the conversion in South Varanger, in Mo in Rana, in Glomfjord and elsewhere. I don't think it's crucial for all those who live in these places, exactly which politicians have the most honor. It is essential that we succeed again – in Årdal, in Skien and elsewhere – with successful transitions, which we have many good examples of in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e629	There will be two follow-up questions – first Siv Jensen.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e632	I have to go back to the round of green certificates. The Prime Minister was injured to say that he could well write down the calculations, even though they were very simple to understand. He gave the closest impression that in the opposition we were simply a little too stupid to understand what the government had done, or had not done on the occasion of the case. It's a serious claim, and I think it's destroying a little bit of the seriousness of the challenge around the green certificates, in a situation that's quite unique, namely where both the environmental movement, the business community, the trade organisations and a total increase have agreed on the level of ambition. The questions are: Has the Prime Minister had any commitment to this issue at all? Has the Prime Minister bothered to contact the Swedish Prime Minister, to see if it would have been possible to establish an agreement that would have been in the interests of both Norway and Sweden? Or is it that the cooperation to which the Prime Minister invited Stortinget is no longer worth anything, and that he will not give us any insight into the negotiations that are going on in the back on something as important as this issue?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e641	It's a bunch of stuff that's wanted green certificates, and it's also written in the Soria Moria statement. But a total increase has not said anything about the level of ambition, or about the amount of the payment obligations and thereby about the impact on the electricity price. Therefore, it is not possible to be absolutely sure of what the Stortinget – neither what the Labour Party in the Stortinget nor what other parties in the Stortinget – meant, because one did not want to figure this out. And that's when the numerical fixation is going to happen, that we actually see how much the current price is going to increase, and we see how the distribution is going to happen with regard to investments in Norway and investment in Sweden. So I repeat, we're for green certificates, we've worked for green certificates, but we believe that in terms of the numbers we discussed with Sweden, the differences were too large. Therefore, instead, we are betting on other instruments, such as lower electricity prices and better environment in Norway. Yes, I have engaged in the matter. There are some problems that are very simple, others are very complicated. We're going to try to contribute as much clarity as possible to both the complex and the simple operations, and they're obviously based on complicated assumptions. Yeah, I've been talking to Göran Persson, because we wanted to get green certificates. And there's full agreement about that in the government. But we're not interested in a system of green certificates that leads to an unreasonable increase in power prices. And it's funny to hear from the Progress Party that I've been willing to raise the power price too little. Because that's what they're really asking me to go to Göran Persson and say: I want to increase the electricity prices a lot in Norway and give the money to Swedish consumers. I think that's nice.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e659	President! To a manifest misunderstanding!
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e664	There is no opportunity to take the floor for obvious misunderstandings in the oral question procedure. Ingredient S. Sørfonn – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e670	The main impression in this spontaneous Question Time is a government saying one thing and doing something else. But when there are only a few days from the time when the Minister of Finance demands a wage moderation for top government leaders, until this is repudiated by the Minister of Industry, it actually gives the impression of a government saying something, saying something else. This is confusing for us politicians – we can live with that – but it is also confusing for business, especially for the businesses in which the state owns. Does the Prime Minister see such double communication as a very bad ownership policy? At least this appears to be a strange concreteisation of an active industrial policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e677	Let me make it quite clear that the whole government – all the state councils, all the state secretaries, all the advisers and everyone else in the government parties – believes 1. that managers in state enterprises should show moderation2. that we should have paylines to ensure it3. That the guidelines we have, we're going to go through to see if they should be tightened up4. that we should not only be concerned with wage moderation in state enterprises, but that we should also be concerned with it in private enterprises – whether they are private in the meaning of Hydro, i.e. state participation, or they are fully private. That is why we go through the law on public limited-liability companies, to look at the possibilities for – more than that, in fact, we are working on proposals for – how we can order the general meeting to establish guidelines for remuneration to top managers. And then I think not only about pay, because it's not pay that's the main challenge, but about the share-based remuneration systems, the so-called options. We have to do something with them. The whole government thinks that we have to do something about it, and the whole government is going to propose it. In this case, we can discuss good governance, social governance, social cohesion and moderation in all Norwegian companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e697	So this is the time for the oral questioning process, and we're going to the ordinary questioning procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e703	There will be a number of changes in the list of questions set out, and the President will refer in this context to the overview distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 1, from the representative of Per-Kristian Foss to the Prime Minister, will be answered by the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade. Question 4, from the representative Anne Margrethe Larsen to the Minister for Development, will be answered by the Minister for the Environment on behalf of the Minister for Development, who has left. Question 7, from the representative of Mr. Kenneth Svendsen to the Minister for Transport, will be taken up by the representative of Mr. Jan Arild Ellingsen. Question 19, from the representative Morten Høglund to the Minister for Labour and Inclusion, will be answered by the Minister for Health and Welfare on behalf of the Minister for Labour and Inclusion, who has been absent. Questions 20 and 21, from representatives Åse Gunhild Woie Duesund and André N. Skkelstad respectively to the Minister for Labour and Inclusion, are postponed to the next Question Time when the Council of State has left. Question 22, from the representative Trine Skei Grande to the Minister for Children and Gender Equality, is postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left. Question 23, from the representative Hans Olav Syversen to the Minister for Culture and the Church, will be raised by the representative Aud Kvalbein.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e728	This question, from Per-Kristian Foss to the Prime Minister, will be answered by the Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e731	My question, which will then go to the Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade, is: ‘Representatives of the Government and Government Parties have arranged that the boards of companies in which the State owns should listen to ‘signals’ from the Government. Does the Council of State believe that this type of communication can adequately safeguard the control of State ownership by the Grand Government and the National Audit Office?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e740	Let me first point out that it is the Council of State that has the constitutional responsibility for the management of the state's ownership of the individual company, and she or he alone, who is responsible for the dialogue with the company and its board on behalf of the state that owns. Furthermore, the State as a shareholder participates in decisions only through formal decisions taken at the general meeting and business meetings. The National Audit Office receives minutes from general meetings and business meetings and the report of the Council of State on the management of the ownership of individual companies. For matters that are not dealt with in the top organ of the companies, the responsibility for decisions lies with the board. There is no previous practice, nor will it be under this government, that a State Council provides ‘control signals’ that interfere with the responsibility for individual decisions held by the Governing Board. In whole companies, the Riksaudition is sent to the Board of Directors and can thus follow the work of the Boards. As part of the follow-up to ownership, regular meetings are held with the companies in which the State owns. It may be a review of economic developments or a briefing on strategic issues relating to companies. Such meetings are in line with what is common between the companies and larger owners. This contact is managed within the framework of company and securities law, not least with regard to the non-discrimination of shareholders. In such meetings, the Council of State or the Ministry does not give signals that go beyond the powers conferred by the Storting or conflict with the distribution of competences in share law or generally accepted principles of ownership management. The framework for sound ownership does not prevent the State, like any other shareholder, from promoting views in relation to its general operations. It is wise for governments, and also in accordance with sound ownership principles, to listen to arguments and views expressed by shareholders and others and to include them in their judgements. But it is always the company's management and board that must take the concrete decisions for which they are responsible under company law. On this basis, I cannot see that today's practice of exercising ownership in relation to the responsibility for individual decisions in the companies where the State is the owner raises particular problems with regard to the control of ownership by the Stortinges and the Riksrevision.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e760	I thank you for your answer. In the first sentence of the answer is really the reason why I asked the Prime Minister, because this question is a general question to all government councils that have constitutional responsibility for the management of state enterprises, and it is more than the Minister of Enterprise. But I take note of how the Government responds, and only notices that the Riksrevision and the Stortinge can basically ignore all the statements made by state councils – whether it be finance ministers or others – that individual companies, in this case it was Telenor, must take up the so-called governance signals given through the newspapers. I understand from the Council of State's reply now that opinions of the type "should not terminate a subsidiary in which one is part-owner" are newspaper opinions without political obligations for the board or for the company?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e767	It is important to be clear in the answers, I understand. What underlies my response is that the governance tools we have and govern – general meetings, electoral committees in governing representation – are the arenas and forums in which the state exercises its ownership. It has been, it will always be. But the political debate that is going on, linked to the social responsibility of different companies, will always be there, and I think that's positive. Whether the governing bodies of the companies take the signals given, the companies themselves must assess and take the decisions to be taken in the bodies where the decisions are to be taken. It's primarily in the control rooms.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e774	I get it. However, a good administrative audit shall also take into account the signals given. When the signals are given in an informal way that neither the Stortinget nor the Riksrevision can verify, i.e. the type of newspaper statements, where one government council says something and the other state council says the opposite – I use again Telenor 1881 as an example – there is no way of post-controlling such informal signals. That's the problem. I do not fully understand that the Minister of Industry did not stick to his first answer, where it was very clear that the sole responsibility of the government was to deal with the signals or messages given through formal documentation, i.e. via a roll-call message and in other ways. I have the following additional questions: the Minister of Finance recently operates in an opinion with the term «State Representatives of the Government of Hydro». Very familiar is a board elected unanimously by the board of directors. Who, then, are the state's representatives in Hydro's government?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e783	The composition of the Management Board and the individual members of the Management Board are a college which performs its function on the Board of Directors in the formal meetings of the Management Board, where the decisions are also taken. I have also read the newspapers, but I have not registered that the Minister of Finance and I have at any time disagreed on how the state should handle its ownership.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e794	I have a question for the Minister of Finance. ‘The 2004 Law on Landfills has made it clear to many that there may be a significant difference in the value of a dwelling on a land attached and a dwelling on a land owned. However, taxing and Equation values on people's homes reflect little of this difference, and there is no consistent practice, if any, for the difference to arise from the tax on wealth. What will the Council of State do to ensure that people with housing on fixed grounds get a more equal and fair treatment by the equation?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e803	The starting point of the Tax Act is that property, including real estate, is to be determined at trading value per. 1 January of the Equation Year. Real estate is defined as buildings and plots. Under the tax law, the value of residential and recreational property may be lower than its value in turnover, and under the applicable rules, the value of housing and recreational property shall not be higher than 30 pst. the market value. The property tax on land is slightly different depending on whether the fastening contract is considered to be temporary or permanent, i.e. longer duration of 99 years. I do not go into permanent rights, because I believe that the question has to be read in such a way that it is primarily about the fixed-term agreements. In the case of fixed-dwelling plots, the entire land value shall be included in the taxable assets of the landowner and for the landowner only the value of the building. The landowner is not deducted from the value of the encumbrances represented by the fastening contract and is not taxed for the capitalised value of the claim for annual fastening charge. Similarly, the owner of the house shall not be liable for the value of the right of attachment, nor shall he be deducted from the capitalised value of the obligation to pay a fixed charge. Because only the building is part of the property of the occupant when the land is attached, its residential property will often be lower than by the land itself. Under the tax regime for property valuation, it is not to be avoided that the setting of separate Equation Value for fasted and fasted buildings often has to be based on discretionary judgements, as is the case for other land and buildings. The tax authorities have stated that there is no experience to suggest that the valuation of dwellings on fixed land has created special problems in this way. In practice, it is necessary to assess in concrete terms the importance of a fast-track contract to the value of the property's turnover. According to Equation ABC for 2005, as an aid to arrive at the property value of the accrualed area, one can capitalise the annual fastening charges using a net capitalisation factor of 8. In this area, these guidelines contribute to a more consistent practice. In society, much more attention has been paid to the importance of the right of attachment to the value of the property, and that is also the starting point for the questioner’s questions. In part, it is probably due to the new legal regulations, to which the questioner refers, on the regulation of fastening agreements and on their redemption, and perhaps not least to the substantial increase in many fastening fees and thus to the large difference in self-ownership and fastness. Such attention may subsequently be expected to affect what are the sales values, which in turn may affect the Equation Tariffs. But I don't imagine that we can go in with sudden changes in the equation tariffs because of this. How we can achieve a more consistent and fair valuation of all types of real estate for tax purposes is one of the issues that I intend to work closely with in the future. In this context, I would also like to take a closer look at the rules and practices for the valuation of fasteners and the building of fasteners.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e818	I thank you for the answer and for a thorough review of Section 4 of the Tax Act and this year's Equation-ABC, which I have also read with interest, and that is the background to the question. Two weeks ago, the Minister of Finance signed a similar discussion on the document fee for parties. The Minister of Finance then said: ‘Thus, in contrast to previous ones,’ – i.e. in relation to the fact that the new Law on Landings has now been given – ‘there can be a significant difference in the value of a dwelling on a fixed site and a dwelling on an owned land.’ When the answer is that you don't want to make sudden changes, I still see that the Minister of Finance sees that there are differences that we have to take into account also in the practice of the law.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e830	I think the representative Fleet should now add the good side. I know a lot of Santas and I'm busy with these questions. I see that there are many who have had significant changes since the last government changed the law on Santa Claus. In the examples I can refer to in practice, owner-occupied dwellings and owner-occupied dwellings in the same residential area have previously had about the same market value, but because the Mortgage Act has changed the possibility to collect a party fee, it has become clear throughout the neighborhood that one owner of the house owns only the house and not the plot, and that it is of great importance for how you look at the value of the house. How important it is, and how significant it is for the market value of selling one house in relation to the other, I am unable to say today. But we have to follow this very closely, so that there are as many correct values as possible on the basis of which we are taxing.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e835	The last one is completely correct, and that's what the tax law also says, that this has to be completely correct. Now, when the values are changing – at least the perception is – I think it is very important that either strong signals are sent out on how the practice should be when making judgement in relation to the values, or that you might look a little bit closer to the tax law itself and are a little stronger at making a difference. That is the problem today when you ask questions on the subject of equations, the Equations Offices, the Feds and the Feds. The answer is that it's hard to get through with this. It's a real problem for some hundreds of thousands of people, and it's quite right, as the finance minister says, that it will be increasing, and that there is a need to do something about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e840	I think that the representative Fleet is very precise when he describes what they think is happening in this area, namely a perception that the value is smaller because of the party contract, but that you really don't know how big a deal this is. That, of course, makes it very difficult, as I started to answer, to go in and make sudden changes in the valuation of this. However, the fleet should be aware that the Minister of Finance is very closely following this and is very committed to ensuring that the landowners do not get out badly.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e849	‘The Irish Government is working with full weight to close the nuclear recovery facility in Sellafield. Among other things, the Irish Government has decided that it will bring the Sellafield case before the European Court of Justice. Norway cooperated closely with Ireland in order to clean the technetium emissions from this nuclear recovery facility. How will the Government now assist Ireland in the closure of this facility, which represents a high environmental and safety risk also for Norway?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e856	As early as 2001, Ireland filed an action against the United Kingdom before the United Nations Tribunal for the Law of the Sea on the basis of claims that the United Kingdom had withheld information from Ireland that it was entitled to initiate the so-called MOX plant in Sellafield. In 2003, the European Commission referred Ireland to the Court of Justice of the European Union because they considered the case to fall within the competence of the European Union. What has now happened is that the adviser of the European Court of Justice has come to the conclusion that Ireland is not in a position to bring the case before the Court of Justice. The case is not finally settled, but such advice is usually followed by the Court, so that Ireland will hardly be able to proceed with the case. Ireland has, of course, expressed disappointment at this, and from the government, among other things. stated that if Ireland is prevented from bringing proceedings before the Court of Justice, the EU Commission must follow up the environmental and safety aspects of the Sellafield plant in a more practical manner. The Irish Minister for the Environment has also stated that Ireland will continue to use all diplomatic and judicial opportunities to ensure that Sellafield is closed. However, it is unusual for an EU country to bring another EU country to justice. Norway and Ireland have had and continue to benefit from each other’s work in the Sellafield case. Not least, Ireland enjoys the fact that technetium emissions are now halted, mainly as a result of a massive Norwegian pressure on the case. Emissions affecting Norwegian regions and interests have subsequently been greatly reduced. The Norwegian authorities are in constant contact and dialogue with the UK authorities on the safety of the Sellafield plant, and not least on the forthcoming closure of old plants and the significant stockpiles of waste and facilities that the British have now started. Initiatives have also been taken to strengthen alert procedures in the event of events that may affect Norway. From the Norwegian side, we have also made it clear that we do not want the THORP plant to be reopened in Sellafield, which has been closed since it was discovered leakage in April last year. This is primarily related to our concern about the safety of this installation, and the large emission potential of the installation represents if a serious incident occurs. Like Ireland, we are concerned that the EU is also taking a more firm approach to the safety aspects of Sellafield and other nuclear installations within the EU. We will also continue to have good contact with the Irish authorities on these important issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e871	I thank you for the answer and for a description of the facts, which I very much agree with. Once I have asked this question, it is because Norway benefited well from the support from Ireland when we got to stop the technetium emissions. However, although the installation has reduced emissions, it continues to pose safety and environmental risks to Norway as well. My follow-up question is whether the Council of State can confirm that she continues to regard the plant as a safety and environmental risk affecting Norway and that it is therefore important that a person keep the pressure on this matter. Is the Council aware that a Norwegian national may seek to get a Nordic initiative, so that one with a heavy load can express itself in favour of Ireland's further involvement? And can the Council of States confirm that, in her discussions with colleagues from the United Kingdom and Ireland, she will underline Norway's commitment to this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e880	I can confirm that this is a topic that is on the agenda when Nordic ministers meet. I can also confirm that the Government will continue to keep in touch with colleagues both within the EU and in Nordic contexts. This means that we still keep a strong pressure on the matter. I would also like to stress that in recent years there has been good contact between the Norwegian authorities and the authorities in both the United Kingdom and Ireland, which means that we follow developments closely. Fortunately, due to the involvement shown by both Norwegian and other country authorities, the safety of the plant has become stronger in focus.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e887	I record that the Council of State says that one will follow what is happening, carefully, and that one will have contact. What I asked for is a more offensive effort, an engagement that is clearer, and that makes Norway not only participate in line with others, but take on a leading role in supporting Ireland's commitment. Here I do not think the answer from the Council of State is good enough. I would like to ask again whether it may be appropriate to take a Nordic initiative which is even more clear that a supporter of Ireland in the offensive now announced. The Stoltenberg I government excelled at the fact that the Prime Minister did not do what he said he would do, namely to take this up in his conversations with Tony Blair. That's what Bondevik did when he took over, and it was the commitment of the previous government that gave the result. I would therefore ask the Council of State to confirm that this is a subject which the Prime Minister will also take with him when he is going to have his talks with his British and Irish colleague.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e896	This exposure to the security of Sellafield has been shared by many former prime ministers and also by the current government. A letter was sent to the European Energy Commissioner from former Minister for the Environment Hareide, who stressed the need for a close dialogue and follow developments closely. I have reminded you of the European Union's response to the enquiry made by the previous government of the Minister for the Protection of the Environment, Mr Hareide, and thus put a new commitment behind the matter. I would like to stress that it is important for Norway to follow up on what is happening at the Sellafield plant. The stork shall be absolutely sure that this is followed carefully, by both my involvement and the entire government's commitment.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e909	This question, from Anne Margrethe Larsen to the Minister for Development, will be answered by the Minister for Environmental Protection on behalf of the Minister for Development.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e912	‘Increasing use of hazardous chemicals in developing countries contaminates soil, water and air. As a result, hundreds of thousands of people die every year, and health damage affects millions of people worldwide. Dangerous chemicals are also an obstacle to trade in food from developing countries. Norway has the prerequisites and the point skills to counter this, including: through Bioforsk, SINTEF, the Development Fund and the SFT. Will the U.D. Action Plan on the Environment and Assistance contain concrete measures that Norway can contribute to tackling these problems?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e919	The Soria Moria Declaration states that Norway will become a leading country in environmental policy, and that the Government will take initiatives to give higher priority to the environment in Norwegian and international aid. This means that the environment will form a major part of development policy and that sustainable development will be a key element of Norwegian aid. The Environmental Assistance Action Plan is under preparation. This plan will ensure a more systematic implementation of environmental assistance. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs carries out a broad and inclusive process, in which all interested parties shall be consulted. The action plan is expected to be completed before the summer. Emissions of hazardous chemicals to health and the environment hit the poorest. Non-control of the use and release of hazardous chemicals affects health, the environment, well-being, trade and growth in developing countries. Global chemicals production is expected to double by 2020. The largest growth will occur in developing countries. Norway has therefore actively pursued the global chemical strategy, known as SAICM, to strengthen international control of hazardous chemicals. The SAICM provides an overall framework for activities in sectors such as the environment, health and assistance. Norway has recently granted 25 million. kr to a launch programme for SAICM activities in developing countries. The follow-up to this strategy is one concrete action to address the growing problems of the use of hazardous chemicals and becomes an important part of the environmental action plan for assistance in this area. In this context, increased competence and capacity in the field of chemicals are important. Here we have a lot to contribute from the Norwegian side, not least in terms of peak competence, to which the representative Larsen correctly refers in the question.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e932	I thank the Council of State for the answer, and I am pleased that this action plan is now being followed up. The previous government ordered this environmental assistance plan, just to focus on a silent threat to the environment. The production of chemicals exploded in the last century. Only in the EU market are about 100 000 different chemicals registered, and chemicals policy regulation is being tried at EU level. Will the Government only delineate the efforts against these chemicals in our co-operative countries, or does the Government think wider in international context?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e941	In this area, of course, the Government thinks wider. What the representative said is a large area of chemicals and environmental pollutants, and this is one of the world's greatest environmental challenges. We work here, among others. with the regulation of chemical emissions, and we already have a number of international agreements in place. We also need to work more actively to implement them in different countries and in different contexts. This is a work that we prioritise, both nationally and internationally.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e946	As the Council of State said, the Soria Moria Declaration says that ‘the government is going to work for people to experience a non-toxic everyday life’, and this, of course, also applies to people in developing countries. Norwegian assistance has many good goals and strategies, but it is not possible to follow up, due to a lack of resources. Will the Government in this case take a real economic boost for a large-scale effort to combat a dangerous environmental threat?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e951	There is no doubt that the Government will prioritise work on chemicals and work on a non-toxic everyday life, both nationally and internationally. On the specific question of the content of the action plan to be presented, I have to point out that the plan is still under preparation. There will be even more specific when the plan is in place before summer. There we just want to specify measures and work in the different countries where this is going to take place. But what I can assure the Storting about is that the work against chemicals and the work for a non-toxic everyday life, including for the poorest, has a high priority in the government's work on development issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e962	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade the following questions: ‘Does the Council of State agree with its State Secretary that the State should intervene so that Telenor cannot assess the Chamber of Information in 1881?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e969	The government asked Telenor before Christmas for a statement on this matter. Telenor has stated in a letter that they consider the future ownership of the Information AS. According to Telenor, this is done to ensure that the Information AS is given access to new capital. Telenor believes that this is necessary in order to be able to continue the positive development The information has been in spite of increasing competition. Telenor has not taken a final decision in this matter. The sale of activities, conversions, closures and restructurings are natural processes in the development of all companies, including in companies in which the State holds interests. A decision in Telenor to sell the remaining shares of the Information AS falls within the responsibility of the Telenor ASA Board.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e976	I thank the Council of State for your answer. Over the last two hours, we've been given a lot of examples that the government thinks different things before and after the election, and that different parties and different state councils feel different things at the same time. But here we are facing a new variant, where the same government council and the same department mean different things at the same time. For at the same time as Councillor Eriksen says what he is now saying here, his Secretary of State, and also Odd Eriksen as leader of the Nordland Labour Party, ask the Government for a completely different attitude to this. They have asked the Government to continue to ensure public ownership of the Information in 1881. Does the Council of State understand that this can create doubt and uncertainty in the market and damage the Enlightenment in 1881?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e985	The government and the three parties that make up the government today mean the same thing today as we meant before the elections. We are now doing what we promised the voters in connection with the election. I am aware that a number of parties in the Workers' Party have expressed what they think is best for the numbering information. They must be allowed to. As far as I know, there are no party states that have demanded how I should exercise my role as Council of State in the management of state interests in Telenor. What is important to me, and what has been expressed from different parties, is that Telenor must comply with the agreement concluded between Telenor and the Ministry of Transport in order to facilitate such a service production as the Information 1881 carries out.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e992	I would like to thank you again for your answer. I tried a little for fun to call the Information and ask for the number of the Government. It took them about eight seconds to say that it's 22,24,9090. It seems that this is perhaps proof that it is easier to get the Information 1881 to say something concrete about the Government, than it is to get the Government to say something concrete about 1881. But a little back to where I was. I feel an insecurity here, for at the same time as we get the announcement from the board meeting in the Nordic Labour Party, where the council of state Eriksen himself was present, where a request from the government to secure public ownership, I perceive the council of state so that he will not give a whole signal about or interfere with his decisions. When it comes to the signal, I refer to the first question the Council of State got earlier today. Can I confirm this?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e1003	I would like to repeat what I said in my first post, that what is important to me is that Telenor delivers the services they have committed to through an agreement between Telenor and the Ministry of Transport. The fact that different parties in the county have expressed concern both in relation to the service to be provided and the impact it may have on different communities if a change of ownership takes place is natural, and I respect that. They must be allowed to do the same. In my exercise of the role of state council and as manager of state interests in Telenor, I will consider the recordings that are coming, but it is not the same as that the government is giving unclear signals as to our ownership of Telenor.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e1012	I will ask the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade the following questions: ‘In the newspaper on 23 February 2006, the Council of State states that the Government is to ensure that Hydro assumes social responsibility. In what way does the Government define that a company takes social responsibility, and in what way will the Government specifically ensure that Hydro assumes social responsibility in Årdal?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e1021	The core concept of social responsibility is that enterprises themselves seek to see the financial, environmental and social dimensions of their own activities in the context. Social responsibility extends the framework for good ownership and corporate governance to also affect relations with non-owners, such as: employees, communities, creditors and others with whom the companies have relations. Social responsibility is not just a matter of targeting publicly owned businesses. Privates as well as companies where the state owns all or part of the companies must be aware of their social responsibility. The concept of social responsibility covers a number of aspects, including: related to the environment, equality, working conditions, human rights, ethics and community. It should not be possible to create the impression that taking social responsibility is contrary to commercial behaviour. Companies that should be competitive over time and have a long-term perspective on their activities must have a good and balanced relationship with their environment. It is not without reason that the Norwegian recommendations for ownership management and company management include: is stressed that ‘The Agency should clarify its value base and develop ethical guidelines in accordance with this Regulation’. In the context of migration, social responsibility means early inclusion of employees and communities in decisions and participation in the planning of actions. It is also societal responsibility to contribute through new investments and to contribute funds to the establishment of new activities on the ground or through support for conversion measures for workers who lose their jobs. It is also societal responsibility to focus on research and development that can lead to new initiatives in the communities concerned. Therefore, when the representative Torbjørn Hansen asks how the Government is to ‘ensure’ that Hydro assumes social responsibility in Årdal, the answer must be that in dialogue with the company we must make sure that it contributes through good processes to facilitating the challenges posed by the transformations in the company’s operations for the people who work there, the community and others involved. We've done this, and we're still doing that. I would like to stress that in this context, the state does not primarily act as owner of Hydro, but engages in the same way as it is the tradition of other transformations into vulnerable communities. Hydro has a tradition of showing social responsibility, and I have great faith that Hydro, the state and the community in common will achieve a good solution for the Årdal community. The agreement concluded between Hydro, Høyanger kommune and Høyanger Chemical Trade Unions is an example of how social responsibility can be exercised in practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e1038	I would like to thank for the answer and say that I agree with much of what has been said in general terms about this with social responsibility. The Council of State also stated that social responsibility could also have elements in relation to environmental protection, and in the same paper in the newspaper on 23 February, the Council of State said that he had asked Norsk Hydro to consider re-applying for the suspension of the closure of these Søderberg ovens, and that he would not be sorry if such an application was made. But the SFT already said in the year 2000 that you have to close these ovens, and the government of Stoltenberg I rejected the anchor from Norsk Hydro at the time. Does the Government believe that it will be taking social responsibility from the Norwegian Hydro side to continue using these Søderberg ovens?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e1045	The decision by Hydro to close the production of aluminium based on the Søderberg method has its justification for environmentally harmful emissions and a directive of the environmental protection authorities. The fact that I have asked Hydro to assess the timing of the shut-down of the Søderberg plants is more related to the fact that Hydro itself has to make an assessment of what is correct and appropriate in relation to the requirements given. It may be in relation to the ongoing transformations in the Årdal community, it may be in relation to whether the company is now producing and operates the Søderberg facilities, in a way that takes more account of the environmental constraints pointed out by the SFT than this type of production had five years ago. But it's Hydro's management that has to make the decision in relation to the orders given. I don't intend to try Hydro in that way.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e1050	I got the impression that the Council of State had an opinion when it came to that question, as he had asked for such an application. But I want to address another issue that is also about social responsibility in the context of job closure, which has been a central issue today. According to the Evening Post, Norwegian Forest has now maintained a power contract with a value of 100 million. DKK over five years, and these 100 million would otherwise have fallen into the community and the treasury and could have been used for e.g. a more active industrial policy, which we haven't seen much after the government change. In return for these 100 million power subsidies, Norwegian Forest has agreed to spend 30 million. kr to a local nutrition fund, and this says the Council of State in the Evening Post today that everyone will serve. But the Minister of Industry really believes that everyone's making out that the state's spending 100 million. DKK in subsidies in exchange for 30 million. kr in a nutrition fund, and is taking responsibility for society to get 100 million. NOK to give 30 million. Do you really want to delete this item?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e1057	First of all, I would like to say that I have a great understanding of the people who become unemployed after the Norwegian Forest has decided to close the Union. The agreement pointed out here by the representative Torbjørn Hansen is an agreement concluded between Norwegian Forest and the local community in Skien. I am very pleased that the agreement was recommended by the trustees, by the municipality of Skien, and that the employees also seem to be satisfied with the package solution that was presented yesterday. It is a responsibility and a task of the community, and the agreement is between the community, the municipality of Skien and the Norwegian Forest, where the state does not have a direct role.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e1069	This question, from the representative of Mr. Kenneth Svendsen to the Minister for Transport, will be raised by the representative of Mr. Jan Arild Ellingsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e1072	I would like to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘In the last two years, seven human lives have been lost on rv. 80 between Valnesfjord and the Twelfth state of Northern Ireland. Just since the turn of the year, three people have been killed in two different accidents. This route is one of the most trafficked routes in North Norway. Will the Council of State take the initiative to improve the road route and to review winter maintenance requirements in the light of significant weather changes in recent years?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e1081	I am aware that it has our serious accidents on rv. 80 between Valnesfjord and Transylvania. It is therefore important to implement projects and measures agreed by local authorities in the Road Package Salt. The municipality of Bodø, the municipality of Fauske and the municipality of Nordland are in favour of partly toll-financed development of Rv. Eighty in two phases. Between Valnesfjord and Tverrland, the State Road Service proposes minor improvements in Mjølneskeliva in Phase 1 between 2006 and 2009. The remainder of the route Streams-Naurstadhögda-Lødning is part of phase 2. The development of phase 1 and phase 2 will cover actions at sections and points that are exposed. Phase 1 covers the projects that have come the longest in planning and that have detailed cost estimates. Phase 1 also includes the development of Rv. 17 Cross-country–Guyøstraumen and rv. 80 Ass-Straumsnes. The start-up of the Phase 1 projects has been established for the period 2006-2009. Phase 2 is planned for adoption in Bodø and Fauske municipalities in the autumn of 2008. In the case of operation of the road network, this is done in line with the State Road Service’s maintenance manual, which sets out standard requirements for the operation of the road network. Efforts are being made to improve the procedures for complying with the required standard. The manual was last revised in 2003. There is currently a greater effort to go through the default requirements. The manual is based on current climatic conditions and takes little consideration of changes in climatic conditions. I addressed all the challenges that changing climate conditions can pose for transport in the autumn of 2005, and the State Road Administration is now working on a project to assess whether to change the requirements for cutting safety, new installations, maintenance and operation of roads, bridges and ferries resulting from changes in climatic conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e1096	I thank the Council of State for a preliminary reply. It was in many ways a situational description and little concrete, at my discretion. So it's a fact that the Council of State points out here is that you have to do a part of the Road Package Salt, and you have to do a part now, between 2006 and 2009. The three fatal accidents that have occurred since the New Year have not occurred at the points affected – 2006–2009. So that means that the government here is willing to take the chance that accidents can still happen at those points where three people have already been killed in the current year. I also believe that the Council of State believes that we should not accept that human life goes away for us in traffic. It would be interesting to hear the Council of State balance between the need for investment and how many deaths we see need to accept because of the lack of efforts on the allocation side.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e1105	The Government is working on zero vision as the pending traffic security work tab. A lot of work is done in different fields to secure the roads. It is that we may not be able to guard against the tragic accidents that are happening, but it is a good thing that 2005 was the year in which we had fewer deadlocks on the Norwegian road in very many years. There has been a downward trend that shows that the work done, both in terms of ensuring technical safety in cars and buses, in improving driver card training and, of course, in building new roads and improving existing roads to become more roadworthy, is a work that asks for fruit. It's a work that the Government and I will intensify. We are also working to increase the framework for road construction, in line with what is in NTP’s action plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e1110	I thank you again for the answer, and I look forward to an increased effort by the new government. It's going to be interesting to see. At the same time, I record that at the points where three people have been killed in the current year, they do not intend to do anything until after 2009, which I personally think is surprising and not particularly uplifting. So the Council of State says you're considering looking at winter maintenance. This is one of the most disused road sections in North Norway. For example, the Council of State will: assess whether to have a maintenance to keep the road in its main capacity throughout the year in order to ensure accidents? It is that the lead – and the passenger, probably – is the primary cause of accidents. I also assume that the Council of State will agree with me that looking unilaterally at road investment without looking at the savings that can be achieved by making precisely those investments is not sensible.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e1119	I totally agree with the representative Ellingen, who says that prevention is a better way to drive social development than repair. It also applies in the field of transport. And then, unfortunately, we can't rework the plan after the clocks that happen at any given time. Planning takes place in a slightly longer-term perspective than that, even though I would like to have a pot to put on, for example. this piece of road that we are now discussing. Rv. Today, 80 are held at the same time as the current winter standard, but from the next winter, it has been estimated to introduce a permanent strategy on the most trafficked routes towards the centre. Today there is no road in North Norway that has such winter maintenance, but it should be considered to set in until the next winter.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e1132	‘Norway has abundant supply of LNG gas but uses this gas very little as fuel. Only a few ferries and one supply ship are currently built for LNG as fuel. The former Minister of Transport, Seven, provided that a large tribal road link in Rogaland and Hordaland was offered with the gas option to save the environment for NOx and CO2 emissions. The Council of State will contribute to the creation of large ferry links, e.g.: The link between the Molde and the West in More and Romesdal, is gas ferries provided?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e1142	Gas operations generally have good environmental characteristics. The representative Gerde specifically asks about the Molde-Vestnes connection. In this context, I can inform you that the Road Directorate has been given an assessment of the environmental properties of gas operations in this connection. With a route production that is currently connected, new LNG ferries will give NOx emissions of only 10 pst. the emission of a corresponding new dieselferje. CO2 emissions could be reduced by about 25 pst. Compliance with the obligations under the Gothenburg Protocol is required. Norway shall, as is known, reduce NOx emissions by 30 pst. before 2010. Gas operations in the ferries sector are therefore very interesting in this context. The government budget stated that the government is working to settle the issue of a NOx tax. This work is based on technology neutrality. The Bondevik II government stressed technology neutrality in its work on this issue. Neutrality results in a reduction in emissions at as low a cost as recommended. Choice of the level of charges is important in that context. The correct level of charges allows actors to choose the most effective solution without imposing requirements on a particular type of technology in the calls. NOx is not yet set. It is therefore difficult to include non-lethal requirements in the first call. On the other hand, I thought it would be unfortunate if the decision time for the NOx tax were to lead to no gas ferries being selected for the Molde-Vestnes connection. The calculations carried out by the Directorate of Roads clearly show that with current NOx charging rates it could be accounting for gas operations. There is an important knowledge for the Government when one with the very first has to decide on the form of operation of the Molde-Vestnes connection.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e1174	I thank you for the answer, which I understand optimistically when it comes to the ferry link Molde-Vestnes and also to other ferry connections along our coast. I wonder if the Minister for Transport can be a little clearer. There was no legislation in place with the previous government, but it was then worked so that the ferry companies operating in Hordaland and Rogaland chose the option. Today such ferries are in operation.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e1181	No, unfortunately, the Bondevik II government didn't do anything to implement a NOx reduction code. One should have done that. Time goes by, and until 2010 and the implementation of the Gothenburg Protocol, it is only time and means for Norway to meet the commitments we have. So it was high time there was a powerful government. We are now preparing a legislative framework to be put forward in the context of the budget. There is not much more to comment on. I'm positive for the use of gas ferries, and I mean what the previous government did in that area was positive. This is mentioned in the Soria Moria statement, in a positive sense, and I will work to follow it up.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e1191	Even if there was no legislation at the time, it was started, and it was a Minister of Transport who was powerful enough to get through gas ferry operations that time. I expect it to be this time as well, based on the signals given here. I have a question that goes a little further when it comes to LNG gas on ships. This is a new technology that has been tried very little. It has, as I know it, been on supply ships and some ferries. The Minister of Transport, together with the Minister of Industry, sees this as a possible technology development that Norwegian shipyards may have benefited in the future, when the great pressure on the shipyards is once rekindled – we know it goes up and down? Today, the Minister of Industry has had problems referring to new areas of activity. This could be a new bet area for our shipping industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e1198	There is no doubt that the construction of the five gas ferries to be put into operation is an exciting project for Norwegian shipyards. To further develop that technology I see absolutely as a possibility. The government is continuously developing a good and active industrial policy, including in this area. What can make it problematic for us is that everything that is going to be offered in this sector is going out in the EEA area, and there is no indication that a bet in this area can only benefit Norwegian shipyards, since foreign yards will, of course, also sign up for that competition. But the maritime industry is definitely an important strategic industry that we need to develop further.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e1211	I would like to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: «Nearly every day in winter, an accident has occurred with vehicle combinations on slippery and narrow roads in Hedmark, especially on rv. 3rd@item: inlistbox This creates life-threatening situations and costs society a lot of resources and transporters a lot of money. This may be due, inter alia, to Rv. 3 is approx. 90 pst. of the length of the road narrower than that adopted by the Stortinget. What will help the Council of State to reduce the number of accidents on rv. 3?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e1220	I am, as the representative of Bredvold, busy with the security on the Norwegian road. In the case of rv. 3 in Hedmark, this road is a major road for heavy traffic between North and Middle Norway and the Oslo area, and heavy traffic has increased in recent years. Traffic on rv. 3 between Ulsberg in South Trundelag and Elverum in Hedmark varies between 1700 and over 5,000 vehicles per year. day. Heavy traffic represents 28 and 18 pst respectively. of the total traffic in the two locations. The emergency situation has been relatively stable over the period 1998–2005. However, the number of personal injuries has decreased by 10 pst. 28 people are killed and 44 seriously injured in the eight-year period. Rv. 3 north of Rena has a wide road width between 7 and 8 meters. In St.meld. No 37 for 1996-1997, on Norwegian Road and Traffic Plan 1998–2007, a minimum road width of 8.5 metres has been assumed for the development of the main road network. However, the requirement for road width shall be seen in conjunction with, inter alia. traffic volume. Distribution of road standard on the main road pane, etc. Road width is included as part of the route-by-route distribution of the tribal roads and will be followed up in the National Transport Plan 2010–2019. From the point of view of its importance for transport between Oslo and Trondheim, the priorities for Rv shall be: 3 is seen in conjunction with the priorities of E6 between Oslo and Trondheim, cf. St.meld. No 46 for 1999-2000, on the national transport plan 2002–2011. In St.meld. No 24 for 2003-2004, on the national transport plan 2006-2015, a smaller investment measure can be implemented, including: rectification of existing rv. 3 between Elverum and Rena in the first four-year period. However, the action programme for investments on the main road network for the period 2006-2009 does not prioritise investments on Rv. 3 in Hedmark. In South Trøndelag, conversion south of Ulsberg is completed in 2006. In 2006, the State Road Administration Region of the East is completing a pilot project on an 11 km long stretch in Stor-Elvdal to develop strategies for rehabilitating existing roads. The project is mentioned in the national transport plan 2002–2011. The arrangement includes measures on lateral terrain, width extension, driving control, etc. Reparation has been carried out on this section in 2005 and the project will be coordinated with coverage in 2006. For the winter season 2005–06, a revised winter maintenance scheme has been introduced for rv. 3 north of Rena, so-called winter road with active salting. Entrepreneurs are more able to use salt to make it easier to satisfy the friction requirements. The measure aims to improve road safety and shall be evaluated after the season. I also refer to my answer to Question 11, from the representative Nistad in Question Time on 11 January this year, and Question 13, from the representative of Bredvold in Question Time on 15 February this year, which was valid for the E6 in Oppland and Hedmark.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e1235	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It's okay that the Council of State refers to previous questions. The reason why we've had questions about both E6 and Rv in the past. 3, is that these are important roads, but they don't have the standard that the traffic volume suggests they should have. In the case of rv. 3, we've had the question up several times, actually under changing governments, and I'm glad that the Council of State mentioned the 11 km as something positive. This is due to the Progress Party, which was able to receive 20 million during the review process. kr to this road in Hedmark and 20 mill. kr to neighbouring county. And with the 20 million. So hedmark got 11 km with a better path. It got wider etc. In the case of rv. 3, picks around 90 pst. by the wagon trains to drive the Østerdalen in front of the Gudbrandsdalen. There's a reason for that. But when the road is not good enough, there are unfortunately accidents. That's what we have to do. Then it is not enough with increased controls, which are now being announced, but something has to be done about the road.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e1246	Of course, I agree with the assessments made by the representative Bredvold. We need to intensify the repair of many road sections, including rv. 3 in Hedmark. But then we have a planning system in the national transport plan and an action programme where not least the county is inside and prioritizing. I am well aware of the so-called lottery ticket with 2-4-6-16 that one has prioritised locally, and in my work, I choose – as far as possible – to follow the priorities as one does in the individual counties. As a result, the lack of local priorities is reflected in the decisions taken, which form the basis for the action programme in the national transport plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e1253	I thank the Council once again for the answer. Lottorekka 2-4-6-16 is, of course, at work, and it has to be further developed. It's about one thing, it's about making the road better – but my question is about winter maintenance. It is no surprise that winter comes, that it snows in winter, and that in winter it can be smooth. Then it's the necessary preparedness that's missing. I think those who are involved in winter maintenance are doing the best they can within the economic framework that you have. But the money doesn't go any further. You don't have the opportunity to move out and break when there's a need for it, because there's no money. There are also limitations on breaking, because it must be so and so many cm of snow that it should be allowed to break. So the question is, is the Council of State comfortable with the fact that there is too little money both for winter maintenance and road repair – in this case, etc. Three?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e1264	There are many elements that are relevant in relation to winter maintenance – it is subject to competition. What we have to consider, of course, is: are the elements of the offer release good enough? Is it properly controlled? As I also said in a previous answer today, we have to go in and see if we have sufficient control that the obligations that the contractor assumes will be met. So I have also said that we are now introducing a changed winter maintenance scheme on Rv. 3 to the north of Rena with active salinisation, and that we should evaluate that post-season measure to see if it should be expanded, and whether we can find other and better measures. Of course, this Council of State like any other Council of State wants to increase the scope of its territory, and there is no doubt that the needs are great both on the left. 3 and otherwise in the country to increase the framework of trade.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e1275	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘The Soria Moria policy platform states that the Government will launch an introduction programme for biofuels in line with EU Directive 2003/30/EC. This means that by 2010 the biofuel shall be 5,75 pst. of the turnover. How is the progress in the government’s work towards achieving this goal?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e1284	The previous government gave just before it went off, the SFT and the Road Directorate tasked to distribute closer to the relevant instrument to help bring biofuels into use in the market. This work shall be completed in these days. The government has wanted to wait for this to take place before we decide which instrument to use to increase the use of biofuels in Norway. We will come back to the question in connection with the submission of the 2007 State budget. Otherwise, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the EU's objectives for biofuels are ambitious and not binding. Individual Member States need to find a suitable level of ambition to adapt to their circumstances. It should also be for Norway. Which level of ambition we should choose will include. depend on the cost of using biofuels and on the potential for producing such fuels in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e1291	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I am fully aware of this report, which was due to be available on 1 February, but which has not yet arrived. In the election campaign, the centre party was especially high on the track. Stuttering representative Inger S. Enger says to the magazine Day and Time that it is ‘awareness-raising that the Government’ – i.e. Bondevik II – ‘will not introduce the EU Biofuels Directive from 2003’. When you go so high on the field in the election campaign, I actually expected you to have a clear escalation plan yourself, and at least you had a hurry to ask for that report. What concrete measures did the Centre Party think about when they went so high on the field in the election campaign? Will the Central Party in the Government address the marketing requirement for biodiesel and will the Minister for Transport do something about the tax exemption for bioethanol?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e1305	The centre party has had and has an ambition to increase the use of biofuels. That's what we're going to do; what we've done in opposition, we're working for it in position. Now, once the government has started a job - i.e. It was the previous government that did it, but we are now responsible – under the direction of the SFT and the Road Directorate, it will be quite foolish by the Government not to have it work on the table until we get started. One must expect that the time spent working on this has resulted in many good, concrete action options that we can use. That's what we're waiting for. It's not about passivity, it's just about rationality, and it's about waiting for a work that's in progress.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e1312	I thank the Council of State for the answer. Bondevik II also had an offensive commitment to research in the field of hydrogen and biofuels. Can the Council of State promise to continue and anything else will be able to increase this effort?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e1319	Within my area there is now a large investment in this area too, investing in hydrogen, biofuels and other alternatives, environmentally friendly forms of fuel. It's an area where the government is very busy, and we'll of course consider expanding when we're going to discuss the 2007 budget. But budget negotiations, as I am not aware, are taking place here, but in the Government, so we are getting back to when the budget is to be presented.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e1328	‘A recent report by the research organisation SINTEF claimed that strong renewal of the passenger car park in Norway can contribute significantly to the reduction of road traffic damage and deaths in Norway. We have one of Europe's older car parks and, at the same time, the second highest new car price in Europe. A newer and thereby safer fleet will also have a significant environmental impact through lower fuel consumption and lower emissions. What will the Council of State do to bring about a rapid renewal of the car park in Norway?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e1335	First of all, I want to say that this is undoubtedly a question that currently concerns the representatives of the Progress Party from Hordaland. The representative, Mr Hagesetter, has recently asked a question in writing, question No. 485, which is very similar in content to the question raised by the representative Sortevik. These are issues that come under the responsibility of several Councils, and the answer to this question is thus jointly developed by the Minister of Finance and me. The working group that assessed the car charges in 2003 indicated that, in addition to car charges, car charges may include: the taxes on motor vehicles, the use-free allowances, the wreckage arrangements and the periodic inspection of vehicles, known as EEA controls, affect the composition of the fleet. Other things that can affect the composition of the car park, such as: be the buset pattern. Since the representative Sortevik linked the relationship between older car fleets, high new car prices and damage and death in traffic, I assume that the link between the lower one-time fee and the lower accident costs is demanded. The research organisation SINTEF has assessed that 250 lives would be saved in 15 years if the replacement of the car park was forced by five years, cf. Article in Transport magazine No. 1 for February 2006. The assessment is based on a change in the so-called passive security, i.e. the reduction in the extent of damage caused in the event of a given collision. The calculations do not take into account the fact that road users can change running behaviour as a result of the fact that the car is safer. If safer cars lead to more careless running, the gain will be reduced. In general, a reduction in the single fee is expected to lead to a reduction in the age of the car park through an increase in the number of new cars. If the new cars are replaced for older cars, the average age of the car fleet will fall. However, there are reasons to believe that not all increases in the sales of new cars will be matched by a corresponding increase in the amount of rejected cars. So the total number of cars could increase. The negative effects of this on other things. queues, accident costs and environmental costs must also be included in the assessment of the impact of any reduction in the single entry fee. Such a one-sided reduction in the one-off charge can lead to more cars, more driving, fewer collective travel and less cycling. This is a development that this government considers to be of little disdain. It may also be that increasing car traffic offsets the improvement in passive safety in newer cars. A faster pace of replacement than today, as said by the research organisation SINTEF, is likely to lead to safer cars and more environmentally friendly cars. This suggests that the cars people buy are actually sure that the engine power will not increase significantly and that they will be run safely. In the same article, SINTEF also points to a number of actions that may affect execution behaviour in the future. These may be different mechanisms that intervene when the driver runs too fast, too close to the car ahead, etc. Such mechanisms will prevent increasing passive security in more uncertain conduct. I see that the relatively high entry fee in Norway can lead to more cars remaining longer. Nevertheless, the average age of the car park in Norway is not significantly higher than in Sweden — 10.2 years in Norway and 9.6 years in Sweden. As you know, Sweden does not have an entrance fee for the purchase of a car, so the cars are significantly cheaper than in Norway. This underlines that conditions other than the entrance fee are also important for the age of the car park. A possible explanation might be that in Norway, and in Sweden too, we have relatively large cars compared to some other European countries. Such cars seem to have a longer life span than typical small cars, without necessarily affecting safety. As noted in St. prp. No 1 Appendix No 1 for 2005-2006, the Government intends to submit proposals for the conversion of car taxes in a more environmentally friendly direction in the 2007 budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e1359	I thank the Council of State for the answer. As SINTEF presents its research results, it appears to provide for a faster replacement of the car park that the most effective measure that our authorities can take to reduce the number of fatal accidents and the number of serious accidents caused by road damage on Norwegian roads is clearly the most effective. What will the Council of State do to ensure that this dramatic reduction in the number of fatalities in traffic that she herself has mentioned – namely 250 lives saved if you can increase the rate of replacement – can actually become a reality?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e1368	Of course, in the work on the conversion of the charging system, which will be presented to the Storting in the 2007 budget, this report will be drawn up as a basic material. We also need to consider whether this is the best way to reduce the number of fatalities in traffic or whether there are other elements that need to be given greater emphasis. The objective is clearly clear: the zero vision is the guiding force for the work when it concerns the number of people killed and seriously injured in traffic, and then, of course, this is one important element to consider in that work. The vision, as I said, is zero killed.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e1373	I thank you again for the answer. It is the case that the National Road Safety Action Plan 2006-2009 has just been presented, and I have noticed that in a comment, the Council of State states that road accidents are a major social problem. However, one of the most effective measures to reduce injuries and accidents is not mentioned in the plan. The plan has 234 individual measures. There is no mention of safer cars, i.e. increasing the rate of replacement for cars and making sure that people actually get advice and the opportunity to buy new and safe cars and use them in traffic. Such an action is not included in the plan. What will the Council of State do to ensure that the Ministry of Finance is also a key player in this plan work together with the Vegvesen, the police, the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health and Safety Traffic?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e1380	As I pointed out in my main reply, there is no significantly higher average age at the car park in Norway, with our entrance fees, than it is in Sweden, which does not have an entrance fee. So we need to look at the relationship between reduced charges and renewal of the car park and fewer killers. What's the best way to get there? Of course, when it comes to the Ministry of Finance’s participation, almost all the measures you want to implement include the Ministry of Finance in some way, as the representative of Sortevik well knows. So the Ministry of Finance is included in a way, but I see the point of Sortevik that drawing up and rolling this type of plan must include the Ministry of Finance and their liability for the tax and tax system in a more explicit way, perhaps in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e1391	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘The mountain now experiences increasing collective use and needs at least as much reward as the other major cities, in order to maintain good progress towards more collective use. Will the Council review the award criteria for reward funds so that Bergen does not come out worse than, for example, Oslo, and that the positive trend in the number of collective trips in Bergen can be continued?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e1400	The guidelines for the reward scheme are designed in accordance with St.prp. No 1 for 2002-2003. The aim of the scheme is to stimulate better accessibility, environment and health in large cities. It does so by delimiting the growth of transport needs and increasing the number of collective trips at the expense of private car travel. All cities looking for funds from the 2006 reward scheme can happily refer to traffic growth in public transport. The guidelines suggest that cities that have achieved the best results and, at the same time, target measures for positive development should be rewarded for their efforts – contrary to a one-sided pro rata distribution, where all cities would receive an equal sum in terms of size, regardless of performance and effort. The reward scheme will be evaluated in 2007, including the guidelines. I do not see any basis for producing such an evaluation. The mountains are assessed in 2006 according to the criteria listed below, in the same way as the other municipalities. If Bergen adopts measures to increase the number of public travel and decrease in the number of private car journeys, and at the same time proposes measures for further positive development, the city will receive funding from the reward scheme in 2006 based on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e1409	I thank you for your answer. The council and I had the pleasure of contributing to a historic effort on public transport in Bergen with the decision here in Stortinget yesterday. They've really turned their backs on it to solve the city's challenges. Self-financing and financial contributions are very significant, to put it mildly. So in this picture, incentives are an important incentive for the city. I would like to raise my question a little bit: can the Council of State assure that this government will not change the criteria for allocation in such a way that municipalities that now dimension their collective effort from new appropriations are adversely affected?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e1418	The guidelines for the schemes state that the cities to be trusted should put in place measures that have a delineating effect on passenger car traffic. They shall show results in terms of stronger growth in the number of collective voyages than in the number of passenger car journeys and shall use the means to strengthen the competitiveness of the collective service. What we're going to do in 2007 is an evaluation of how the measures have worked according to these criteria. But for 2006, the funds are allocated according to the current criteria. If an evaluation in 2007 finds that there is a need to change the criteria, I cannot say anything until we have carried out the evaluation.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e1425	I thank you again for the answer. There's another relationship that also comes in here. The municipality of Bergen has received a number of additional costs associated with public transport, partly due to state initiatives and changes, e.g.: at framework conditions and increased fuel prices. This is not compensated in framework transfers from the country. I am therefore pleased to hear that the Council of State is emphasising the maintenance of results-based approaches. I also understand this in the response of the Council of State that she recognises the reward scheme put in place by the Co-operation Government as a good measure to increase collective travel in urban areas. I am a little more bold in my last question: will the Minister step up the financial framework of the scheme?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e1434	In the Soria Moria Declaration, there is an ambition to invest intensively in public transport, especially in and around the major cities. That's where we see the biggest challenges in terms of reducing car traffic. There is also a commitment to the reward scheme, which in my view is a good measure. It is important that one not only concentrates on the inner city centre, but also that one also sees the surrounding municipalities in context, because not least the outsourcing and outsourcing of the large cities leads to a great deal of queueing and thus a greater need for more collective travel. In the case of compensation for increased fuel prices and the like, the municipality of Bergen is in the same situation as other municipalities, whether urban or rural, and has to deal with it differently than through the reward scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e1445	I would like to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘On the visit of the Council of State to Rogaland, toll opponents were told to be ‘solidaric’ when the State extends the working time of Sokn toll station. On the other hand, the Council of State said in Karmøy: ‘It is difficult to force a toll solution that is not wanted locally!’ Local politicians are threatened with slowing down in the transport sector without tolls. In Rogaland the state covers only 20 pst. of road investments, the amount per The population is lowest in the country. Will the State take a greater share of road investment in Rogaland in the future?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e1454	For the treatment of St.meld. No 24 for 2003-2004, National Transport Plan 2006-2015, the Stortinget decided to increase the framework for investment on the main road network and other national road networks by DKK 9 billion over the 10-year period, broken down by DKK 4 billion for tribal roads and DKK 5 billion for other national roads. The size decided at the same time on the distribution between the main roads and the counties. In addition, €0.5 billion will be provided for infrastructure measures for public transport outside the country’s area of responsibility and DKK 1 billion for racial protection measures not allocated by Stortinget. In the Soria Moria Declaration, the government has followed up the Stortinget’s decision on the national transport plan. I want to work to ensure that the promises contained in the Soria Moria Declaration of Road Goals are followed up in the annual budgets. Toll financing for projects and other actions shall be based on a local wish for a faster implementation than the full funding of the State budget would allow. The high percentage of tolls in Rogaland is the result of requests from local authorities. I have to come back to the distribution of government funds on tribal roads and provinces at the next revision of the National Transport Plan, i.e. National transport plan for the period 2010-2019.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e1465	I thank the Council of State for the answer. Here it was very general and very little direct answer to my question. In Rogaland, we are proud to have a spirit of hard work that makes sure that a lot of good business projects are made and that makes sure that a lot of Rogaland business is well competitive with the outside world. But we see that in one of the most important areas to ensure a competitive business, namely transport and good infrastructure, Rogaland has not received much help from the central authorities. Now we experience that central authorities are taking advantage of this good spirit of effort to ensure that local residents, such as the Rogaland population, themselves have to take an increasing share of the costs. When Rogaland receives the minimum appropriations per year, Inhabitants in the country, it says a little about the situation. It is possible that the budgetary procedure will be carried out for the autumn, and it is possible that the next revision of the national transport plan is well ahead of time, but there is a need for some clarifications in principle: does the Council of State believe that at least a minimum proportion of transport investment should be made by the State in each Member State? So in Rogaland, the state only covers 20 pst.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e1474	The low proportion of government funds to Rogaland reflects what the representative just says is an enormous amount of effort in Rogaland and, far from it, in Hordaland. It is the two states that stand out when it comes to willingness to invest in transport and various toll-funded projects. In the 2069 action programme, the counties are worth 3 and 4 and 1/2 billion, while the other counties are actually at the very bottom of zero and upwards. Ergo is, of course, the percentage of government funds less in these states than in the states that do not in the same way as Rogaland is using toll projects to increase investment on the way. When it comes to purely state-owned funds in relation to other states, there are other states that are lower on the border than Rogaland does.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e1479	The Council of State opted for a batch programme to expand the infrastructure and to remove toll financing. We see that in Rogaland, tolls have even been introduced at the airport in order to be able to asphaltize there. That's what the Council of State said was unproblematic for her. I am totally opposed to toll financing to finance road projects. The state has $1,400 billion on the book. However, when the other parties first decide on this, they need to look at what they can do to ensure that toll financing projects are of the shortest duration possible. In the case of Rennfast, which we discussed a little bit yesterday in connection with Finnfast, almost half of the project's costs have gone to interest expenses. When the Council of State does not want to reduce the amount of toll, will the Council of State at least ensure that there can be no interest-free loans for toll projects, just as there are no interest-free loans to clean schools and church buildings today?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e1486	When it comes to the Progress Party's position on tolls, there is a huge difference between the municipalities where the Progress Party is in position and actually for tolls, such as in Oslo and Os, and places where they are not in position. But to the question. When the proportion of tolls goes to interest expenses, I agree with the representative that that part is too high, and I would like to have an assessment of whether a government loan scheme with an interest rate that is at least lower than that which can be achieved in the private market would facilitate toll companies' exchanges.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e1500	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Knowledge: ‘According to media surveys, the Ministry proposes structural changes that will lead to a 266-hour reduction in professional immersion in advanced levels for the programme areas of music, dance and drama. [[Vg1]] The changes could have major technical implications in terms of content, progress and target attainment for students. Will the Government review the proposed changes in order to maintain the potential for immersion of the students?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e1509	I'm happy to have this opportunity to correct the misunderstandings that have been created around content and professional and hourly distribution within the education program for music, dance and drama. First, a little bit about establishing the structure of secondary education in the Knowledge Lift. The structure of secondary education is complex and must take account of many cross-cutting considerations. It includes about 200 vocational training courses in addition to courses of study preparation with different possibilities of immersion. Therefore, the new structure has been explored in NOO 2003:16, in the first row. The proposals in the investigation and consultations on this form the basis of the proposals submitted to the Stortinget in St.meld. No 30 for 2003-2004, Culture for learning. During the examination of the communication, Stortinget concluded that there was to be a separate programme of education for music, dance and drama, and that the requirements for mathematics should be increased in order to gain general study competence. At the same time, the hours of individual training programmes and the distribution between hours spent in a common subject, a common programme and an optional programme subject were also fixed. For Vg1 in the programme of education for music, dance and drama, this meant 30 weeks in a common subject, divided into 25 hours in a common subject and five hours in a common programme subject. In addition, five weekly hours were proposed in the optional programme subject. It is Storting's treatment of the message that is the starting point for the curriculum work that is currently taking place, with a minor adjustment. Just to ensure even greater depression, it is now open for the students in music, dance and drama to use two hours of week to work with their own goals for motion-adapted music, dance and drama instead of the ordinary physical exercise. This means that two weekly hours of Vg1 have shifted from a common subject to a common programme subject with a content that is somewhat more adapted to the training programme than to the original one. Compared to today’s scheme, the Knowledge promise involves some minor changes to Vg1 for the education programme for music, dance and drama: The common subjects have increased by three weeks to 23 to give way to more mathematics.The common subject has been reduced, from four weeks to seven, to give way to mathematics and more depression.Optional programs, where the students are immersed in music, dance or drama, have increased by one week to five. As a result, the media releases to which the representative Lånke refers give a wrong picture of the work being done. The education program for music, dance and drama will have a content and a progression that will lead to the essentials of today's system, while increasing the requirement for mathematics. The programme will provide a good opportunity for professional immersion for students in the programme area they want, actually better than today at Vg1. The division of skills and hours is based on the main principles that have been addressed by the Stortinget, and we are now in the final phase of the curriculum work. Therefore, there is no need or time to make changes to this structure.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e1534	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I understand that he does not intend to listen to what professionals have pointed out in this context. It disappoints me a little bit. According to professionals, the essence is that the department has made changes overtime in the process of the professional plans, leading to a significant deterioration in the possibilities of immersion in the various fields of music, dance and drama. The consequence of the introduction of such a common programme subject for music, dance and drama is that the students in each of these three arts subjects will be much less well equipped in view of the further training course. Apparently, this has been done to ensure the possibility of doing line shifts, which is very few in experience. So instead, you're going to have a deterioration in the quality of your education. We get worse musicians, worse dancers and worse actors as a result of this. I am surprised that the Council of State and the Department here can come up with this on a collision course with an overall professional expertise, which has taken part in the process in three different plan groups, and which at least seemed to agree with the Ministry that it was in line with the Storting decision. Why does the Council of State not listen to these professionals?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e1543	We constantly listen to the professionals, and what we do is in line with what has always been the prerequisite for this. Music, dance and drama are one line, and that means you have to make sure that everyone has space within the same line. That means that we are now increasing the optional programme subject by one hour in relation to today's structure, from four to five. At our discretion, this is a significant strengthening, and we're adding to this very positive line's peculiarity. There's been a close dialogue all the way around this. The study offer now received is adapted to what the Stortinget has also adopted. But let me also be clear about it: The Storting has decided how the structure of high school should be. This means that the Ministry cannot change on its own initiative what has been a comprehensive process — extensive consultations and decisions in Stortinget. Let me also clarify that this has been adopted by the previous government. It was the one who made this big message with structure and trade union distribution and hour distribution. We have followed the mandate given by the Stortinget. We've been in good dialogue with the organizations, and we feel enough that much of the criticism that is now being raised is based on misunderstandings.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e1552	I thank you again for the answer, but I have to say that I am greatly surprised that it is possible to get into such a disaster in the 13th hour, in overtime. There was good contact and good cooperation with the professionals throughout the autumn, and this was in line with the Storting decision. So all of a sudden, in January, a grip is taken that leads to a significant deterioration in these three disciplines. It is stated in the big news that Council of State Djupedal referred to that Norway has a very good education in these three areas, perhaps even the best in the world, and it is also underlined by politicians and professionals in many contexts. So now you want to weaken this by doing this. I know that both the Council of State and the undersigned have struggled a little with young children over time, and that we have used too much good washing water. What I feel now is that not only have you used the washing water here, but you throw the baby out with the bath water. Isn't that what you do in this context? [[The President clubs.]] The question is: it is a good mountain sweat rule that says that there is no shame in turning around. Wouldn't it make sense to listen to the professionals?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e1561	Of course, we listen to professionals, and we have been in good dialogue with them. But it is the Storting that has determined the structure that is. We strengthen the depression in these optional program subjects from four to five weeks. It's a strengthening in relation to today's level. That means there's a strengthening of the peculiarity of this line. A lot of the question Loan now brings up is based on misunderstandings. There have been different signals over time, but from the Stortingets and our government, it has always been the same hour distribution that has grounded. The size has made some changes, including: a strengthening of mathematics. It was also the previous big thing that did, and of course we have loyally followed it up in the curriculum work. So the structure of music, dance and drama is the same as the structure of sports – there is no change in this. That means that the structure is the same. Every government must follow what the Great Government has decided. We could not establish our own structure on this once the Storting has adopted the structures that exist. That's why I'm probably surprised by the questioner, who thinks that the government on its own initiative should find a new structure for music, dance and drama, run counter to the process that has been going on, and run counter to the decision of the Storting and not least the wish of the previous government. I believe that we have had a good dialogue on this, and music, dance and drama will continue to be an exciting and good line for the creative study directions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e1576	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Knowledge: ‘The Soria Moria Declaration states that all students who have completed 13 years of schooling shall acquire general study competence. The Council of State, through subsequent opinions, has raised doubts as to whether this position is established. Does this mean that the Government is now accepting today's scheme of general study competence for applicants with a general professional background and admission after real competence assessment for applicants with a different background, and is the Soria Moria declaration shrunk as far as this point is concerned?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e1585	The government wants all those who have completed 13 years of initial training to be able to acquire general study competence, regardless of the study programme. The Soria Moria Declaration is based on our ambition that everyone who through schooling, professional experience or other real skills has real qualifications to study at universities and colleges will have access to study. Our main objective is to ensure that those who have completed professional training courses do not encounter unnecessary obstacles to their transition to higher education. At the same time, it is a fundamental condition that education must be based on the necessary professional prerequisites and that the candidate has the necessary qualifications for the study. Today’s legislation on access to higher education is a compromise between the consideration of the structure of secondary education, the general qualifications and the specified knowledge of the individual study. Students who are now required to choose a higher education study programme must comply with the main principles established by the Stortingen treatment linked to the Knowledge Lift. However, during the spring, we will submit to the consultation proposals on concrete provisions on how to define general study competence from the start of admission to higher education in 2009. The curricula and the professional and hourly distribution in secondary education are an important premise for the assessments on which this legislation is based. Internal work has been started in the Ministry to review the arrangements and legislation governing admission to higher education. This includes both general study competence and other ways of qualifying. As soon as this work is completed, it will be consulted so that different views and interests can be expressed. The final design of new legislation on admission to higher education will take place in the light of this work. Test schemes have been established for admission to engineering training on the basis of relevant vocational training in several higher education institutions. On the basis of the experience gained, and the evaluation reports requested by the Ministry, I would like to assess whether such schemes can be approved on a permanent basis. We also want to look at the possibility of extending such schemes with admissions on the basis of diplomas or other vocational training to relevant higher education studies in other disciplines. Whether and how this is to be done, we will decide after the consultation round. The starting point for the Government’s work on general study competence is the establishment of a system to make it easier for young people and other applicants for education to learn, to build on their competences and to ensure the possibility of re-election without unnecessary detours. At the same time, it is necessary to ensure that they are effectively qualified for study.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e1602	I hear the Minister of Knowledge says two things at the same time. You repeat the Soria Moria statement, and you're really saying that you have to make demands. I'm very clear about it, I think you should get quality in education, you also have to make demands. There is no disagreement that professional courses of study etc. can lead to a place in higher education, but then you actually have to meet the requirements. Norway talks a lot about the competence that will give Norway a competitive edge in the future, and then we will not avoid making those demands. From the answer given by the Minister of Knowledge, I don't quite understand why he can't just make it clear that it is the study's requirement for knowledge and competence that should be fundamental to entering and continuing a course of higher education. It really seems to me as a mystery that you can't just be ready for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e1607	We have a lot of experience with real skills in Norwegian higher education as time goes on. It's a uniquely positive experience. We now have many, especially adult women, who have had the opportunity to enter the pre-school or nursing profession, or, for that matter, other professions, with background as assistants or assistants. They do not then have formal study competence, but have proven to be qualified to go further, and have been of great value to many of our colleges, and not least many of our schools and kindergartens, which have received qualified, skilled, engaged and motivated employees. We want to build on the real-life experience. We also have the opportunity at various universities in Norway today to move on from a letter to the engineering study. In Telemark, this applies to electrical subjects, but it also applies to other subjects at other colleges. It is also positive that young people are motivated, have taken a letter and are able to show that they are qualified to move on, and experience shows that these students are strongly motivated. It's these experiences we're now passing on to see how we're going to create a system where we're giving young people new choices. We ask our young people to make choices very early in life, and that means that there must be occasion for: [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e1614	Yes, we ask enough young people to make choices early in life, but today's system also offers good opportunities to get back into a higher education course if you want to. I find that there is complete confusion about what is really going to happen, and that confusion is going to be there for a while, until the department gets to work through this. But I very much hope that the department will land on a solution where you actually have to make demands according to what the higher education institutions say, in order for people to complete the course of study they set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e1619	Politics is process, and the process we've now started, we've started because we want to create a system that's good, and that's well received by them. That means there's no confusion about this. The confusion does not exist in any other way than that we have started a process with the objective of the eye described in the Soria Moria statement, which is described by me today. Also on previous occasions here in the Questionnaire I have described how this process is. The fact that you have processes in higher education or in politics in general is the most common. One does not jump to a conclusion until it has been examined in consultation with those concerned. We're in this process, there's going to be a consultation process after this, and I'm sure that representatives from the Right and others will also be active in the pulpit to tell you that this is not going to work. But our starting point is that we want to give young people the opportunity to re-election if they're qualified, and if the studies are prepared for it. That's this opportunity we're now investigating, and we're going to come back to this at the admission to higher education next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e1628	‘The Council of State may explain the amount of the total appropriations for research and innovation under the State budget for 2006, including the provision for the Research and Innovation Fund, as set out in St.prp. No 1 Appendix No 1 for 2005-2006, compared to the corresponding amounts in the draft budget of the Government of Bondevik II of St.prp. No 1 for 2005-2006?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e1633	The 2006 State budget represents a nominal total growth in research funds of DKK 1.33 billion. This corresponds to a real growth of the entire 7 pst. in relation to the 2005 allocation. We made a few minor redeployments in relation to the Bondevik II government's draft budget. We increased the funds for environmentally friendly energy research, while the funds for nutrient research were somewhat reduced. The growth in research appropriations from the 2005 budget to the adopted budget for 2006 is the largest ever growth. I am pleased with that. It is difficult to compare a draft budget that was submitted after the last government had lost the election, a Bondevik government budget was not supposed to be adopted or negotiated in the Stortinget. With regard to the Research and Innovation Fund, capital increased by DKK 14 billion from 1 January 2006 to a total of DKK 50 billion. That'll give you about. 520 million. kr in increased returns for research purposes in 2007. The government did not choose to continue the Bondevik government’s proposal for an additional DKK 25 billion in increased fund capital in 2006. The decision will reduce fund return in 2007, but this will be returned to next year’s budget by the Government. The total growth of research funds of DKr 1.33 billion and the capital increase of DKr 14 billion to the Research and Innovation Fund mean that the research budget for 2006 was very good, and over DKr 1 billion better than the last budget adopted by the Bondevik Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e1646	I am pleased that the Council of State is now going back on what he said in the Questionnaire two weeks ago, when he thought that the government that is now sitting, ‘has provided the most ambitious budget for research that some government has ever done’. The Council of State now admits that there is some significant cut in nutrient research, and he also admits that the cut in the Research Fund of DKK 25 billion of the fund's capital means that there will be less money for research in 2006 and 2007. Research appropriations are always subject, because they are not at the top of the short-term political agenda, and they do not provide immediate benefits. The question is how to make optimum use of increased research resources. It requires predictability, it requires a long planning horizon, and the point of raising the fund capital of the Research Fund by 39 billion dollars was just to give it long-termity and predictability. The question now, when the cut is actually there, is how the Government will deal with such predictability, and how we can be sure that research will also have a good framework in 2007 and years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e1653	Our government has adopted the most ambitious budget that some government has adopted in the Stortinget. It's solid. The Bondevik government presented a proposal that was not dealt with in the Storting. It was a budget it did not know to be followed up, and if you look at the history of the Bondevik government related to research appropriations, you will see that it is very different. The last budget that was adopted was $1 billion lower, i.e. 0.3 million. kr in growth, and one will also see that it varied over the year. You will also see that the funding for the Research Fund has been very low, while in the last budget before you go off, and you know that you have to go off, you put in 39 billion kroner. So this fine we know well was a nice, but I'm glad that the Right and the former government parties are very concerned with research. The last year we can't say that that was the picture that was drawn by the previous government. But I am glad that we have now adopted a very ambitious budget. We must follow this up, but how this is followed up, of course, the representative Eriksen is well aware that he will be in the budgetary procedure. We have to get back to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e1658	It surprises me that a government council at such a long speed in Stortinget has not brought with it absolutely fundamental things about the field for which he is now the Council of State, namely research. During the previous four-year period, pure research appropriations for the higher education sector increased by 24 pst. There is no other period comparable to this period in terms of increase in research appropriations. I also react to how the Council of State is trying to dismiss a proposal for increased research appropriations, as finer and as unfine manoeuvres from a government that lost the election. The most important thing must be that there are funds for research, but what we see is that when Councillor Djupedal and his government had the opportunity to increase the research appropriations, they did not. They use approx. $8 billion more than the Bondevik government in the entire budget. Nevertheless, it was found necessary to cut the appropriations for research and innovation, as about the only field where it was cut from this government. Can the Council of State ensure that research will be pursued in the future, and not least explain how the plan for stepping up the Research Fund will now be followed up when the Fund is smaller?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e1665	We have transferred to the Research Fund what Stortinget has wanted, an escalating of 14 billion kroner. This means that the return to next year is as expected. What research appropriations will be like in our budget period must be returned to the ordinary budgetary procedure. The Soria Moria Declaration is very clear on our ambitions in the field of research, and research is one of the areas in which there should be less political conflict. I'm glad that the opposition at Stortinget is concerned with research and that we're going to succeed in our ambitious goals. Research is a central component of the development of our welfare country and not least of the development of value creation in Norway. So the combination of appropriations for the Research Fund and grants directly to universities and colleges and to the institute sector is important to achieve these ambitious objectives. Our government has ambitious goals, and I appreciate that the representative Eriksen will be part of this and want to support research in the future. I think that this field is one of the fields where you can go forward across the board politically, instead of pushing and chattering about things that in the big picture are not so central.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e1676	I shall ask the Minister for Knowledge the following questions: ‘Full kindergarten coverage and lower maximum cost require several thousand new pre-school teachers. The study ‘Pre-school teachers and professionals’ from 2000 shows that only a little over half of those who were educated as pre-school teachers in 1989 are working in kindergarten today. The new Kinderhagelova has an extended destination of contents that, together with the crew standards, helps to ensure the quality of the nursery. What will the Council of State do to improve the recruitment of qualified staff to kindergartens?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e1685	In recent years, 1 200–1400 pre-school teachers have been trained annually. The pre-school entry figures show an increase in 2005 to a total of 2,064. The figures have been around 1,900 in the last five years. The government has proposed 80 new study places for pre-school teacher training in the supplementaryproposal for 2006. It's also set at 20 million. DKr to decentralised study offers from 2006, such as: may attend decentralised and part-time pre-school teacher training. The situation today is to have qualified applicants rejected. Many applicants are admitted on the basis of real skills. Furthermore, the average age is relatively low among pre-school teachers, and retirement leave is still low. This also means that the need for compensation is relatively low. When I am not as concerned today as the representative Molvær Grimstad for the recruitment of pre-school teachers to kindergartens, it is on the basis of a forecast from the Statistical Central Bureau recently commissioned by the Ministry of Knowledge on the future need for pre-school teachers. In the light of figures for the fourth quarter of 2003, the Agency has made different assumptions about the need for pre-school teachers. Under all of the assumptions made in the SSB's forecasts, it seems that we will meet the need for pre-school teachers in the projection period up to 2015. This also applies when the objective of full childcare coverage is taken into account in 2007, admission rates to education, professional choice, age, departure, etc. Although one estimates that the demand for pre-school teachers outside kindergartens and schools will increase, the surplus of pre-school teachers may continue to rise to 6,000 between 2008 and 2015. This could be a useful reserve that could ensure the hourly reform. It has to be clarified that these are predictions and that there is therefore some uncertainty about the numbering material. It is also important to bear in mind that these forecasts apply on a national basis. We still have to assume that there will be local variations in the supply of labour. We see such local variations, among others. by the fact that 2000 people are currently working as directors or educators on dispensation because of the lack of pre-school teacher training. This problem is greatest in Oslo and Akershus. The new Kinderhagen Act imposes the following requirements on the professional director of the Kinderhagen: Barnehagen shall have an Executive Director who shall be trained as a pre-school teacher or other university education, which confers child-care and pedagogical competence. So it means that rulers no longer have to be a preschool teacher. At the same time, it is statutory for the nursery to have ‘sound educational and administrative management’. This means, therefore, that other three-year pedagogical education at higher education level with continuing education in kindergarten education qualifies for addition as a pedagogical leader in kindergarten. In 2006, an online continuing training offer is provided for other training groups that can meet the requirements of the Kindergarten Act with such continuing training. Recruitment of more men and minority speakers to kindergarten is also being undertaken. This will also have a positive impact on the recruitment of the kindergarten sector. In other words, we have already taken several measures to ensure qualified personnel for kindergartens. I will now bring these together and develop them further in a separate action plan. The Ministry is also currently working on a plan to increase the competence of kindergarten staff, to be implemented during the year. This is also important to ensure recruitment and good working conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e1700	I thank the Council of State for your answer. The government has said that it would like to create an action plan to increase the number of early school teachers. When building many new kindergartens, and at the same time seeing many in the profession disappear and announce that it is because of too low pay, does the Government want to draw up its own action plan to get more preschool teachers? How far has one come to work, and what will be the plan?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e1707	I am very pleased with the commitment shown in relation to pre-school teachers and kindergartens. It's a very positive commitment to the kindergarten sector, and for those who want to have a job there. We're training, as I said, between 1,200 and 1,400 every year, but it might not be enough if you see it in a micro-view. In a macro perspective, this is enough. The action plan will contain different elements to be covered by the Ministry. It is both about getting those who have pre-school teacher training back into the profession, and about caring for those who are trained as pre-school teachers so that they become in the profession. So it's especially important that we try to recruit more men, including minority-speaking men, to the kindergarten sector. We have good experience with that. Not least, we now see that Queen Mauds Minde has had great success recruiting men for pre-school teacher training, which is a very important part of this. We will come back with an action plan on this. The long-term projections of this are, as I said, good, but there may be great local variations, and we have to take that into account.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e1718	I thank you again for your reply from the Council of State. I think getting more men into the kindergarten sector is very important. In a study on pre-school teachers and professional choices from 2000 onwards, there are, among other things: and that only a little over half of those who were preschool teachers in 1989 are still working in kindergarten. 41 pst. had stopped and found something else to do, and when it came to the relationship between professional choice and pay, stated 93 pst. of those who had ended, that their wages were poor. SSB wage and salary statistics per year October 2004 shows that pre-school teachers are one of the most poorly paid professional groups with three-year higher education. Does the Council of State see that the issue of wages can be an important factor in keeping the preschool teachers? And what will the Council of State do with that?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e1727	I believe that the representative of Molvær Grimstad, with his long experience here in Stortinget, knows that it is not the department that determines pay neither for pre-school teachers nor for other public servants, and that, as the Council of State, one should be extremely careful to comment on these issues. These are handled by the social partners. That's how it has been, and that's how it will be. It means that it would be very untidy of me to give signals about this. So the question of wages and salaries is that of others who have the negotiating responsibility. We want to put forward a recruitment plan based on the tools we have. And the Ministry has many instruments in place to make pre-school teacher training attractive and to enable those taking the training to remain in the profession. I would also like to say that I have been a lot around kindergartens in my short time as the Council of State, and I am pleased with the great enthusiasm and the high quality that is in the kindergarten sector, and not least the great joy they feel by becoming part of the Ministry of Knowledge. It seems the nursery sector is very nice, and I am very happy that our government has succeeded.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e1741	I allow myself to ask this question to the Minister of Knowledge: «The Norwegian presence of research in New Ålesund is very central to important Norwegian and international climate research and monitoring in the northern regions. Investment in infrastructure and the organisation of research activities in the New Ålesund region has been considerable in recent years, yet the number of Norwegian research days has been reduced by about 10 %. 35 pst. since 2003. What will the Council of State do to increase the Norwegian research effort in New Ålesund, including at the Zeppelin Observatory?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e1750	I fully agree with the representative Dørum that the Norwegian research presence in New Ålesund is important, and as a research minister, I feel a special responsibility for exploiting the research infrastructure built up on Svalbard, including the New Ålesund. The infrastructure in New Ålesund is operated by Kings Bay AS. That is, they stand for buildings, electricity, roads, food serving, etc. Kings Bay AS is a state-owned company under the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade. Everyone who lives and conducts research in New Ålesund must pay rent to Kings Bay AS. With its Sverdrupstation, the Norwegian Polar Institute is the largest Norwegian research player in Ny-Ålesund. The Norwegian Polar Institute sorts and receives its basic allocation directly from the Ministry of the Environment. The Ministry of Knowledge allocates primary funding for research activities in New Zealand over the Norwegian Research Council's budget, but also over the institutions' basic budgets, including the University Centre of Svalbard, UNIS. The issue raised by the representative of Dørum thus falls within the responsibility of several government councils. The problem of the decline in the presence of Norwegian researchers at Svalbard and New Ålesund is known and also affected in St.meld. No 20 for 2004-2005, Will for Research, which was presented by my predecessors. One of the measures notified in the notification is: ‘The appropriations for Norwegian polar research shall be increased, in particular appropriations which may offset the additional costs of reserving research to Svalbard.’ This has been followed up by earmarking funds for the purpose of the Ministry of Knowledge’s allocation to the Norwegian Research Council for 2006. I propose to further support Norwegian research activity in the New Ålesund budget for 2007. The Research Council has coordinated this year's funding from the Ministry of Knowledge with a grant line that the Norwegian Polar Institute has had for a long time to support field research on Svalbard for main subject students and scholarships linked to Norwegian institutions. From 2006 onwards, through the allocation of the Ministry of Knowledge, it will also be possible for established researchers to seek funding for field research on Svalbard from this grant line. Applications based in New Ålesund will be prioritised. There are funds for a total of 1 million. kr for 2006. The number of applications received in 2006, a total of 62, shows a clear increase compared to 2005. Other factors that may contribute to increased Norwegian activity in the New Ålesund region are as follows: According to the Research Council, the Polar Institute has been granted a new four-year EU project in the New Ålesund for ‘Transnational infrastructure access’, which will provide funding for approx. 500 day work of researchers per day years in New Ålesund. The funds can be applied for by both Norwegian and foreign researchers. The International Polar Year 2007-2008 is expected to lead to a significant increase in research activity on Svalbard, including field activity in the New Ålesund. The University Centre of Svalbard, UNIS, increases its presence in New Ålesund. UNIS is a partner of the new Arctic Marine Laboratory, adds several of its field courses to New Ålesund and is now applying for admission to the New Ålesund Science Managers Committee. If you look at the statistics on the number of nights spent in New Ålesund, much of the decline in Norwegian presence may be linked to the decrease in the number of days spent by the State in New Ålesund. The chart now indicates that they will strengthen their presence in the New Ålesund again in 2006. A joint international research plan for New Ålesund is under the auspices of the Svalbard Science Forum, which will be a tool to further develop the site as an attractive research base for Norwegian and foreign researchers. I guess this helps to increase the number of Norwegians as well as international research days in New Ålesund in the future. But as I said, we will further support Norwegian research activities in Ny-Ålesund in 2007.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e1795	I thank the Council of State for a very thorough and committed response, which confirms what I had hoped for, namely that it would also be possible to maintain a dialogue between opposition and government, because this is part of the Northern Region policy. I have experienced in the past that it has been possible for the Minister of Foreign Affairs to deal with questions of forensic research in the northern regions. The Minister of Knowledge's reply now tells me that he takes responsibility as Minister of Knowledge, although I am aware that this belongs to different departments. The signals he describes directly to me, by the answer here in the main hall, I think is positive and promising. So I just want to say that when we bring it up here, it's not because we're running about voters, but because we're jointly trying to keep a focus on something that's important for the country and important for the general north-eastern strategy, important for research and important for climate research in particular. I will declare myself very satisfied with the answer given by the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e1804	I think it's nice that you can boast in the staging room. It's true that we have a common interest in strengthening polar research. The research station we have in New Ålesund is an important infrastructure in this. We will therefore increase our commitment and appropriations through our budgets, also because this is an important part of our North Sea effort. But there is also a lot of international, important climate research and arctic research carried out by our research laboratories at Svalbard, where New Ålesund is an important part of this. We will therefore move forward with this, in line with what the Great Government has said in the communication Will for Research, which was presented by the previous government, and we will come back to this in the annual budget appropriations for the future. I am pleased that in this field we can have a broad political consensus in the Stortinget. It's always a force. And research is one of those fields. Both in polar research and other research, there is a basis for a broad majority in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e1813	It is the case in Norwegian policy that there are some areas of conflict and there are some areas of Community construction. Everything with northern areas is an area of Community construction. Norway needs all the friends you can get in this area, and it also needs to be strengthened internally. I thought that with the background I have – I know both Svalbard and New Ålesund well – I could be a constructive co-player in relation to the involvement of the Council of State in this area. I have had no other opinion with this arrangement than that I asked for that reason. So what the Council of State can count on is that, with active, sympathetic interest, I will follow the further work in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e1820	I thank Dørum for both the question and the commitment and not least for the support of what the Government will do related to polar research. I'm going to attend a research symposium in New Ålesund tomorrow. For the first time, I'm going to New Ålesund myself and look at the research facility that's located there, and I'm going to talk to international and Norwegian researchers about this for us important field. I must say that I am very happy both personally and professionally. I therefore look forward to strengthening our research activity at Svalbard over these years, and not least in the New Ålesund.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e1831	This question, from the representative of Morten Høglund to the Minister for Labour and Inclusion, will be answered by the Minister for Health and Welfare on behalf of the Minister for Labour and Inclusion.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e1834	The question then goes to the Minister of Health: ‘The human rights situation in Iran is very difficult and has deteriorated since the presidential elections last year. It has recently emerged that Norwegian foreign authorities have decided to expel several Iranian women from Norway, women who are allegedly at risk of being attacked, tortured and killed on repatriation. Related to the brutal practice of the current Iranian regime, how will the Government ensure that women sent back to Iran can live in security for life and health?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e1843	I would like to begin by pointing out that the representative in question No. 377 for written answers have raised many of the same issues to the Minister of Labour and Inclusion, who in his reply of 26 January 2006 has clarified their assessments. In the reply, it was emphasised that Norway is bound by the United Nations Convention on Refugees, which implies that persons at risk of persecution, as defined in the Convention, are to be granted asylum in Norway. Norway is also, as the representative is well aware, bound by the European Convention on Human Rights and the Torture Convention, which prohibits torture and inhumane treatment. This means that persons at risk of such an infringement on return to their country of origin are to be granted protection and residence permits in Norway. As far as asylum seekers from Iran are concerned, I am aware that the human rights situation in Iran is difficult, and the Government stands united behind the statements made by Minister of Foreign Affairs Jonas Gahr Støre in the Question Time of the Stortinge on 9 November 2005, expressing concern about developments in relation to human rights and democracy in Iran. The Directorate and the Committee have good knowledge of the situation in Iran. Last year, an independent country information unit was established to obtain all relevant information on the conditions in ‘asyl-producing’ countries. As the representative is sure to know, Norway also has an ambulatory foreign attaché responsible for obtaining information on the general situation in Iran, as well as verifying concrete information on asylum matters. At an expert meeting of the European Commission in November, asylum practices for Iran were the main theme, and Norway took part in the meeting. The meeting showed that Norwegian non-resident authorities have good knowledge of the situation in Iran compared to other European countries. The meeting also showed that to the extent that Norwegian asylum practices for Iran differ from the other European countries, this is in the form of several residence permits in Norway. In the light of the above, I am confident that the assessments made by UDI and UNE will be based on good country knowledge and will be consistent with the international commitments of Norway. Several Iranian women receive asylum or other residence permits each year in Norway, and Iranian women at risk of persecution in Iran shall not be sent out of Norway. It's clear. I am also not familiar with examples of this having happened earlier. On the basis of this, I cannot see the need to implement specific measures in relation to UDI and UNE's assessment of these matters. However, as with other ‘asyl-producing’ countries, the Ministry of Labour and Inclusion follows the practice in relation to Iran. As the representative is sure to know, some of the Iranian women have submitted the rejections to the judicial system. The Ministry of Labour and Inclusion will follow the judgments of the courts in these cases, taking into account the importance this should have for future practice. In conclusion, I would like to inform you that, through the work of the new Foreign Law, the Ministry will consider the proposal in NOU 2004:20, New Foreign Law, to provide more complementary criteria for who is to be considered a refugee. In addition, it has been proposed that guidelines on the gender perspective of refugee law should be drawn up. This is also further assessed by the Ministry.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e1862	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. It is quite correct that I asked a written question that was answered on 26 January, and the answer goes into some of the same matters. But at that time I asked if a review of asylum practices would be carried out in relation to Iran. I got a negative answer to that. What is said in this written answer is that the human rights situation is difficult, but not all Iranian women have a need for protection. But here we are talking about women who have come to Norway, and several of them have converted to Christianity. It is clearly disputed by the Norwegian authorities. Regardless of whether it is disputed, they have positioned themselves in such a way that they will be exposed if they are returned. Several of the women now live in hiding and in fear of their own lives. Does the Council not see that this is a very difficult situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e1871	I have no problem realizing that some people feel that the situation is difficult. I have no reason to doubt it. However, it should be clear that to the extent that women — in this case — are at risk of being subjected to abuse and persecution if they are sent back, they should remain in the country. As I also said in my first answer, there are now cases before the court. It is clear that the Ministry of Labour and Inclusion will follow up on what the right will say, and will then assess the practice after that. And again, it's now working, as the representative knows, with a new foreign law, and it'll be natural to consider this in that context as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e1878	I thank you again for the answer. Work on a new foreign law can be positive, but will not necessarily help any of these women. From time to time, it has been stated that certain areas and certain countries are so difficult for the entire asylum group or for some that they are not being sent back. There are examples of this in the Balkans. I would like to mention another example: mulla Krekar – in a situation where he cannot be sent back. The situation in Iran is now such that the president who was elected last year has stated that he will stop Christianity in Iran. So there's an active work against religious minorities. What I then ask the Council of State and the Government to take with them is that the situation for this group in Norway in general is so difficult that we have to move in quickly and look at the policies against Iranian refugees.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e1887	There is no doubt that the situation in Iran is difficult for many. I ask for understanding, as I am not a specialist council in this area, that I cannot give too detailed answers to all the questions asked by the representative, but I take it back with me, of course. I just want to clarify again that to the extent that there is any danger of assault and persecution, the women should not be sent back. It has to be clear, but we are closely following developments further.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e1925	These questions have been postponed until the next question time.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e1932	This question, from the representative Hans Olav Syversen to the Minister of Culture and the Church, will be raised by the representative Aud Kvalbein.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e1935	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Culture: ‘If Holmenkollbaken is still to be an arena for international championships, a new ground must preferably be built. The Oslo Municipality estimates the cost of 310 million. kr and has calculated, in its calculations, that the country contributes 50 % according to cost sharing practices in the case of national plants. The government is now proposing to contribute 70 million. kr. or less than one quarter of the costs of a new jump hill, making it difficult for a potential ski World Cup in Oslo in 2011. It's $70 million. kr a final fixed amount from the State?’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e1944	State contributions to the construction and rehabilitation of sports facilities are normally financed through grants from the games. As you know, it is the profits of Norsk Tipping AS that determine the annual amounts for distribution for sports purposes. Since 2004, there has been no increase in Norwegian Tipping’s surplus, while the approved application amount for the development of sports facilities in municipalities has grown significantly. Furthermore, it is only in exceptional cases that funds are allocated to the State budget for this type of purpose. Now the government has decided to contribute $70 million. kr for the development of the Holmenkol plant in connection with the application by Oslo for the World Cup in Nordic branches in 2011. 50 million. kr is allocated from the games, which is the second largest single allocation of games to one sports facility. In addition, the Government proposes a Such a high amount has never previously been allocated to the State budget of one sports facility, when the OL of Lillehammer is excluded. Thus, the State’s contribution to support the necessary expansion to a World Cup in Oslo in 2011 is unusually high compared to the practice of State aid for investment in sports facilities. I am recording that the Municipality of Oslo has had expectations for a much higher state contribution, based on Holmenkollen's status as a national plant. In this context, it is important to stress that the National Facility Agreement between the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Churches and the Municipality of Oslo provides for ‘applications may be granted up to 50 % of the approved costs’. The agreement therefore signals the maximum grant rate and does not provide a basis for expectations that it will be triggered by any application. This is especially true when the development costs are in such a magnitude as is suggested by the Municipality of Oslo. It is very rare that even the largest civil engineering projects receive grants from the funds in excess of 20 to 30 million. kr. For example, at the previous World Cup in Nordic branches that was closed in Norway — World Cup in 1997 in Trondheim — it was. allocated 19.3 million. kr from the funds for the expansion of Granåsen. The Municipality of Oslo is informed that the State will contribute 70 million. kr for the development of the Holmenkol plant. The amount relates to the construction of the facility in order to organise the World Cup in the Nordic branches of Oslo in 2011. As I have explained, a state contribution in this order of magnitude is unusually high for this type of purpose. The government thus acknowledges Holmenkollen's status as the country's main and most famous ski resort, and puts its trust in the fact that the contribution will lead to the necessary upgrading of the plant and the continuation of Holmenkollen's proud traditions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e1967	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I am also aware that under the 1997 National Facility Grant Scheme, the State can contribute up to 50 pst. of the costs. However, this must be seen in relation to the April 2003 agreement between the Department, Oslo and the Norwegian Ski Federation. There, Holmenkollen was given the status of a national plant until 2013 to ensure a Ski World Cup here. The expenditure, then approx. Forty million. SEK, would be divided 50-50 between the department and the municipality. Expenditure has increased to 310 million. kr, and it is not the fault of the municipality or the state. But the government can quickly turn up money: $30 million. SEK for 100 metres of beach on Bygdøy and 23,5 million. kr for a test race in rally. Here is a major ski event in which Norway has experience and international reputation. How can the Government leave to a single municipality a bill of 250 million. kr – more likely – for a national performance project and move away from the intentions of the 2003 agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e1974	The batches that were government lots only a few months ago must be exposed to acute memory loss. In the last period we had a large expansion in Oslo in connection with Bislett. The final amount of the total development of Bislett as the main area of leisure is likely to be about 470 million. kr. The previous government thought that it was appropriate to contribute 50 million. kr for this extension. The government subsequently imposed a fine of 15 million. NOK 65 million in total. SEK to an installation of 470 million. kr. We're proposing $70 million. SEK to a project of 310 million. kr. Then I think it seems strange to be criticized by the parties that thought that 50 million. SEK was suitable for a project of 470 million. $70 million. kr is too small for a project of 310 million. kr.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e1979	I remind the Council of State that Bislett was not a national facility. State councils have said in the media that the state cannot go in with more money because it will go out on sports facilities, football courts, balloons, etc. for children and young people. If the Municipality of Oslo has to pay several hundred million kroner to facilitate an international ski event, this will go beyond sports facilities, football courts, ballbinger, etc. for children and young people in Oslo. Previously, this offer is worse in the capital than in many other places in the country. Does this Council of State worry, and does the Council of State think there is a fundamental difference between children and young people in Oslo and children and young people in the rest of the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e1986	I am a hot fan of spending money on sports facilities for children and young people. In fact, the Stortinget has ordered the Government to ensure that most of the games go to facilities for children and young people. The Holmenkollen can hardly be called a hopper tray for children and young people. One should be relatively grown to stand up on the top of the Holmenkollen. In the 2006 state budget, Oslo receives more than 300 million. kr more in transfers from the State than the previous government lots made. The extra cost of interest and deductions that make up the difference between what the Municipality of Oslo wants, and what we give them in grants to Holmenkollen, may amount to between 7 and 8 million. kr per year. So you have 294 million. kr left over in relation to what the previous government would offer Oslo, so I believe that if the Municipality of Oslo had planned to build up Holmenkollen under the previous government, one should certainly have a good chance to do the same now. The Holmenkollen means large incomes to the Municipality of Oslo. It's Norway's biggest tourist attraction. It should be Oslo's duty with the great state contribution to fix this.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e1999	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘I experience from several quarters that the treatment of applications for individual reimbursement of medicinal products by the social security system is not satisfactory and refers to the treatment of the notification of medicinal products, as stated. St.meld. No 18 for 2004-2005. How far has the Rikstrøgdeverket been in the process of reviewing the procedures of the individual application-based reimbursement scheme for medicinal products with a view to assessing measures that could increase the effectiveness of the procedure, including updating and developing guidelines for the discretionary exercise of the social security scheme?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e2008	In 2004, the number of applications for individual reimbursement of expenditure on medicinal products increased. The case-handling period also increased and was then 4.8 weeks on average. It was a difficult situation for both patients, doctors and social security. In September 2004, therefore, the Rikstrygde Agency launched a project to seek to solve these problems. The aim was to reduce the residues and to get faster procedures with good quality. The size granted, with which the representative is certainly aware, additional funds for the purpose. Several measures were launched by the Swedish Works Agency. This includes, inter alia: to increase the staffing of these matters. The guidelines were reviewed and posted on the Internet, so that it would be more visible to people. Case handlers have received better training and the quality of their work is now being better monitored. Doctors and users send their applications directly to a pharmaceutical agency in their country, not to the local social security office, so that they can be cuddled. The main results are: a significant reduction in the duration of proceedings – and I am very pleased that it was almost halved from 2004 to 2005 that the balances have been built down and now correspond to approximately 8 days of procedure for which higher quality has become available in the proceedings The growth in applications has not continued since 2004, and I feel that the social security system now has good control of the situation. The project was completed in 2005, but the Rikstrøgdeverket will follow up further to ensure that the process time does not increase again — and that is important. This will be a challenge because the NAV reform will also make major demands on the establishment. I therefore want to keep this in mind and work to ensure that the social security system can maintain these positive results in terms of treatment time.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e2029	I thank you for a good and positive response in relation to the fact that the Rikstrygdeverket's project has actually had a good effect on this. While this task was entrusted to the Rikstrøgdeverket to review the procedures of the social security system in the case of the proceedings, initiatives were also taken to transfer some medicinal products from individual reimbursement to a pre-authorised reimbursement. It was also a desire to simplify the system that was behind it. There is now a concern that this work will take time and that there is a bad progress. I therefore want to ask the Council of State if this work too is a priority, as the Social Committee asked in its position on this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e2036	I am not aware that there should be bad progress in this work. It is clear that it should go quickly, whether it is pre-approved or individual applications we are dealing with. But of course I'll check that out. I just repeat that we are still going to be aware that the processing time is as short as possible, for the benefit of the users, on all kinds of applications in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e2041	It's reassuring. My intention to raise this matter is just to make sure that you will keep an eye on this, and that it will go quickly, for there are actually some enquiries to the Storting about this. I also want to mention that many of the medicines that the health authorities are planning to transfer from Section 10a to Section 9, which I mentioned in my previous question, are medicines that can prevent hospitalisation and provide patients with a more stable course of disease. I want to make sure that also the human and social, and not only the purely financial costs, are taken into account in this assessment when transferring these medicines.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e2048	I can confirm that. Of course, it's primarily the assessment of what's good for people, who are leading why we do things – not the economy alone, in no way. It's clear that people need to be secured by the medicine that suits them. But some of the problem -- and I can't talk in general now, but in some areas -- has been that people have been given the wrong drugs. We have to make sure people get the right drugs. Then we have to have a system that makes it as simple as possible, and that the waiting time is as short as possible. That's what we're trying to follow up. With regard to the discussion about who should be within §§ 9 and 10, I believe that this is part of the annual rounds we have in Stortinget when we deal with the budget for each year. What we've done for the current year, we've joined the Stortinget. And then we'll see what happens in the future. It's an assessment of what's best for people who are the leading for what we do.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e2061	I would like to ask a question to the Minister for Health: ‘Unlewful university hospitals state that they reject 2,000 women who want to be born each year, due to: lack of capacity. Patients experience both an unjustified refusal to apply for a place of birth and a referral to other hospitals when the birth is in progress. The Patient Rights Act § 2-4 gives patients the right to choose a hospital. What will the Council of State do to ensure that the right to choose a place of birth becomes effective?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e2070	I would like to welcome a debate on how best to facilitate the provision of birthrights. I think we may have discussed that too little, also in this house. Of course, continuous maternity care is important for women, but it is also important for how young people get it on. It is also important for families in a vulnerable period. The decentralised and differentiated model of maternity care is, as the representative knows well, adopted by the Stortinget. Women with normal pregnancies and births in many places in the country have had offers at feeding rooms, in many places with very good results – in most cases, I would like to underline. Now the same differentiation between normal births and risk births is also underway in cities. The example of Ullevål University Hospital, with its own ABC unit for low-risk births, may suggest that this type of differentiation is also an attractive offer for the natives and their families, and I find that interesting. Patients’ right to choose a hospital also applies in the event of a pre-delivery. Patients shall be given equal priority irrespective of where they live. If, for reasons of capacity, the requested hospital cannot provide the birther with a proper offer at the time of birth, the patient must be provided with information on this in time, so that she can be offered a birth place in another hospital. This should be done in advance, not when the birth is almost in progress. The hospital’s information to the patient must be based on a concrete assessment of the capacity and number of patients already allocated birthplace during the period during which the patient is expected to be born. If a woman who has received such information has been made aware that she runs a risk of being referred to another hospital when she comes to give birth, yet will be on the waiting list at the hospital in question, of course the hospital cannot deny her. I would assume that most women who have received such information would prefer to be given birth places in another hospital with the expected capacity. The born person on a waiting list in a hospital does not have a right to be received at the hospital if the capacity situation when she is going to be born is such that the hospital cannot provide her with proper birth help. In such a case, the patient must be referred to a hospital with the capacity to provide adequate maternity care. One of the purposes of free hospital choice is to provide patients with a choice within the available offer in hospitals. Health East has explained to me that the provisions of the Patient Rights Act are followed by the allocation of feeding places at Ullevål University Hospital. Furthermore, it is reported that there will be work on challenges related to the large progress of Ullevål. It is planned to evaluate the reasons why this is so widespread as a basis for assessing the development of services in other hospitals in the area. Born in the Oslo area may choose between five hospitals in reasonable geographical proximity. I trust that Health East will develop the whole of this offer so that women's wishes can be met as much as possible. I will also follow this development in the future, and, if necessary, contribute to a process in terms of the practice and understanding of the Patient Rights Act in relation to the rights of the born.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e2089	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I am very pleased that the Minister of Health is also concerned with maternity care, and not least a differentiated maternity care. The Council of State says that Health East has stated that the provisions of the Patient Rights Act are followed when granting birthplace to Ullevål. I disagree. It is also in stark contrast to the statements of the director of Ullevål, who said to the evening post on the evening of 13 February that she deliberately intends to violate the legal right of pregnant women to choose a place of birth. When 2,000 born at Ullevål are rejected each year, there is a clear shortage of feeding places in the area — and a lack of differentiated feeding places. The Director of Health East claims that the Patient Rights Act is not suitable for birth and that it is not appropriate to dimension the offer at Ullevål to comply with pregnant women’s rights. I would like to know whether the Council shares Health East's view, that the Patient Rights Act can be set aside, and whether the Council shares my opinion, that something must be done about the capacity of the area.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e2102	I believe that we must facilitate as far as possible so that people can meet the wishes they have about where they will be born. But at the same time, the Patient Rights Act is designed so that if there is no room, in this case at Ullevål, which many more will than there is room for it, you have to accept the offer elsewhere in order to get proper birth aid, simply because the capacity is not large enough. I believe it is necessary, as I also said in my previous answer, to look at the overall food supply in this area, and why there are so many people who think that the ABC offer at Ullevål is so interesting. I have also noticed with interest that there are now two midwives planning to establish a maternity ward in the old Rikshospital, based on the same ABC model as at Ullevål. It is expected that they may at least take 300 births per year. I think that should be encouraged. I think you should go through that. That also Health East has informed me that they want to do. We're going to have to go through this. Health East does nothing wrong with what they do, but I wish we could fulfill more wishes than what we do per. today.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e2113	I am very pleased with the signals that the Health Minister here gives in relation to the first to ensure the choice of birthplace and that the birthplace will be accommodated if they want it, and secondly that there will be a differentiated offer. Because it is clear that women need differentiated maternity care – that's why we made those changes in 2001 also in relation to the treatment of the paper on emergency medicine, and made it possible – not only around the country, but perhaps not least in the big cities. That's what's now starting to work. I am pleased that the Council of State also mentions the offer made by these midwives in Oslo. I could imagine asking the Council of State if she can't be a driver towards Health East to get them to make an agreement with these midwives to establish a comprehensive maternity and maternity care, as the project is planned.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e2118	Well, I'm still in conversation with both the Health East and the other health care companies, and we agree that that project at the old Rikshospital, with the midwives who have taken that initiative, is very interesting and will be considered more closely with a view to trying to get to a settlement. That's what's in it, so there's no disagreement about it. I guess it'll also be interesting to see what happens when Ahus is done, and how many from this area that will also choose to be born there. So we'll look at the whole thing. But the representative and I do not disagree that we are going to do what we can to ensure a differentiated supply of good quality food, and that as far as possible we are going to make sure that one gets to choose what one wants. Unfortunately, we can't do it per. Today in every context, but we're going to try to get even better.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e2129	My question is: ‘How does the Government follow up the Norwegian-sponsored alcohol resolution in the WHO in 2005, and can Norway do more to ensure that Norwegian and Nordic interests in alcohol policy are safeguarded in this process, and how can Nordic cooperation in alcohol policy continue and develop internationally so as to strengthen the understanding of an effective alcohol policy?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e2134	The 58th World Health Assembly adopted a resolution in May 2005 on problems caused by the harmful use of alcohol. The resolution contains a number of operational points. Most of them are targeted at the WHO Secretariat. The WHO Director-General is expected to provide the basis for a new resolution text to the Health Assembly in 2007, including: different measures to reduce the damage will be reviewed and evaluated in relation to its effectiveness. Norway, in cooperation with the other Nordic countries, has for many years helped to attract more attention in the WHO on alcohol-related problems. It is particularly in the WHO Regional Committee for Europe that the issue has been given attention. In 2005, the Regional Committee adopted a separate framework for alcohol policy in Europe. In the autumn of 2004, Norway initiated Nordic cooperation on alcohol policy issues. During the Nordic Health and Social Ministers meeting in Copenhagen in October 2004, a Ministerial Declaration called for: ‘enhancing Nordic cooperation to reduce the breadth and depth of alcohol-related problems and injuries’. The Ministerial Declaration decided to work towards the emergence of alcohol as an independent resolution point at the Health Assembly in 2005. I would like to point to three aspects in particular as the basis for the Nordic initiative. First of all, alcohol represents a significant risk factor in relation to health – which the questioner is also extremely concerned about. According to the WHO own figures for 2000, alcohol-related deaths and disability account for 4 pst. of the total burden of the disease. Worldwide, alcohol causes about as much loss of health in terms of years of life as tobacco, and alcohol was the fifth most important of 26 risk factors examined. Secondly, the general internationalisation with increased travel activities, relocations, etc. reduces the impact of unilateral measures at national level. This means the need for increased international cooperation, both on the instruments employed and on the problems actually encountered. Thirdly, Nordic EU members have been weakened by their own charging policies as a result of EU entry rules, which have worried all Nordic EU members. This is not directly relevant to the WHO, but has contributed to increased interest in all Nordic capitals for cooperation in this area. The government will continue Nordic cooperation in the field of alcohol policy. There is ongoing contact at Nordic level with the preparations for the 2007 Health Assembly. In this context, contacts with Member States from other WHO regions will also be considered. It can be mentioned that, in the context of the development of Norwegian-French health cooperation, we have proposed from the Norwegian side that alcohol policy issues be introduced as one of the themes already in 2006. There is ongoing cooperation on alcohol-related problems at the level of officials in Europe. This applies both to the WHO region and to the EU. In the EU, this is linked to the Commission’s work on developing a so-called ‘Commission communication on alcohol policy’. Norway also participates in an expert committee in the Health and Social Partnership under the northern dimension of the EU. I would also like to stress that the Ministry of Health and Health, in close cooperation with the Directorate for Social and Health, is working on developing projects on alcohol and drug-related problems in new EU countries through the EEA financial instruments. The government emphasises active Norwegian participation in all these processes to ensure that Norwegian and Nordic interests are safeguarded, and that broader international strategies for reducing alcohol-related harm can be developed in the longer term.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e2161	I thank you for a thorough and good answer. What I'm afraid of is that what happens in the World Health Organization after the good resolution was adopted, among other things. The Norwegian government’s initiative in 2005 is that there are strong counter-lobbyists, i.e. strong forces from the alcohol industry, who are now working to slow down action and that a more comprehensive offensive is being launched. I know that the real plan of this resolution was to take action before the new General Assembly in 2007. If there is again a new resolution on action, I wonder if it has been relevant to provide project support to the World Health Organisation to take action and go beyond the resolution stage. There is a constant question of the availability of funds, the availability of resources, and the existence of countries on which they are located, allying with others to push through interventions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e2170	I fully agree with the representative, Mr Bøhler, that there are clearly counterpowers that do not want to follow the path we want. On the part of the Government, we are committed to getting measures that are as operational as possible. That's the whole goal. In this context, I take with me the input from the representative about any project support or other appropriate instruments, to see if it can also be a contribution. It'll be a little bit of a failure statement if one doesn't get any further. But international work is not done in a day or a night. It'll take time. There should at least be no doubt that in the government, on all the fronts where we can work on this, we are doing what we can to ensure that we gather as much detail about concrete measures as possible, so that we can do something about this – unfortunately, the big problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e2177	Despite the counter-repudiation, there is nevertheless a positive trend in international efforts to reduce alcohol use. What happens in the EU is that the minimum fees increased by 22 pst–23 pst. last summer and to present an alcohol policy strategy for the autumn. It is very important that this strategy be shaped by the Nordic initiative, by the Nordic positions on, for example, the Nordic initiative. the proposal to halve import quotas – which is, of course, part of the Nordic initiative. I wonder if the Government will take the initiative to launch a strong Nordic strategy in the final phase of the EU's work on its alcohol policy strategy, which comes to the harvest.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e2186	First of all, I just want to confirm that I fully agree that despite the fact that there are some counterpowers, a lot of positive happens. Many changes have occurred in a very short time. It is also essential that we do something to put Nordic leaders in what the EU is now doing, which is positive. The government is willing to insert the final question that is needed to try to contribute to the implementation of as many concrete measures as possible. We're going to follow that up.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e2197	I have the following questions for the Minister of Health and Welfare: ‘Norwegian patient registry numbers show that the average waiting time for children and young people in need of mental health protection services was 80 days in the third quarter of 2005, increasing compared to the previous year. I am aware that private actors want to establish new offers in the field of mental health protection. Does the Council of State believe that regional health businesses should purchase mental health services from private commercial operators, if they can contribute to a reduction in patient waiting time?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e2206	Let me first say that I fully agree with the representative's salary that the waiting time for outpatient treatment for children and young people in need of help in the psychiatry is far too long. It also varies between health regions. The last figures at the end of the third quarter of 2005 show that the waiting time for children and young people entering treatment was 87 days, which is eight days longer than one year ago. It's per. Today 3,639 children and adolescents waiting for treatment. This is 175 more than a year ago. The figures also show that the growth in the number of new referrals is now decreasing. 6 106 children and young people sought help in the third tertiary 2005, which is 6 pst. less than a year ago. The strong increase in the number of referrals made by children and young people in recent years is the main reason why waiting time is not reduced. The aim of health policy is to give the population equal access to important health services, irrespective of their place of residence and social conditions. The government therefore wants to strengthen the right to health care for children and young people with mental health problems and young drug users. These are vulnerable and vulnerable groups who have not always received a satisfactory offer in the specialist healthcare service. I will confirm and say as clearly as I can: Children and young people must be given priority. In order documents for 2006 for regional health companies, I have given clear signals that increased availability and shorter waiting times for the treatment of children and young people in specialist health services should be given priority. The duration of the assessment should not exceed 10 days. Good availability shall be ensured by extending the opening time at outpatient clinics and through outpatient teams. Health enterprises with a low coverage in the provision of services to children and young people need to review their services and take action to ensure that the objective of 5 pst. The provision of care for the paediatric population in the field of mental health protection is to be achieved by 2008. I have given clear guidance signals through the order documents and business meetings that the scope of agreements with private commercial operators should be limited, as the representative is familiar with. This happens as part of the follow-up to the Soria Moria Declaration. Public funds shall primarily be used to treat patients, not to provide profits to commercial operators. I do not know that there is a great deal going on among commercial actors to establish new offers in the field of mental health protection for children and young people. The best possible use shall be made of any available capacity of undertakings, including: through good work sharing in and between hospitals. This is the responsibility of regional health businesses. Following a change in the Patient Rights Act, the right to free choice of hospitals in the field of mental health protection for children and young people was introduced in 2004. The waiting time for outpatient treatment for children and young people in mental health protection is coming down, and I will follow that up. Therefore, in December 2005, I set up a working group to assess the acceptable waiting time for children and young people with mental illness and for young drug users under 23 years of age. The working group shall look at waiting time both for assessment and for processing and propose how a separate waiting guarantee can be designed and established. It must also propose good productivity targets. The working group is chaired by the Director of Psychiatry in the Vestfold healthcare company Stein-Are Agledal. It is broadly composed, with competence in medical disciplines, psychology, law, ethics, drug addiction and user competence. The deadline for the delivery of this work is set at 1 June 2006. I look forward to getting involved in what the working group will achieve. The aim is to make better use of mental health protection capacity in the public sector than we do today, so that children and young people receive faster treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e2221	I thank the Council of State for the answer. Health policy is a global paradox that the highest priority is often the most pressing. In somatic healthcare, private operators have long had a place as corrective and complementary to public health services, and private individuals have contributed to significantly reduced patient waiting times. For example, the waiting time for arthroscopy of the shoulder is two weeks at the private hospital Axess, while the waiting time for the same treatment is 16 weeks at Aarhus. Should not patients with mental health problems be given the same opportunity to choose private offerings, thus reducing waiting time, as patients who have suffered from shoulder injury? It can't be that it's the Soria Moria statement that is the overall authority in solving the health problems of users?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e2232	I have, on behalf of the Government, since we took over the government offices, worked what I can to ensure that those suffering from mental illness, and especially children and young people, will receive faster and better treatment. I also want to remind you that today it is such that within psychiatry it is treated on average 1.8 patients per. day(s) I think that is totally unacceptable. Everyone knows that treating people for mental disorders takes a lot of time, both there and then and in the length. But if we could just get each therapist to treat at least two patients every day on average, we would be able to treat between 3,000 and 4,000 more patients per. years. Then, in a slightly simplified picture, we would be able to terminate the queue that is now for children and young people, which is totally unacceptable. I have also been informed that the appropriations for psychiatry and care for Russo will have a higher growth than the appropriations for somatic care in our healthcare companies in the year we are now in. I would also say, private business is a supplement. It's not the main answer, either within this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e2243	I thank you once again for your answer. There is a company called Aleris, which also has a subsidiary named Aleris Ungplan, which operates comprehensive child protection services in Norway and Sweden. The group also has paediatric and juvenile psychiatric outpatient clinics. They have submitted a tender to the Swedish National Agency for the treatment of so-called time-limits, i.e. patients who have not received treatment within the normal time-limit. The manager of the company says that Aleris is ready to accept 100 children for outpatient treatment. This private operator also wants agreements with regional health companies for the treatment of patients who have not been subject to a time-limit. Per. Today, private contract specialists and psychologists are significant contributors to public health care. The total number of operating contracts is approximately 1 to 100, representing almost 10 pst. of the total number of years worked in the specialist health service. Does the Minister for Health think that more such agreements should be concluded in order to reduce the waiting time for children and young people in need of mental health protection?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e2252	I believe that we should do everything in our power to ensure that children and young people who need help in the field of psychiatry get it as quickly as possible, and of good quality. We're working on that. That's the lead. So within the public sphere, there are still possibilities, cf. lack of productivity in some areas, which means that there is more to go on – let me say it that way. The main response here, too, is to use the capacity of the public better. However, in addition to this, it is clear that there are also private actors in this area who are doing a good job and who are a useful supplement to help reduce waiting time. We haven't said we're going to zero out in terms of private, commercial actors, but we've said that the use should be reduced. The main objective — and I stress it — is to ensure that those in need of help and treatment, especially vulnerable children and young people, get it as soon as possible. Then we're going to have to use the tools we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e2263	‘This year, food surveillance may refuse to land a number of sites. The reason for this is the expectation of record predatory losses. The states that will be hit hardest are Hedmark, Nord-Trøndelag and Nordland. There are three months of pasturage, a solution must be found before that time. In the United Nations on 16 February, the Council of State states that ‘no grazing must be the last resort’ and that ‘the authorities and farmers must be taken over by taking measures that make grazing superfluous’. What measures will the Government take to avoid grazing?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e2270	For the treatment of St.meld. No 15 for 2003-2004, Rovvilt in Norwegian nature, Stortinget set national stock targets for the predatory game species. The size also assumed that viable farming activities will continue to be possible in areas of wild game. These objectives have also been pursued in the Soria Moria Declaration. In many areas, the loss of both sheep and domestic animals due to predatory game has been irresponsibly high over several years, with significant consequences both for the possibility of grazing and for the proper welfare of animals. However, the government’s objectives of both predatory game and grazing create challenges that could lead to animal welfare situations where the only possible way out of the grazing area is to remove the grazing animals. On the other hand, situations could also arise where the solution is to trap predatory game operating in priority pastures. This may be done by ordinary hunting or by injuring. In the Food Safety Authority’s guidance on how to monitor the welfare of animals in relation to predatory game injuries on grazing animals, the applicable principles for dealing with these conflicts are maintained. No policy changes have been made by the Food Safety Authority for the 2006 grazing season. The guide emphasises the local and regional nature of the preceding processes between the Food Authority, the environmental authorities and the animal owners before any decisions are taken. Most situations should be resolved in this process, so that decisions are not necessary. I think it is positive that supervision in this way breaks down principles and internal rules that contribute to vigilance, predictability and equal treatment with the users in relation to animal welfare for animals on the outback. However, grazing must be an absolute last resort to prevent extra large losses of sheep on the outback. In the Soria Moria Declaration, the Government has listed several measures to address this situation. This applies, inter alia, to: increased efforts on prevention measures, which have so far increased to 37 million. kr for 2006, increased emphasis on improved stock data for predatory game also through increased use of local knowledge and ensuring more efficient collection of pests in priority areas. Specific challenges are linked to effective withdrawal of yours. According to the statistics, the yew stands for half of the replaced losses of sheep, and it also does great damage to the domestic train. Licensing is the main means of extracting your material, but exceptional withdrawals such as hi-up and fallowing must also be considered in important grazing areas. The measures I have mentioned here, I see as clear prerequisites for obtaining the necessary legitimacy for predator management in general and for reducing the level of conflict between predators and grazing animals. I would also like to point out that there is now a great deal of work going on in the regional management plans under the auspices of the eight predatory wildlife students. Proposals have been consulted in several regions and important stakeholder involvement processes are taking place. I have great expectations that there are agreed solutions locally that provide the basis for a predatory game management that at the same time provides the necessary predictability and long-termity for forward-looking business based on natural resources.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e2287	Thanks for the answer. I think there's reason to be satisfied with parts of it, among other things. with regard to the last means of escape to be grazed. But that withdrawal of yours must be ‘estimated’, I don’t think to go far enough. We have a goal of 39 breeding yerv in Norway. We have a goal achievement of 125 pst. We also know that the Food Authority has a list of large parts of the areas where it is breeding yerv, and I can't help but see that it has to be an opening to actively enter and shoot more yerv. I hope that the Council of State can confirm his agreement. I find reason to point out that the Council of State also points out that this is not a policy change from the Food Safety Authority. I fully agree with that. The problem this year is that predatory loads are higher. There is no policy change from the Food Authority. It is a greater predatory load than ever, and the government must intervene.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e2296	I follow many of the comments made here by the representative Lien. I also said in my post that in individual areas we had some situations with predators that were not acceptable, and that such a set needs to be better aligned between adopted objectives and the reality that is out there. That's exactly why I listed some examples of what should be done. I also perceive that the representative Lien follows the thinking around it. With regard to your stock, I also agree that it is the problem of yours that is the most important thing in many areas. It is obvious that too many traders represent the biggest threat compared to being able to do business. In this way, I would like to highlight in particular the challenges faced by much of the Sami culture, the southern Sami environment, the trombone layer area and also the reindeer industry northwards as a result of this. So having a focus and a will to now have a stock adjustment of yours that is proportionate to the goals, I fully agree.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e2303	It's good to hear that from the pulpit in Stortinget we're confirmed that we're going to shoot more of you. I really appreciate that. However, there are some areas in Norway where the level of conflict is not acceptable. I believe that one of these areas is Elverum. A question from me on 8 February 2006 to the Minister for the Environment, to which I have received an answer, shows that she has stated that ‘the wolf has also not threatened public interests in such a way that killing can be allowed as a starting point’. I do not agree with that. I would like to think that the Council of State could comment on whether he believes that the wolf threatens the interests of Elverum, in the context of what is stated in the Soria Moria Declaration that ‘stocks should be able to be assessed on the basis of the impact on grazing, grazing animals and on the quality of life of people in predatory areas’. Then I want to remind you of something the State Council said to Telemark Avis in 2004: ‘Yes, we think the wolf should be in Sweden, because no one lives in the districts anyway.’ I fully agree with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e2317	I can repeat myself what I said instead of the general objectives of predatory policy. As for the situation in Elverum and the exchange of letters between the representative Lien and the Minister for the Environment, I don't think I'm going to go into it now. But I note that in the Elverum region, in the eastern part of Hedmark, we are in an area of great challenges as a result of the decisions taken by the Stortinget. That means that there is a lot of demands on the authorities to make sure that one here is able to have an administration that is good enough. Besides that, I don't think I from Stortinget's pulpit will now go in and assess neither the exchange of letters nor any other specific parts around this.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e2327	I have the following questions for the Minister for Fisheries and Coast: ‘There is a cross-political agreement that more goods should be carried by sea. The Soria Moria Declaration also states that the Government is working towards this goal. Nevertheless, the Council of State will not review fees and charges for maritime transport before the notification of the size of the national transport plan in 2008/2009. Does the Council of State consider that 3 years of treatment is a minimum for such a review, and what does the Council of State think the consequence for Norwegian ports is that a new tax regime is being withdrawn on time?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e2336	In the Soria Moria Declaration, the Government has notified an overall assessment of all fees and charges in the maritime transport sector. The aim is to balance the conditions of competition between inland transport and maritime transport. There are several different charges and charges imposed on maritime transport. The State fees shall contribute to the financing of the activities of the Coastal Works while the costs of ports shall be covered by port charges. These are collected by municipal airports and private operators. In addition, fees are charged to maritime administrations and ship registers, fuel and lubricating oil charges. In the area of the area of responsibility of the Coastal Agency, the assessment of fees is ongoing. Large parts of the activities of the Coastal Plant are financed by fees. There is a strong focus on improving the efficiency of fee-funded services in order to keep costs down. However, there are also other fees and charges relating to maritime transport that finance related activities and more general public expenditure. Furthermore, the overall charging and charging system shall meet many different requirements, such as the efficiency and distribution of revenues and the need for revenue to the State. It is also important to consider fees and charges for maritime transport in the context of a comprehensive transport policy. It is therefore natural that this should be done in the context of the rolling of the national transport plan. For information purposes, transport modes are in the process of producing basic material for the bulk notification. In the case of municipal port charges, the Port and Water Law draws up the framework for their determination. Questions related to port charges will therefore form part of the ongoing work on the revision of the port and water law.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e2347	I thank you for your answer. Does the Minister not see that some Norwegian ports, especially in South Norway, are at risk of being challenged due to Norwegian very high State fees, including the unloading fee? I want to draw the attention to St.meld. No 47 for 1998-1999, on the evaluation of the disbursement and unloading system, where it is established that the assumption of differentiated charges by tonnage size is contrary to the objective of being cost-oriented, since the costs of unloading by car are the same and independent of the size of the ship. I strongly support this. The distortion of competition we are seeing now means that we are going from having less efficient ships, and we are not going to be able to achieve the objectives of a total collapse, namely that more of the transport is going to be at sea than today. My question to the Council of State, as a follow-up, is: what will, as the Council of State sees it, a forward-looking charging system be?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e2360	I just want to make it clear that with regard to the review of the fees and charges related to the Coastal Plant area, we will not wait for that review to be submitted to the Stortinget. A review of the fees associated with the activities of the Coastal Plant is now under way, and once the Department has received that review, we will take a decision on changes. The questions related to the size of ships and gross tonnage will be part of that review. But I cannot conclude in those questions now, until we have that review of the Coastal Works.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e2367	Let me take an example for the Council of State on the unloading charge in particular, where a ro-ro ship with a gross tonnage of more than 32 000 tonnes at the rate in 2006 will pay more than 44 000 kroner per passenger. Calls or more than 2,2 million. kr when choosing the annual fee, while a loloship with the same cargo capacity will have a gross tonnage of 6 900 tonnes and will pay approximately 9500 kroner per. NOK 378 000 in the annual fee. Does the Council see that this charging system needs to be changed immediately in order to prevent distortions of competition from Norwegian ports, so that we do not see in the future a strengthening of the port of Gothenburg, especially at the expense of southern ports and ports of the east?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e2374	Let me just say that I notice the views of the representative of Skovholt Gitmark on this matter. The issues raised by the representative are some of the issues that will be addressed by the review — first to the Coastal Agency and then to the Department. Then we have to get back to the conclusions when we're done doing that review. And it won't take three years.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-01.ana.ud768e2379	This means that we have processed the complete map of the day.
