ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-14.ana.ud1633e59	The representatives of Henning Skomsvoll, Alf Ivar Samuelsen and Ingvild Vaggen Malvik, who has been licensed, have again taken the seat. An application for sick leave has been submitted by the Workers' Group to the representative Eirin Kristin Sund from 14 March until further notice. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The application shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The Vara representative, Unn Therese O. Sørensen, is invited to meet during the leave period.3. Unn Therese O. Sørensen is elected to the Lamentation for the time she meets the representative of Eirin Kristin Sund.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-14.ana.ud1633e91	Und Therese O. Sørensen is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-14.ana.ud1633e97	The President will propose the election of two presidents for the Storting meeting today – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Per Ove Width and Solvency Horne. – Other proposals are not available, and Per Ove Wideth and Solvency Horne are unanimously elected as presidents of the Stortinget meeting today.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-14.ana.ud1633e107	The representative of Arne Sortevik will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-14.ana.ud1633e110	On behalf of the representatives of Harald T. Nesvik, Vigdis Giltun, Jan-Henrik Fredriksen and myself, I have the pleasure of proposing additional appropriations to the sub-financed regional health companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-14.ana.ud1633e115	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-14.ana.ud1633e129	The Progress Party has put forward the following proposals, which are under discussion in the Grand Duchy today: ‘The Government asks the Government to make the necessary proposals to abolish the requirement of compulsory membership in student relations in order to obtain the right to take examinations at universities and higher education institutions.’ This is not the first time that the Progress Party has promoted this proposal in the Grand Duchy. Repeatedly, this proposal has been promoted by different representatives of the party in Stortinget, with different approaches and different arguments, of course. It's the same proposal, but in a new wrapping today. The consequences of the proposal will always be the same. The Progress Party wishes to eliminate the interaction. A broad majority, consisting of all parties on the Grand Duchy except the Advance Party, will not vote in favour of this proposal today. I will explain the majority's position in the case. I expect the Progress Party to want to explain its vision. In 1994 the Stortinget dealt with a major report on study finance. A majority of the Committee on Education and Training then stated that: in the form of a note: ‘The majority of the Committee, all with the exception of the Advance Party, refers to the fact that equal rights to education remain the primary objective of the training aid schemes. The objective of higher education for a wider range of the population requires that basic welfare needs be met.» In 1996, Stortinget dealt with the law on student relations. In that regard, all parties, except the Progress Party, considered that student relations ‘are an appropriate way of organising student welfare’. As with other public services, the model of interaction has shown that it works and that the holiday tax has been important. The size, all lots except the Advance Party, has previously also stated: ‘The majority agree with the Ministry that all students are obliged to pay holiday fees, including private individuals registered with individual institutions.’ I would also like to refer to Section 12 of the Student Cooperation Act, which states: «All students shall pay a holiday fee to the student relations. A student may not be obliged to pay a holiday fee to more than one student organisation for the same period of time. [[...]] The training institution concerned shall be responsible for levying the holiday fee as prescribed by the Ministry. [[...]] [[...]] The person who does not pay the holiday fee does not get access to the exam at the educational institution.The board determines the amount of the holiday fee. All decisions relating to the fixing and increase of the holiday fee shall be approved by the Ministry.’.» I would also like to show that cooperation is a legal entity of its own. The status of student relations is clarified by the Student Cooperation Act, which sees them as a separate legal entity with its own form of organisation. I want to refer to the Student Cooperation Act Section 7, which provides access for a minority in the board of directors to appeal board decisions to the department. This means that decisions taken, which are considered unlawful by a minority, will be open to appeal to the ministry. I would also like to stress that this board is democratically elected. In June 2005, the Ministry appointed an external working group to assess student relationships. This concluded, in the same way that the majority today and repeatedly stated in the past, that student cooperation is a good way to organise student welfare. The group has proposed some adjustments that they believe will improve the current system. The report has now been sent for consultation, with a deadline for consultation in April 2006. In the light of these consultation opinions, an assessment will consider changes in the law on student relations. It states that the majority have taken note of the fact that the Council of State, by letter of 8 February 2006, to the Committee, inter alia: says: ‘I see that the combination of compulsory holiday pay for student relations and the involvement of these organisations in controversial policy issues may also have unfortunate aspects.’ The majority ask the Government to come back to this when a case is submitted to the Stortinget about any changes to the Student Cooperation Act. It makes sense for a holiday tax to be used for welfare purposes at the individual place of study. There is money going to homes, kindergartens and other important welfare measures. The holiday fee for interaction has been and is an important contribution to equal rights and opportunities for education.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-14.ana.ud1633e182	At the time of the adoption of the student relations scheme, it was a prerequisite that student relations should carry out welfare work for the students, and that a holiday fee should be paid for that effort. The majority then chose to attach the right to take examinations at universities and colleges to membership in student co-operation. It appears that everyone, with the exception of the Progress Party, and in particular the rapporteur, believes that the proposal is an attack on the welfare of student partnerships. It's not. The Progress Party agrees that student relations are carrying out very important welfare work, and there is no need to attack it. However, there is a lack of logic in linking the payment of welfare benefits to the law. This issue was very updated when the student association in Trondheim decided to boycott Israeli goods earlier this year. As a result, several students were forced to pay money to an organisation, or an association, which had a political opinion that many thought was totally unacceptable. One of the students even chose to sign up for the exam, because he couldn't stand behind the boycott of Israeli goods. The law on student relationships is now quite clear that such interactions should not pursue policy activities but focus on welfare measures for students. As I see it, there is an overall political environment behind that interpretation and understanding. The challenge is that there are no feasible sanctions against the student relations that still go beyond the scope of the law. I am not very surprised at the scepticism of the rapporteur for the proposal. However, I am pleased that Council of State Djupedal has a significantly more active relationship with this issue. In letters of opinion to the Committee, he has announced that he has not consulted proposals for amendments to the Student Relations Act. We are so pleased that the Council of State will come back to the Storting with a conclusion after the hearings. We then expect the Council of State to have found a way of tightening up student relations in terms of this kind of political commitment. As pointed out earlier, the proposal is not an attack on the welfare work of student relations. We believe that the vast majority of students will still choose to be a member of the student association, but we think it should be possible to sign out without having the consequence that you cannot take the exam. For example, it is possible to establish a scheme where students who are not members of the student association pay an amount corresponding to the holiday fee directly to the university or college, so that there is no discount scheme for individual students, because that is not the intention either. When students are voluntary members, it will in itself intensify the activities of student relations, because they will face a threat of leaving many members if they move into or engage in political issues far beyond their own territory. This reinforced attitude is also believed to be positive in relation to the welfare work of student relations. From the vote, we see that there will not be a majority in favour of the proposals of the Progress Party at this stage, but the vote and the response of the Council of State give at least hope that the proposal has contributed to an important debate. In itself, student relationships are exacerbated. It is also an important contribution when the student relations are to post the law on student relationships for interpretation, because there is no room for adoption of boycotts, protests or anything else in the name of student relations that is not related to student welfare. Students have a number of other venues for that type of activity. In addition, it is our opinion that the Council of State has announced a new round of this on a later occasion. I assume that the Council of State will then be concrete in relation to this issue. Nevertheless, I would like to take up the proposal of the Advance Party in the vote, so that we can take a decision on the principle of voting today.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-14.ana.ud1633e203	The representative Anders Anundsen has taken up the proposal he referred to. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Footage, see page 1607]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-14.ana.ud1633e221	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footage, see page 1607]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-14.ana.ud1633e237	The first speaker is Mr Sandal, for the rapporteur on the matter, who has been granted a permit.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-14.ana.ud1633e240	Representatives Leirstein and Tybring-Gjedde from the Progress Party have proposed to amend the ethical guidelines of the State pension fund – abroad. The proposal deletes the sentence: ‘The Council shall advise negative filtration of one or more companies on the basis of the production of weapons which, in normal application, violate basic humanitarian principles.’;» The two proposers also propose that the new revised guidelines become retroactive so that the 16 companies withdrawn from the State pension fund – Foreign Investment Portfolio (SIP) will be reassessed. The pension fund's ethical guidelines are based on two main bases: firstly, to ensure future generations a reasonable share of the petroleum industry and, secondly, to ensure that the fund does not contribute to unethical acts or omissions, such as violations of humanitarian principles or human rights, gross corruption or serious environmental damage. This shall be dealt with through three instruments. It relates to ownership, negative filtration of the investment universe, and to the extraction of companies from the fund where there is an unacceptable risk of contributing to the violation of human rights in the event of torture, killing and similar serious violations of the individual's rights in war, serious environmental damage, gross corruption or other specific violations of fundamental ethical standards. Through the practice of these guidelines, the Ministry of Finance has withdrawn a total of 16 producers of defence equipment from the management portfolio. The proposers believe that since this includes technology companies that are among the largest and leading in defence equipment and civil aviation, and since the defence industry is highly complex, the Ministry of Finance decides on the extraction very arbitrarily and selectively. The majority of the Financial Committee, on the other hand, does not agree with the proposal of the two representatives of the Progress Party. The Ethical Guidelines were established in November 2004, and the growth of a co-consultant is in line with these guidelines. The recent proposal has been sent to the Ministry of Finance, and the Minister of Finance has given an assessment of the proposal. The Minister of Finance pointed out that the guidelines have been practised for a very short time and that there is a need for more experience before evaluating them. The majority of the financial committee has agreed to this view. According to the Guidelines, Section 4.4, an exclusion shall apply to a company involved in the production of ‘weapon which, when normally applied, violates basic humanitarian principles’. When the guidelines were presented to the Stortinget, it was clear that this formulation reflected a limited list of weapon types, which, in addition to serious weapons such as bio- and chemical weapons, also included nuclear and class weapons. So the extracts are directly related to the pre-work of the guidelines. All extracts have been made following the recommendations of the independent Ethics Council of the Pension Fund — Foreign Affairs. In my view, the Council has done a thorough job of identifying the 16 companies that have been withdrawn from the fund because they are involved in the production of class bombs and/or nuclear weapons. There is therefore little reason to believe that in the near future there will be many new features associated with the criterion of the production of such weapons. The Council shall, in accordance with the guidelines, have procedures to assess whether the basis for the exclusion of a company is still in place. On the basis of new information, the Ethics Council may advise the Ministry of Finance that a decision on exclusion may be lifted. Excerpts of companies are made to prevent the fund from being involved in the production or operation that is regarded as ethically irresponsible or unacceptable. Extracts do not mean that Norway regards the companies or countries in which they operate as unethical. I'm going to clarify this point. Norwegian authorities are actively working against the use of class weapons and to reduce the importance of nuclear weapons. Humanitarian law, which is one of several reference points for the guidelines, initially prohibits weapons that do not distinguish between military and civil objectives. One would like to claim that nuclear weapons are primarily for deterrence, not for use, but in any case it would be very difficult to distinguish between civil and military objectives. The fact that it is difficult for the state to act in the same way in all circumstances has long been an argument against the introduction of ethical guidelines. This is also discussed in the Graver Selection's report, on which the ethical guidelines are based. The Graver Selection’s view was that the requirement to behave equally in all fields of activity of the State should not prevent one from having ethical guidelines for the State pension fund — Foreign. There may be different ways of dealing in different areas. The role of the State as purchasers and concessionaires is more regulated by international rules and options may be less for consumers than for investors. It is natural to evaluate the guidelines after they have worked for some time. Based on the experience we have in the future, we should assess whether the guidelines work in accordance with our intention. As I said, the guidelines have only worked for a year, and there is a need for some more experience before we carry out an evaluation. On the basis of the assessments I have made, a broad majority of the financial committee has agreed that the Stortinget should not join the proposal of the two representatives of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-14.ana.ud1633e273	In Stortingen, there is one phenomenon in particular that I have attached to, namely, the ability of the other parties to vote against what they say they are in favour of, and for something they say they are against. In just a few months, we have had many examples. The Progress Party proposed an additional grant of NOK 1 000 for social assistance recipients during Christmas. Several parties expressed sympathy for the proposal, but that they would nevertheless vote against it. The Progress Party refused to change the name of the State Petroleum Fund to the State pension fund — Foreign, when the fund was not to have anything to do with pensions. Several parties shared our skepticism, but nevertheless voted in favour. The Progress Party proposed to cut off the contact and financial support to Hamas' terrorist organisation until they put down their weapons and accepted Israel's right to exist. Representatives from several parties shared the views of the Progress Party, but nevertheless voted against our proposal. The progress party went towards increasing the food tax. Several parties shared our vision, but nevertheless voted for an increase in the food tax. The Progress Party proposed to increase the depreciation rates for the machinery fleet in the business world. Several parties said they shared our vision, but nevertheless voted against it. That's how I could still have. Today we are dealing with a similar matter. The Progress Party proposes to revise the guidelines for the Staten pension fund – abroad, simply because they unduly affect some of the world’s leading technology companies in our closest allies, companies that operate seriously, in close cooperation with their authorities, and which are at the same time among the leading partners of Norwegian technology companies. Not enough of that, the current company is also the main supplier of material for the Norwegian defence, helping to secure the defence of Norway and to protect Norwegian soldiers on foreign missions. Let it be clear: the Progress Party is committed to having ethical guidelines for the State pension fund, as is also evident from the proposal under consideration here today. We do not want the Pension Fund to contribute to unethical acts or omissions, such as: violations of fundamental humanitarian principles, gross violations of human rights, gross corruption or serious environmental damage. What we are debating here today, however, is whether arms production carried out in the framework of international agreements should be considered as a violation of basic humanitarian principles, and more specifically whether the concept of ‘normal use’ is at all relevant in talking about nuclear weapons. In international security policy, the general acceptance that nuclear weapons are ‘weapons of last resort’ and that no military doctrine opens up the ‘normal’ use of such weapons. During the Cold War, Norway maintained its security through NATO's nuclear umbrella and the concept of mutual extinction, as well as putting Norway's ethical resistance to such weapons in a strange light today. Furthermore, it should be added that none of today’s nuclear weapons producers do so as part of an adopted business strategy, but that such production is imposed on the companies involved by the country’s governmental powers – this because the possession of such weapons is part of the respective countries’ defence strategy. So by labeling companies like Lockheed Martin, Northrop Grumman, Thales or British Aerospace as unethical, you actually put the same unethical stamp on the authorities of the United States, France and the United Kingdom. But there might be some intention in interpreting the guidelines? So let's think about the heart of this thing. The above companies and others allegedly produce components or subsystems in order to maintain the ability of our allies to produce and maintain nuclear weapons. These are tasks entrusted to these enterprises by their respective authorities, which ensure that the nuclear balance is maintained in line with the nuclear technology non-proliferation agreement. The decision taken today by the majority clearly states that Norway does not want to contribute to this process and that our oil money is not to be wasted on such production. To put it another way: Norway does not feel any responsibility for making this technology as good and safe as possible. We can be happy that Norway's financial significance is minimal in these issues, and that our allies have military doctrines where the international security balance does not depend on a small country's confused and narrow ethics understanding. However, Norway's position does not go unnoticed in London, Paris or Washington – or in the NATO headquarters in Brussels, for that matter. The question asked there is, of course, whether Norway’s isolation in these issues is a signal of less loyalty and cohesion, or whether there is only a set of customary double standards and double communication. It is remarkable that, throughout the Cold War, Norway loyally ended up in NATO's nuclear weapons doctrine, which most historians and military analysts believe contributed to the fall of communism, but that the Norwegian authorities today define the producers of the same nuclear weapons as unethical. It is not, in fact, as the rapporteur suggested, that there will not be many more companies that will be affected, precisely because in the defence industry there are cross-ownerships, there are a number of subcontractors, and there are several hundred companies that contribute somehow to the production of nuclear weapons. It's quite obvious in all parts of the defense industry. When it is claimed by the Ministry of Finance and the rapporteur that there will not be much more, it is because you are not willing to look or do not want to look. You can find a lot more companies that contribute to this, but I hope you stop looking, and that you'll be careful with the 16 that have been taken out so far. So back to the starting point. The Progress Party has also received signals that representatives and other parties share our views in advance of Storting's handling of this matter. Nevertheless, the parties are going up in order – I do not know if there are any more today – and are opposed to the proposal, and oppose the most necessary revision. Against such a hindrance, it is not surprising that the political bias in society is increasing, that very many feel that political commitment is incarcerated, and that in any case they are not heard in the political process. However, the Progress Party will continue to speak exactly their case. I bring up the proposal of the Advance Party, as it appears in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-14.ana.ud1633e307	The representative Christian Tybring-Gjedde has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-14.ana.ud1633e310	The right-hand side is the same as the majority in the right-hand position. The last speaker made a number of that many parties believe something, but he is in favour of something else when matters are dealt with in Stortinget. When it comes to this case, I think you should take a look at the story. The ethical guidelines are well over a year old. There are complex guidelines and complex practices. It was a unanimous big thing that went in for this at the time. I think it must be right to say that looking at this in a slightly longer time perspective than just one year will be the right thing. In addition, the independent Ethics Council of the Pension Fund – abroad, and I focus on the independent, can review the exclusions that exist at any time. I think that the rapporteur gave good arguments that what is the majority's main comment here, namely that you need more experience before evaluating, is the important thing. But the most important thing, perhaps, is that by going back on what the Big One said in a unanimous decision on basic humanitarian principles, there will perhaps be some uncertainty about whether it is the principles that should follow us in the assessments of these matters.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-14.ana.ud1633e319	It is good that the rapporteur made it clear that the way in which this is handled does not characterise these countries as unethical. This is what the rapporteur said. The danger is that in those countries where some of these holdings are located and belong, it may be perceived as such, but it remains to be seen. Now, in this position of the Financial Committee, the majority does not in many ways discuss the issues raised by the undersigned and the representative of Tybring-Gjedde. In many ways it is chosen to refer solely to what is the conclusion, including that of the Minister of Finance, that because these guidelines have been in place for only a little over a year, it is advisable to wait a little longer before an evaluation is carried out. It is funny to expect an evaluation when it is a fact that almost all the main defence producers are excluded from the guidelines in force. I also lack an argument in the Committee's position as to why one does not want to go into the debate. The reason why I took the floor was primarily the end of the letter addressed to the Committee of the Council of State, where one uses as argument: ‘It is natural to evaluate the guidelines after a period of time. Based on the experience gained in the future, it should be assessed whether the guidelines work in line with the intention. However, the guidelines have been in force for only one year and there is a need for some more experience before carrying out such an evaluation.’ Now the Council of State is present in the Chamber, and I think the Council of State has also signed up to the list of speakers. It could have been a good idea for Stortinget to clarify when considering such an evaluation – how long one will wait before one gets a clarification and a proper discussion about the questions we as proposers raise in the document. I hope the Council of State can come up with that during the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-14.ana.ud1633e333	I would like to join the post of the representative Sandal, whom I understand is the working case rapporteur on this matter. I do not have much to add at all, but after the representative Tybring-Gjedde's posts I have at least some comments to make on it. When the ethical guidelines were to be introduced, everyone was aware of the difficult balances that could or should not have to be made in relation to which companies you could or should invest in. It's nothing new. It's not the way you almost got the impression when you heard the representative Tybring-Gjedde, that you had a commitment to invest in company x or y. If you look at the entire investment strategy for the Pension Fund, it's based on some criteria, including: to be relatively careful about investing – we say – aggressively. It is fully possible to have a set of rules for a pension fund to invest, without that being a condemnation – and now I refer to the representative Tybring-Gjedde – of the governments of the countries where there are companies you choose not to invest in. I would like to ask Mr Tybring-Gjedde to substantiate the claim he made that in Rome, London, Paris, Washington and Brussels Norway is being looked down on because of the ethical guidelines we have in relation to investments relating to the Pension Fund. In conclusion, it is well-known tactic when one disagrees with the majority that it is often said that the majority's behaviour leads to increased political disdain. I am well of the opinion that what promotes political disdain is that political opponents too often use that word when you really disagree.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-14.ana.ud1633e345	I have noticed that all parties, apart from the parties of the proposers, want to return to the issues raised in this document No. the 8th proposal, when the Storting will review the experience with the ethical guidelines. The representative Leirstein asked me when it could be. It is true that these guidelines have been in place since November 2004. We need time to document experiences with that. The size has previously suggested that three years of working time will be a suitable period, and that is my starting point. The Committee does not take part in the real debate on the proposal that the Progress Party has promoted, and I will not drag the majority in the Stortinge than to say that that is precisely what you are not doing. However, I would like to add some arguments as to why these guidelines have been developed in this way, and why some dilemmas arise when one has ethical guidelines for the State pension fund – abroad. Firstly, the problem raised by the proposers is carefully examined in the Graver Committee setting. So the graver selection setting is based on the guidelines adopted by the Stortinge in retrospect. And they are careful that, of course, you can get into some dilemmas by having stronger ethical guidelines for the State pension fund – abroad than those like that. applies to the purchases by the State, as was the case with the representative Syversen. Secondly, as owners, we have a sovereign authority over which companies and what production we want to invest in, and what kind of companies we want us to get profits from into our pension fund. In many other situations, for example: in the case of public tenders and procurement, the same type of freedom does not exist. In this way, we can find ourselves in a situation where we have more ethical guidelines for the State pension fund – abroad than we have for some public procurement. That's right. The government believes that it is right and important that we use the oil fund now worth NOK 1 400 billion, which during this year becomes the world's largest pension fund, to set some ethical standards, even though we are not able in every other context to follow exactly the same standard. What has happened in the management of the State pension fund — Foreign — attracts international attention. We've now pulled ourselves out of a total of 16 companies, like either produced class bombs, land mines, or components of nuclear weapons. It is fully in line with the guidelines, which state that ‘weapon that violates basic humanitarian principles in normal application’ shall be excluded from the investment portfolio of the State pension fund — Foreign. Anyone with the slightest knowledge of, for example: Hiroshima – I myself have seen the memorials and the museum and what sufferings the use of nuclear weapons has caused people – must say that it is a weapon that ‘by its normal application violates basic humanitarian principles’. It was also very clear in the discussion about the ethical guidelines that nuclear, class and bio- and chemical weapons are among the weapons that we believe ‘by normal application violates basic humanitarian principles’, so there can be no surprise for anyone. I am proud of the ethical guidelines we have for the Norwegian pension fund. These are ethical guidelines that are followed by many other pension funds and that have a high international focus. I think maybe half of the enquiries I receive as a finance minister from foreign media are just about how we manage our oil fund and the discussion around the ethical guidelines. Then we have to assume that in between we are confronted with some paradoxes, because this is the ethics. It's not a calculation where we can put two lines below the answer, but my starting point for reviewing the experience with the ethical guidelines is to improve them and have a higher level of ambition. And then I think it is stimulating for the public debate that the Progress Party wants to go the other way. The party of progress also agreed, along with all the other parties in the Stortinget, that we should have ethical guidelines, and they could not have been unaware of the dilemmas we might face. While the Progress Party now wants to go the opposite way and re-evaluate all the excerpts – I expect that means that we will again invest in class bombs, land mines and businesses that produce components of nuclear weapons – I believe that we should rather go the other way, namely, look at how we can develop the ethical code to take new steps forward. I'm surprised by the way the Progress Party here has taken. We have a unique opportunity, and we have a very great responsibility given the size of the Norwegian pension fund to participate in setting standards and encouraging the production of what we want the world to have more, but at the same time we have to withdraw from companies that we believe are engaged in unethical production, because our future pensions should not be based on the production of either class bombs, landmines or nuclear weapons.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-14.ana.ud1633e366	SV belongs to the majority of the Committee which has examined this proposal and has now rejected its examination. On my own account, I also want to add some things. I've had it, you might say, mixed joy to hear the representative Christian Tybring-Gjedde argue harshly for why it's important for the Norwegian people to make money on nuclear weapons production. There's a reason why there's a non-proliferation agreement, it's not random, and it's because we've seen the way the atomic bomb has worked in the world. It has had totally inhuman consequences for generations after generations. This is a type of weapon that we're not interested in. We've tried to do a job internationally and contribute the way we can to make sure you're moving in the opposite direction. Instead of contributing to the production and development of new types of nuclear technology, we should do the opposite: work for further disarmament. Then it is very special that the Progress Party, which was the only party here on the Stortinget that was willing to go to war against a country that supposedly developed this type of weapon – i.e. Iraq – because it was so keen to prevent the proliferation of this weapon, is now interested that the Norwegian people should instead invest their money in producing it. The world sees the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction as a destabilising element today. We should work to support the processes that exist in the world to stop the production of nuclear weapons and weapons of mass destruction. This is also a work that has continued through our work against class bombs and landmines internationally. I believe that this debate is a debate of which the Norwegian people enjoy hearing more in the years to come. If it is the case that the Progress Party will work for the Norwegian people's money to be used for investment in class bombs, land mines and nuclear weapons, I look forward to this debate further in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-14.ana.ud1633e379	Here was a lot to comment on. I must honestly admit that there is a lot of ignorance in this room about these questions. I'm sorry to have to say that. First to the state council talking about land mines and class bombs. So that is not what we are discussing today, we are discussing nuclear weapons. Land mines and class bombs include: prohibited by the Ottawa Convention and other Conventions, so that the fight against land mines and class bombs is internationally recognised. So there's no discussion about it, we're discussing nuclear weapons. To the representative of Holmås: within the non-proliferation agreement, it is accepted that the nuclear powers that have nuclear weapons today have it, but we must prevent it from spreading to Iraq, Iran, North Korea, etc. So it's not about China, it's not about Israel, it's not about the United States, it's not about the United Kingdom, it's not about France, etc. This is what the non-proliferation agreement on nuclear technology is all about. Now we are saying that we should not help to maintain nuclear technology in those countries that are guaranteed by international agreements. Then to the representative Syversen, who thought that everyone was aware of this when we adopted these ethical guidelines. Yes, we were aware of what the text of the ethical guidelines said, but we actually didn't know the interpretation of them. The consequence of the interpretation has been that 16 of the leading defence companies and, in fact, civil aviation companies have now been excluded. That's the consequence of that. We know that today. So these are companies that are proud of their country. Lockheed Martin, with hundreds of thousands of employees in the United States, is the United States' leading technology company. The same is true of Thales in France, and the same is true of British Aerospace in the United Kingdom. We're now saying that these are engaged in unethical production. It's not like they're sitting in the control rooms and deciding that today I think we're going to bet on nuclear weapons. It's not like there's any men inside a dark governance room saying, "Yes, we're betting on nuclear weapons now, because there's a lot of money to earn." They are mandated by the authorities of the countries to produce nuclear weapons and components of nuclear weapons. So they can't say no. Even if they wanted to get out of it, they can't get out of it. That is why I and the Progress Party also say that decisions taken by the governments of the countries are unethical. Of course, you do this when companies don't have the ability to say no to produce. This is for the representative of the Syversen. And then it's interesting that the French company Thales is excluded – Thales, who also has a business in Norway, on the Desert in Oslo, with 200 employees. They produce high technology, contribute to Norwegian business and contribute to tax revenue to the Norwegian country. While we welcome them and buy a lot of weapons from them, we still say that the company produces unethical. I don't think so.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-14.ana.ud1633e393	We are told that the Progress Party was not aware of the contradictions that could lie in the guidelines adopted unanimously, but also the representative Tybring-Gjedde must be aware that the Graver Committee was involved in exactly the ethical dilemmas that this represents. I quote from that report, as it is in the attachment to the setting: ‘The requirement to behave in a uniform manner within the scope of all Member States should not prevent the existence of ethical guidelines for the Pension Fund – Foreign.’.» [[...]] I don't think that's going to take so much imagination to realize that, for example. investment in companies engaged in the arms industry would come under exactly that quotation. But that's it. I am more concerned about them, I would say, positive signals given by the Minister of Finance. She stated that she wanted to further develop the ethical guidelines of the fund. And in that, the Minister of Finance must know that she has the full support of the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-14.ana.ud1633e405	I take the word because I had expected a slightly clearer answer when Christian Tybring-Gjedde took the word instead. So we are internationally committed to limiting the use and detaching of nuclear weapons. But it is also true that some of the companies that the Progress Party is moving forward are involved in projects and programmes to develop less tactical nuclear weapons precisely to update the use of this type of weapon in conventional wars, among other things. through the development of a type of bunkerBuster and that type of thing. We manage the Norwegian people's big oil fund, the Pension Fund, and we're in the position that we can choose what to invest this money in. Then we say from the majority that we don't want to make money on developing and updating the use of nuclear weapons and further developing it, because we're going to build up the nuclear industry, we want to reduce the proliferation of nuclear weapons. My question to the Progress Party will then be: is it so that the Progress Party believes it is important that we invest money in nuclear projects and programmes for the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-14.ana.ud1633e412	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Footage, see page 1607]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-14.ana.ud1633e428	At the request of the Economic and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and that it be allocated up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines after the intervention of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is proposed that those who sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-14.ana.ud1633e437	This matter concerns the location and organisation of two different funds. One is the Investment Fund for North-West Russia, and the other is the Investment Fund for Eastern Europe. These funds have the following tasks and objectives: The Investment Fund for North-West Russia was created in 1996, as a result of the conversions that were then in the business community in the municipality of South-Varanger. The second, the Investment Fund for Eastern Europe, was created in 1997. The Fund was originally intended to cover the need for State involvement in investments in large parts of Russia and Central and Eastern Europe. When it comes to the administration of these funds, they are currently administered from the head office of Innovation Norway in Oslo, and so it has been since the funds were established. Of course, it is relevant to ask whether this is a sensible way to organise and manage these funds, as the proposers do. I would like to point out that the proposal by the representatives of Fredriksen and Korsberg is twofold. First, they ask the Government to assign the administration of the Investment Fund for North-West Russia to Kirkenes, and second, they want to distribute 75 pst. by the Investment Fund for Eastern Europe for the Investment Fund and the North-West Russia Subsidy Fund. In the case of the Investment Fund for North-West Russia, it is important to note that Innovation Norway cooperates closely with its district office in North Norway and will strengthen the administration of Finnmark with a new position. In addition, a new position will be created at the Murmansk Consulate General, to be financed by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. This position shall be one of its tasks to provide financial advice to Norwegian enterprises wishing to establish themselves in North-West Russia. In other words, the position will be part of Innovation Norway's outdoor apparatus. This means that most of the proceedings are done up there locally, while the administration of the Church then can alter the competences of Innovation Norway. In other words, we get a great and broad competence centrally, plus that the practical casework will be done locally. For my part, I have no doubt that the business community is best off with such an organisation. I think there's a bit of an amazing argument from the Propulsion Party proposal providers. They refer to a meeting between the Progress Party's fraction and the business community on 13 January of this year, using the media as a truth witness in the matter and referring to a look-up in both the newspaper Finnmarken and South Varanger Avis. I think there's a little bit of a strange use of the source material. That's not our way of working things out. We stick to the state council as the only party that the committee knows. My claim is that today's organisation, with the changes that have been announced, will be an effective and good administration of the funds even in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-14.ana.ud1633e456	We are aware that we have got something through this proposal, and it is quite right that a position will be created through Innovation Norway in Murmansk and a municipality in South Varanger linked to the Barents Secretariat. But, as I said earlier, this fund was established in 1996 to maintain and strengthen South Varanger as a national bridgehead towards North-West Russia. The Fund has been managed and managed by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and through it by Innovation Norway. Unfortunately, this fund has not been in use for almost ten years. The fund's size, which once amounted to 150 million. kr, is today at 180 million. kr. In addition, there is a smaller grant fund of 30 million. kr, where today it stands 8.8 million. kr back. So if you strongly claim that the management of Oslo has been a success in strengthening the South Varanger municipality as a national bridgehead in terms of a bet on North-West Russia, when we know that the fund has been used only a handful of times, in many ways it becomes a little pointless. Geography is numerous, and geography is always dependent on its own position. It is clear – and it is not strange either – that from Oslo it was natural that it was formerly Baltic and St. Petersburg, which were an important field of activity. For Copenhagen, North-West Russia is just the Baltic and St. Petersburg, and it is also in many ways for Stockholm. But for a relatively low-capital business in North Norway, in fact north-west Russia is a completely different area. It's Murmansk, Arkhangelsk oblast, it's the Republic of Karelia, and it's the autonomous region of Nenets, which is initially our thinking connected to North-West Russia. Thus, the decision of the big business at that time was to strengthen South Varanger as a defined national bridgehead and bet area towards North-West Russia. Everyone sees that this has not been followed up. And then the question is, how are we going to change this in practice so that it works better than it has done? The best model is, in fact, according to the views of the Progress Party, according to the business life of Finnmark, according to the views of Troms- and Finnmark Chamber of Commerce, and according to everything that can creep and go of both economic and political interests both in Finnmark and in the municipality of South Varanger, to move the entire administration of the fund where the ringing effects will be greatest, and to the area that has the greatest competence and understanding with regard to North-West Russia, namely the area appointed by Minister of Foreign Affairs Gahr Støre, appointed and declared as a national bridgehead with North-West Russia: Sør-Varanger and Kirkenes. At a time when the government retortically believes that the North Region bet is the most important national bet, one does not follow up with practical policies. If the oil and gas options in the Barents Sea on both sides of the border and all other bets towards North-West Russia are not good enough reasons to move the management of the fund from Oslo to the Churches, this becomes an incredible pinglet of the Government. The fact that the government wants to bet on the north areas, in many ways becomes a hollow rhetorical thing that soon no one wants to lend a ear to. Locally, all of this support moving. In the Soria Moria Declaration, the Government says: ‘The Government assumes that the Government involves a system of governance with influence for the many and the spread of power, capital and property. A living and decentralised democracy...» In addition, they say: ‘Localisation of State, regional and municipal jobs should be actively used to provide local communities and regions with new development resources in the form of jobs, competences and a wider professional environment.’ Is this being followed up here? I can't see it being followed up, on the contrary, the power lies where it has been – in Oslo. In doing so, I take up the proposal of the Progress Party and the minority to add the administration of the North-West Russia Fund to Kirkenes.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-14.ana.ud1633e486	The representative Jan-Henrik Fredriksen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-14.ana.ud1633e489	It's a pretty interesting thing we have to deal with today. It illustrates in many ways that the world is changing continuously. I think it is also in the light that we must see this proposal, which is promoted by the Progress Party, and which in many ways has a lot of positive effects. I believe that the entire Storting will stand to see the management of all these funds in a new light, that the North-West Russia fund in its time, in 1996, was established as a result of the problems that were then in the South-Varanger region, and that the problems that were then faced with a one-sided enterprise no longer exist. Similarly, the East European Fund, which was established the following year, needs to be looked at in a completely different light. Today, of course, most countries in Central and Eastern Europe are members of the European Community. Both through and through the EEA Agreement, there are solid opportunities for mutual Norwegian and Central and Eastern European cooperation through the large funds existing on that side. I believe that in many ways there will be a need for a new review of how to have these funds operational, and I think the time has come for the department to carry out such a review, also in the light of the very positive follow-up that the new government has of last year's submitted North Sea Report. That is why I take up the two proposals that the Christian People's Party, Left and Right have promoted in the matter. But given what I think is the whole of Storting's will to develop the northern regions and not least the South Varanger region, it will not be entirely decisive if four positions are moved from Oslo to the Kirkenes. That is not what will determine whether there will be success or failure for the development of the northern regions. However, Innovation Norway has spread its branch offices around the country, just to have closeness and to build up skills in the field of business development. And the need that is actually most close to the northern regions in 2006 is the need to develop cooperation between Norway and Russia – and then we are talking about North-West Russia. The three parties Right, Christian People's Party and Left primarily do not want proposal No. 1 down. I would like to ask the Council of State whether he is willing to carry out a review and an assessment of the administration and location of the funds, whether he agrees that there is a need and the most sensible way of looking at this in a new light, also with the background of the North Sea Communication and the forthcoming political treatment that the Stortinget will continuously have of the matters before us, and whether it is not also more reasonable that proposal No. 1, which has been promoted, is transmitted without any processing of the facts. I am quite convinced that the Storting will stand by to look at precisely building up the competence of the Kirkenes-South Varanger region, which has been done in recent years, precisely because of the proximity and the need we have to develop this region. It is where competence lies in many ways, and that is where the address must be to develop cooperation and relations in the region. These are the areas in which we will see that the possibility of developing the fishing industry is primarily appropriate, both in terms of development and not least in terms of management. We have the big oil and gas plans, which everyone knows, and we have great potential in the forestry industry, in travel, construction and trade. There are no limits to what kind of opportunities exist. So it's my notified challenge to the Council of State if he is willing during the year to review the funds that were set up more than ten years back in time, and if the Council of State is willing to see the matter in this light as well. On this basis, therefore, I am addressing the two proposals, but we have an opening for us to come back to proposal No. 1 with a request for any transmission.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-14.ana.ud1633e506	The representative Ivar Kristiansen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-14.ana.ud1633e509	The Christian People's Party cannot support the proposal of the Party for Progress as it is in this document, but the document has an intention that it is right to stop. The proposal raises a debate on how to strengthen employment in the north, and also raises a debate on the use of state jobs to make employment in the region more robust and varied. The Christian People's Party believes it must be central in a north-eastern effort to promote the development of business. It applies both to creating new jobs based on the resources available to the region and to localising enterprises that can provide skills and support for innovation. Increasing the proximity of Innovation Norway in Finland is an action that can enhance the competence of the region. In the Christian People's Party, we have no doubt that cooperation with North-West Russia is important for Finnmark and for North-Norway in general. This applies both politically and economically. The Christian People's Party is therefore behind a proposal that opens up to appraise the administration and localisation of the North-West Russia fund. In contrast to the government party, the Christian People's Party wants to sort out a location in Finnmark, because the Christian People's Party wants primarily the relocation of state jobs from Oslo to other regions in the country – we have been involved in this before and believe it is still a great untapped potential there. But the government has no such will. It must be a bit painful for the Center Party to be rolled down this way, because the Center Party was very clear in the election campaign and promised the relocation of several thousand state jobs. The Christian People's Party believes it is desirable to develop the Churches further as a focal point in economic cooperation with North-West Russia. The churches have recently gained several important functions in this cooperation, and it is important that Innovation Norway establishes itself with representation and several functions in the Church. The possible transfer of the administration to the Investment Fund for North-West Russia will strengthen the Kirkenes as a focal point for business cooperation with North-West Russia. But the Christian People's Party doesn't think it's a good idea to shut down the Eastern European Investment Fund and add it to the North-West Russia Investment Fund. We believe that there is still a need for a fund to help the development of Russia and Eastern Europe, where Norwegian enterprises can be involved. We therefore need an action to make Norway the partner in this region. I will briefly sum up the Christian People's Party's point of view in the debate, and they are: the Christian People's Party is open to evaluate the location of the Investing Fund of North-West Russia to the Churches, but this has to be done more closely. The Christian People's Party believes that government jobs should be moved from Oslo to other parts of the country. In addition, we want to make industrial development a more central part of the Northern Region policy, and we want to make Kirkenes a focal point for industrial cooperation with North-West Russia. In addition, the Christian People's Party will hold the Investment Fund for Eastern Europe as a hub for cooperation across the region.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-14.ana.ud1633e526	I want to get into the post from the representative Danielsen The real name is Fredriksen, cf. Lars Peder Breck’s later correction, page 1583. He pointed out that little money has been spent on the fund, and that it can therefore be claimed that it has not completed the task. Measuring about a fund, which we're talking about here, has filled the problem by the amount of money spent, in my opinion, is a little too easy to approach. The main reason why few investments have been made in the Investment Fund for North-West Russia is probably too little access to good projects with the possibility of success. We need to be aware that in the case of investment projects in Russia, the risk is largely linked to the firm's capacity to implement, the project and the unforeseeable nature of the political and economic risks in Russia. In order for the risk of such an equity facility to be acceptable, serious assessments of the projects and the feasibility of their implementation must be made. The interaction with – and requirements of – Innovation Norway in the application process usually helps to strengthen the implementation possibilities of the projects. We know that even large companies with long experience from international activities have experienced significant difficulties in Russia. For small enterprises, of which it is the most, and which do not have the same resources to operate lobbying and meet Russian governance requirements, the threshold can actually be too high, and it is not reasonable to enter equity into such projects. That's why it's actually necessary to say no to some companies. I want to take it with me initially, because it is important for us to manage public funds rationally. So when we discuss this matter, it's not just a matter of locating, but it's also a matter of how we manage public funds. In this context, I would like to point out that the majority position emphasises the need to ensure and further develop Innovation Norway's instrumentation, not to fragment the instrumentation. Fragmenting the instrument, which the proposal of the Progress Party would have entailed, could actually have weakened the ability to manage public funds well, and I am not sure that it would have helped to improve our work against Russia, which must be the main objective. Then to the representative Ivar Kristiansen. I agree with what he says in his statement, that it is necessary to review different schemes, and I am also concerned that we should look with new eyes on how we use the public funds and the public instruments. I also expect, like Ivar Kristiansen, that it is part of the ministry's further work on both this matter and other matters. With regard to this matter, which has been raised by the Progress Party, I, like the representative Uppøen Hansen, would like to put some question mark on the way in which the Progress Party has argued and justified a case. I think it is quite special that one in the position refers to a meeting that has been in the Kirkenes, as well as to a look-up in the South Varanger Avis, and in that way unwarranted attempts to create a distance between the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the external apparatus, Innovation Norway. A greater degree of control of information should be required before it is entered in the document. When a person receives the clear message in the file – when it is actually claimed – that there is disagreement between a Council of State and his external apparatus, it is a serious claim. It was claimed, among other things, that: one is amazed that the Council of State does not listen any more to the professional environment in its own department so that the decisions benefit the industry, as proposed by the proposers. It is also said that it is alarming that the Council of State, by letter of 2 December to the Committee, is negative to the move of the Fund when Innovation Norway at the meeting in the Church claims to be positive. This must be based on a misunderstanding. I hope it is a misunderstanding — if not incorrect information, for it has been claimed clearly by Innovation Norway, both by the case handler and by others later, that they fully support the recommendations of the Council of State to the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-14.ana.ud1633e544	I note that there is no majority in the Business Committee for the proposals made in Document No. 8:8 by Jan-Henrik Fredriksen and Øyvind Korsberg. The government sees the north as a strategically important field of activity. We are now working on an action plan to strengthen cooperation with Russia, and on a comprehensive Northern Region strategy. The work is led by the Minister for Foreign Affairs. The two documents will provide a basis for our cooperation with Russia and for the Northern Region Policy of the Government in the years to come. Innovation Norway’s investment fund for North-West Russia and the Investment Fund for Eastern Europe are part of this work. The funds are – and will continue to be – important tools for our efforts in the north. I believe that in this context there is a need for increased presence in the Kirkenes, but I do not see the basis for moving the entire administration of the North-West Russia fund there. In order to increase investment activity in Russia, Innovation Norway has decided to transfer a position from its headquarters in Oslo to Kirkenes. The position will be occupied by a person with relevant investment skills. He shall inform the investment fund, ex-ante evaluation of proposals for investment projects and assist in the application process. So this means a real transfer of tasks from Oslo to Kirkenes. In addition, Innovation Norway’s regional office in Vadsø will step up operations targeting north-west Russia. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs shall establish a post at the Consulate General in Murmansk. This will be part of Innovation Norway's outdoor apparatus, where one of the tasks will be to provide financial advice for enterprises that will establish themselves in North-West Russia. Innovation Norway will have this presence in Vadsø, Kirkenes and Murmansk. In addition, we have Innovation Norway’s regional offices in Troms and in Nordland. All the offices will be closely linked to the trade union environment in Oslo. With this, we have an effective regional administration, which on a broad basis can take care of businesses from all over the country that want to invest in North-West Russia. I believe that this powerful organisation will benefit both industry in North Norway and elsewhere in the country. It also opens up direct contact with the business community in North Norway and North-West Russia through Innovation Norway’s district offices. I also remind you that, in addition to this, it is possible to draw on the entire Innovation Norway apparatus abroad and the experience we have from international business development. The representatives propose to transfer funds from the Investment Fund for Eastern Europe to the Investment Fund for North-West Russia and the grant fund. This will, in effect, mean the liquidation of the Eastern European Fund, because the Fund will not have any free resources of any importance that can be used for new investments. I consider it very important that the Investment Fund for Eastern Europe should be maintained as an instrument for those countries which are not members of the enlarged EU. The continuation of the Fund will have an impact on business both in this area and in Norway. There are also clear synergies between the two funds as the Eastern European Fund can invest in those parts of Russia that are not covered by the North-West Russia Fund. The transfer of a position from Innovation Norway's head office in Oslo to Kirkenes and the establishment of a position in Murmansk is part of the government's broad initiative in the north. This work will be reflected in an action plan and a comprehensive strategy for the north. I have great faith that this work will contribute to increased activity and more investment in these areas in the future. Then it would be unfortunate to weaken the means we have to follow up on policy in this area. Then, in the debate, the input of the representative, Kristiansen, from the point of view of proposal No. 1, requesting a new review of the funds — the use and location. I think the approach that several representatives have taken in the debate has been positive, and I experience it so that everyone has the aim of strengthening business in the north and relations with North-West Russia. I would therefore like to welcome a possible re-examination of the intentions of proposal No. 1, if applicable.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-14.ana.ud1633e567	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-14.ana.ud1633e571	I think as far as it was an interesting post made by the Council of State, especially since according to this government there should be a wide bet in the north areas. For the time being, only a sample has been reduced, and very unclear signals have been made regarding the management of the Barents Sea. I'll leave that in this round. I'll go back to the end of the last big period. Then we will deal with St.meld. No 30 for 2004-2005 Opportunities and challenges in the north, as it is called. When I look inside. S. No 264 for 2004-2005, reads as follows: ‘The members of the Committee of the Workers’ Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre consider that the Investment Fund for North-West Russia, a fund managed by Innovation Norway, should be regionalised and placed in North Norway. This fund will be one of the main contributions to industrial development in the north. It is also necessary to review the criteria for the allocation of funds under this Fund.» Why is it that those who were the opposition at the time, now government parties, have changed their mind on this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-14.ana.ud1633e583	The President will draw attention to the fact that those who have to reply to a reply shall use the Chair in front of the President's office, and those who have to ask questions shall use the seat of the President as far away as possible. The point is that when you're done with your main post, you go from the pulpit on the left up here, and down to the pulpit in front of the president's seat – where the council is now in place – and stay there until the turn of the line is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-14.ana.ud1633e588	The Northern Areas have been designated by the Government as the main strategic area. Substantial efforts are being made to strengthen activity in the areas, to strengthen cooperation with North-West Russia and to facilitate positive development across the region. This work is led by the Minister of Foreign Affairs through the Northern Region Committee of the Government. An expert committee has been set up to support the important work to be done. We are well in the process of facilitating the development of the north as the new strategically important area of activity. It is possible that the representative of Korsberg has perceived that there are unclear signals and that only a sample has been reduced. There is a considerable amount of work done to get this done. We have signaled that the input that comes into the debate will be given importance in the further work with a view to doing this even better.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-14.ana.ud1633e595	It is so far in this debate by several speakers that it is a wild policy to move state jobs out of more central strata and to what can be characterised as districts. In this respect, there should be jobs that can contribute to something more – not just the relocation of jobs – i.e. jobs that can provide local synergies. I understand that moving out state jobs is part of this government's policy. Then it might be interesting to know which state jobs the Council of State believes should be able to move to Kirkenes and Finnmark.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-14.ana.ud1633e602	This case is not about whether we are going to move out state jobs or not. This issue is mostly about how to make the instrument able to meet the expectations we have for the policy in the northern regions, and to support it in the Northern regions. The provision of an effective instrument in the north will be important in this context. Therefore, Innovation Norway establishes a position at the office in Kirkenes, and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will establish a position at the office in Murmansk just to support positive business development and relations with North-West Russia. That's what this case is about, not first of all about moving jobs from Oslo.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-14.ana.ud1633e614	I am pleased with the chance to ask the same question again, as the Council of State was not at all close to answering what I asked for. What I asked was why the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party at the end of the last period were in favour of the investment fund for North-West Russia being located in North Norway. Since that time was very important, I wonder why the Government and the Council of State do not implement what they thought when they were in opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-14.ana.ud1633e621	What is most important in this matter is to facilitate a comprehensive review and take the necessary decisions to strengthen the work on industrial development in the northern regions, to strengthen cooperation with north-west Russia – to strengthen the overall work of the northern regions. We will do that by setting up a position at the office in Kirkenes, and by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs setting up a new position at the office in Murmansk. Then, in the course of this work, we will consider whether it might be appropriate to further strengthen the presence of the instrument in this area. We might have to come back to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-14.ana.ud1633e626	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-14.ana.ud1633e631	I think we have had an interesting debate here today, where the majority argues against a proposal for which they also argue in many ways. If we look at the setting, there are a number of contradictions. The majority say, among other things:\t\t You can change the ‘In addition, strengthening the administration of the Churches will in reality mean that most of the proceedings are handled there, while the administration of the Churches may alter the competences of the Innovation Norway.’ A little further in the position it says that a different majority – however from the same parties that participated in the previous majority – ‘in the opinion that any transfer of the management of the Investment Fund for North-West Russia to Kirkenes would result in a more inconspicuous instrumentation and thus a poorer supply to the business community’. The same contradictions also come with the rapporteur in his speech, because on the one hand, one argues against taking the small last step, that is, moving the administration of the fund to the Church, and on the other hand, one says that yes, we are doing a lot of work to strengthen the local presence. At best, it's a contradiction. In order to strengthen the local presence in Finnmark, as demonstrated by both the comments of the majority, the letters of the Council of State and the information provided by Innovation Norway, it is strange that the majority now, with the arguments they make, cannot take the small last step and move the administration to the Churches. If, as I have said, you're going to take a step as big as you've done here, it's strange that you can't take the step completely out. The debate has focused on the important effort to be made in the north, and there is a need for increased interaction with Russia. The lack of capital in this area is well known, and it is also well known that there is a need to build a financial environment in Finnmark. It can contribute to this proposal, and it could also send signals to other financial and capital environments about the importance of this region in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-14.ana.ud1633e656	It has been a rather interesting debate to follow in. From the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left's side, it is most important to take a step forward in this matter. What's entirely superior is that these funds will be able to make the best possible use of what they're going to do. Localization is so interesting, but it's that this works, we want to put the most emphasis on. That is why we put forward the joint proposal that was about to be evaluated. Now I found that the Minister of Industry has done very constructively to fulfill the intentions of the proposal of the three parties. I therefore allow myself to make proposal No. 1 to a transmission proposal and to draw up proposal No. 2, from Right, Christian People's Party and Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-14.ana.ud1633e666	I noticed that the Council of State in its reply to me underlined the importance of a comprehensive review and a comprehensive policy. Then it's just to record that at least you didn't have the policy when you were in opposition. It doesn't surprise me at all. In my opinion – and certainly in the opinion of many others – you still do not have the whole policy after you get in position, because here, in fact, what you meant when you were in the opposition and what you do when you're in the position – that is. nothing is done in the position. It's sad, but that's how it is. Then I'm going to clear up a manifest misunderstanding with the representative Lars Peder Breck: On 13 January there were four big business representatives in the Church's meeting with the business community and with Innovation Norway, where the media was also present. At that meeting, there was clearly a desire and a need to move the fund to Kirkenes, not least from Innovation in Norway. It was so clear that no one who was at that meeting was in doubt about what Innovation Norway meant. It was also published in two newspapers the following day. I have not registered that it has been demented by Innovation Norway that the fund manager there said was wrong. But I have later registered that the Council of State has needed to clarify what is the Government's policy. I accept that. But I also record that there is a different policy from what Innovation Norway called for at that meeting. It's just to register. I think it was positive that Innovation Norway said what they said, and it is possible that they found that argument when they read the St.meld setting. No 30, from which I've quoted. If you read that setting, it is clear that the government parties should think that this fund should be moved to North Norway, located in the churches and managed from there. So the fund manager's probably been on safe ground. But that the government has changed the policy from being in opposition to being in position, is probably what has led to the misunderstanding that Lars Peder Breck was so very concerned about. There was no misunderstanding. The misunderstanding must lie with the government parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-14.ana.ud1633e675	I am quite satisfied with the appropriate response of the Council of State to the request of the representative of Kristiansen for a reassessment of the management of the Enterprise Policy Fund. In this context, as the representative of Kristiansen stated, there may indeed be grounds for looking into the management of the Investment Fund for North-West Russia as part of a new policy for the North. The fact that Innovation Norway strengthens its administration both in Finnmark and Murmansk is itself an expression of the new attention now being given to the Barents Sea and to the North. If the Progress Party had been concerned with the best possible industrial development in these areas, they would have seen that this case also has other aspects than job relocation. Unfortunately, the Progress Party is not. I think these pages are actually more important than a new proposal in the series of demonstration proposals from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-14.ana.ud1633e682	The representative Fredriksen made the point that the funds were used little. It could be right to some degree. But we have actually received that answer in the letter from the Council of State to the Committee. I shall quote from the letter: ‘Despite the limited number of investments, Innovation Norway considers that the investment fund and the grant fund have reached out well to the limited group of interested enterprises and financed a large share of commercial projects and start-ups in the region. There has been little interest on the part of Norwegian industry in making investments in North-West Russia every year. The low level of Norwegian investment in North-West Russia is mainly due to the generally difficult investment climate in the region as well as weaker business structures and growth impulses than in more central areas of Russia.’ I also refer to the alleged inconsistency that would exist within Innovation Norway, as the representative Korsberg also pulled up. Then I would like to remind you that the committee had a meeting with Innovation Norway here in Oslo, where we got a statement on how Innovation Norway saw this matter. I am uncertain whether the representative of Korsberg was present at that meeting. In that case, he has not understood what was said at that meeting with Innovation Norway. That is what the Committee and the Storting must adhere to. So I applaud the sensible and positive approach that Right now has given to this matter, and that the Council of State responds positively to a new and unbiased review of both the administration and the location of the fund, which is currently administered by Innovation Norway. Finally, a small comment to the representative Asmyhr, indicating that there is an inconsistency in the setting. It may be interpreted this way, but I would like to clarify, and I would point out that it is important to look at the strengthening of local offices in order to be close to the area in which one is to invest, while at the same time changing the skills and knowledge of Innovation Norway centrally. For me, this is not strange. I want to remind you that this is about business in the whole country, not just business in the north.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-14.ana.ud1633e698	I would like to comment on some of the issues raised in the debate. To take the case rapporteur's last post first. I think it is positive that the case rapporteur himself sees the inconsistencies in the setting that I pointed out. But his explanation of these inconsistencies goes into a kind of bureaucratic argumentation and thinking that I think is very few outside this room and outside the bureaucracy – and at least in the churches – will have some special understanding of. From several representatives, including the case rapporteur in his first speech, the debate has tried to make a kind of mockery of the fact that the Progress Party's fraction had a meeting with business – not only with business but also with local politicians from most parties up in the Church. That, I think, is a very top-down attitude of representatives from a party who looked to those degrees to focus on this with consultation with stakeholders. It would be strange if the Storting should listen to only the sitting state council in all matters, and should ignore any other kind of input that comes from those who are concerned by the matter. When we had this meeting in Kirkenes, the proposal was met with optimism locally up there. It gave hope that it would lead to investment in this area and contribute to capital to companies operating in a capital-poor area – including in relation to Russia, which has a difficult capital and banking structure. This isn't just the Progress Party thinks it's local. All representatives of local parties who were up there expressed that this was a good proposal. So to the representative of Gullvåg, who claims that the Progress Party is not concerned with industrial development in the northern regions. This does not lead to correctness, because there is one party that has highlighted the importance of industrial development in the northern regions, and it is the Progress Party – it is only going and reading in relevant settings. All members of the Progress Party have even been on a business study trip in the northern regions. It must be concluded that all the constructive proposals of the Progress Party are referred to as demonstration proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-14.ana.ud1633e711	South of Novaja Semlya, there is an oil field on the mainland called Prirazlomnoje. In this field of oil, the nation of Norway has received approx. 30 pst. of contracts concluded relating to supply and technical solutions – in sum of more than DKK 1 billion. This is why we want the North-West Russia Foundation to be set up in Kirkenes, in the right light. And I want to say to Uppebøen Hansen that in the case of the companies that have been contracted, there is virtually no one from the Nordic states. It's national interests we're always dealing with. When the majority chooses to say that the Ministry – and through what the Government – is right, they must of course be allowed to do so, but then one thing should also be known, that everything that can crawl and go locally, both this year and for a number of years, has pointed this out and called for an establishment in the Churches to meet a need that has not been met. I think it's a little strange that when we as a party spend time and the effort to understand our needs in the districts, we get back in response that this kind of proposal is seen as a demonstration proposal. I think it's broken to have such a type of rhetoric. As a conclusion, I would say that the need for a regional establishment of such a fund is so great that this has to happen. If you choose to vote today, it will be re-examined and re-examined. For you mean something with what you say, rhetorical, you also have to follow it up with practical policies and actions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-14.ana.ud1633e720	Most of it is well said in this case now, I just want to comment on the last two articles. Let me immediately say that I am very positive that there is an established consultation around the country. Of course, with regard to the meeting in Kirkenes, it is positive that a party grouping travels around the country and has discussions and consultations with the local business community and the local politicians. Of course, the party of progress is quite free to work politically just as they wish. What I pointed to in my article, and what I think is a little bit regrettable, is that the media quote is used as a witness to the truth of what Innovation Norway stands for, when we have received it both in writing and orally from Innovation Norway in other contexts. What I mean is I'm going too far, and that's what I pointed to and tried to stretch under my post. There is not a top and bottom handle, rather the opposite. I respect the Progress Party for their position on this matter, and I respect the fact that the Progress Party can freely promote the proposals they may wish to make in this Chamber. But then I also expect some mutual respect for the other party on such issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-14.ana.ud1633e725	Just in conclusion, it's not unusual to put in the notation input form that comes outside of the comitology. It is quite common – both what has been caught in the media and what is said in meetings. I understand that the Workers' Party has now come into such a situation that they do not like to drive and obtain information from other places and quote others, both from business and elsewhere, but we must actually be allowed to do so. If it had been the case that the Workers' Party had thought it was lucky or unlucky with that kind of statement in an adjustment, I would have expected that it had also been captured in the setting, but there is not a single word that you do not think any comments of that type should occur. We will also in the future quote those that we think are right to quote. That there is a difference between what the Council of State thinks, and what Innovation Norway means, I understand, because Innovation Norway has certainly got what these government parties meant when they were in opposition. That is what is the starting point, and I realize that Innovation Norway is taking it too well. That the government parties are turning around after they have entered the government offices, I have not intended to accuse Innovation Norway for. But I'm actually going to accuse the government parties of doing that – not to follow up the policy that you had when you were in opposition. I think that is unfortunate, and it also creates political disdain.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-14.ana.ud1633e734	This has been an interesting discussion, because it goes on very many different levels, and it's very different we're discussing at the same time. One is the relocation of state jobs, the other is whether we can build up the environment in the churches, the third is how we manage the public funds that this fund is part of. I would like to say that the fourth is whether we should fragment the instrument system we have in Norway, further, as I see it, is the main content of the proposal from the Progress Party. I think that's an important discussion, an interesting discussion. I am opposed to the fact that we are going to operate a further fragmentation of the instrument system. That's why we've gone in to strengthen the activities of the Churches in Innovation Norway. We don't see it as the same intention that the Progress Party had with its proposal. I want to underline this, because it is important that the Innovation Norway Fund Management Unit has over 35 years of expertise in finding business and finance in Russia and Eastern Europe. In fact, 25 investments have been made, and this has been followed up by participation in governance. Up to 400 projects have been evaluated, and a network has been established with authorities, companies, consultants, etc. This means that there is a high level of competence in how to act to ensure that investment becomes reasonable and that one can support Norwegian enterprises in a way that allows them to establish themselves successfully. That is what is the starting point for the office that is now being built in the Kirkenes to be part of Innovation Norway. That's what's the starting point for us not to fragment, but to move on to the competence we have after all within the instrument, instead of fragmenting it and building up a new tool system in parallel. I don't think that's reasonable. I also want to say in response to the representative Hans Frode Asmyhr that when we have this capital, it is not primarily to contribute to investments in the Church, it is actually to strengthen the investment opportunities of Norwegian companies in Russia that are the starting point. Finally, I regret that in my first post I referred to the first speaker like Danielsen. His name is, of course, Fredriksen. I am very sorry that I used the wrong name.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-14.ana.ud1633e745	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Footage, see page 1607]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-14.ana.ud1633e765	When I deal with this matter on behalf of the Right, it is to try once again to clear up the uncertainty that many feel about what is in ‘a new and more active enterprise policy’. There are different signals at different times from different people in the Red-Green government about this, and we'll try to get an answer, so we know what we have to do. For the uncertainty that many now feel is perhaps the most dangerous thing – that we do not know what the framework conditions will be for years to come. I want to start by asking the question of whether we really need a ‘new and more active business policy’. Very much is going very well in the Norwegian industry and in the Norwegian business world, and if we look at industrial production indices from the Statistical Central Bureau, which is up-to-date per year. In January 2006, they show that the current industrial policy, or that of the past few years, is working. In January, industrial production was actually at the highest level since January 2000, i.e. before Stoltenberg was Prime Minister for the first time, and industrial production is 10 pst. higher than he was two years ago. At the same time, we know that exports are increasing, we know that unemployment is falling, and we also see that more and more people feel that they are doing well at work. And then we're going to focus on the last one. It is said in a recent study from the Norwegian School of Commerce that there are now more Norwegians than before who like the job. Despite the fact that many have been subjected to greater work pressure, says a total of 90 pst. they asked that they felt that their employment was better or that they were not changed in the last few years. Even though the demands have increased, we see that many workers view these as positive challenges with the possibility of learning and personal development, says Tom Colbjørnsen at the Norwegian School of Commerce. Of course, we should not allow the policy that has been pursued in the last four years to take all credit for this positive development. We've had good help with international economics. But the policies that have been pursued have helped to exploit the good economic conditions. Let us see, for example: on interest, it's not just that we've got help from abroad, which has brought her down to Norway. In fact, we have from far higher than other European countries four years ago, now come down to a European level. Despite all of these positive things, it is now, as we call it, signaling a ‘new and more active enterprise policy’, and the question is, what has not worked so that we need something new? The problem is not that the new government has done so much wrong, except for some very unfortunate cut, which I'm going to come back to, but there was so much promise, much more in the election campaign. As Arne Strand comments in the newspaper on 26 February: ‘I have never felt that a government has been running from the election vows as this government is about to do.’ The joy is that the government has realized that much of what has been suggested is not realistic, and I very much agree with the Minister of Industry when he pronounces in the newspaper on February 9th this year: ‘It will be a very unwise act on the State which stores run over the other owners of a listed company.’ So, the demands that have come from many parties both in the Labour Party and in the cooperating parties to intervene directly reject the Minister of Industry, and the Right agrees with what the Minister of Industry says in this case. Let me also stress that of course, the Court of Justice's criticism is not directed primarily at the Minister of Industry. There were others in the Workers' Party and others of the Red-Greens who promised gold and green forests and a more active industrial policy in the election campaign, which would largely solve most of the problems. The Minister of Economic Affairs, when we have challenged this earlier, has referred to the conversion measures carried out in, for example: Ardal and Høyanger, as part of this policy. However, migration measures are by no means new – on the contrary. Shifting governments have contributed to conversion in many places and in many businesses over very many years. Business conversion and innovation were a key objective of the Centre-Right-Registration, both to bring forward entrepreneurs, to bring forward new businesses and to bring about change and innovation outside. And perhaps most important, which we don't think much about, is that most of the change takes place in existing companies by also renewing production equipment, by renewing their skills, and by developing positively and thus creating new jobs. We know that about half of the jobs we have today, not found ten years ago, and we know that it will be a shift forward. So, of course, there's no disagreement that conversion is important. It is therefore sad to note that the only thing that is really new so far in the red-green policy is cut off what we can do from a political point of view to stimulate innovation, transformation, innovation and development. We, as politicians themselves, cannot carry out that transformation and this innovation, but we can stimulate through some of the signals we send, through some of the measures we adopt in this room. When I mention the cuts that have been made by the new government in relation to the last proposal from the Center-Right-Registration, I am thinking in particular of the cuts that were made in research, development, innovation and innovation over the Ministry of Industry's budget. The Minister of Industry says it is an increase in relation to last year. Yes, it is, but it's a sharp decrease of almost 100 million. kr in relation to what was proposed by the Bondevik Government. In addition – and this represents the large amount and one of the most important elements of this – the Centre-Right government proposed to increase depreciation rates on machinery and equipment, because Norwegian industry and Norwegian industry have had worse conditions than their European trading partners in this area. Most other countries have had depreciation rates of 25 p.m., and we suggested raising depreciation rates in Norway as well. This is what the new government and the new growth majority said no to, which, in our view and after what industry itself has said, is one of the most unfortunate signals we can send when we don't want to stimulate innovation, conversion, initial investment and modernisation in businesses. These cuts and attacks on conversion and innovation are the only concrete new things we've seen so far. It is signaled by the new government that it will come with a new acquisition law, which is quite uncertain what will happen, and there will be a new ownership policy. But with the signals that have come so far that at least one will try to stay close to the real world even when it comes to these two things, the new claims are that it should be so new, it should be so active, it should be so much better than before, it should not be able to create anything but ambiguity and uncertainty. If there's something our business needs now, it's a stable, secure environment and a clear signal of what the political plurality in Norway will give us over the coming years. I hope that the Minister of Industry will welcome this invitation from the Right too, as he has done in one matter earlier today, so that we can have a proper discussion, not for the sake of the Minister of Industry and the Right, but for the Norwegian business community, who would very much like to know: What do we have to do in one, two and three years?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-14.ana.ud1633e801	Let me first thank you for the initiative he has taken. But it had to be a government shift before the Right promoted an interpellation on industrial policy. You actually have to go eleven years back in time to find the last Right promoted an interpellation on industrial policy, but it's never too late. The government is pursuing an active enterprise policy. We want passivity and the so-called nutritional neutrality to life. We are not afraid to support businesses or industries where it provides opportunities to secure profitable businesses and not least profitable jobs. Now we're doing what we promised in the election campaign: We establish framework conditions and set out appropriations that provide the basis for creating new profitable jobs.We rate where we have good opportunities to succeed, such as: Travel and maritime sectors.We have an active ownership policy.We actively contribute to different small communities when jobs are laid down, such as at Union and Årdal Metallverk. We have to look for new opportunities and build up knowledge that makes these societies well equipped for the future. Only business, municipality and employees can succeed. This government will face the future with an offensive industrial policy. New technology and new knowledge will change needs in the future. Here we see the differences on the right-hand side and the left-hand side of Norwegian policy. Our goal is for Norway to become one of the leading innovative, dynamic and knowledge-based economies in the world. The basic objectives of industrial policy are to ensure high employment, low unemployment and high value creation. Now we see that the time off goes down, and the value creation is high. That means we're going to succeed with the big lines. There are several dimensions of the Government’s industrial policy. Let me first mention research and development. This government spends more resources on research and development in business than ever before. It's never been cut in the appropriations as the interpellant claims. The appropriations for the Research Council, Innovation Norway and SIVA have increased by 507 million. kr, or nearly 29 pst., from the 2005 budget balance. The Norwegian Research Council will receive more than DKK 1 billion from the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade budget in 2006. This is an increase of 170 million. kr in relation to 2005. In addition, the favourable tax deduction scheme for the R & D costs of enterprises comes the so-called TAX FUNN scheme. It's not cut, no matter how many times it repeats. The previous government was never adopted in the vicinity of so much money in the Storting, and it is as well known the Storing that grants. Now we get the new seed schemes in place. On Wednesday we got the news. ESA approved new and improved conditions for follow-up investments. The new conditions will facilitate the development of innovative projects. This is a breakthrough in the creation of seed funds. I expect the nationwide seed funds to be operational by the end of this year. The same would be true of the two funds in North Norway. The Bodø Fund may be operational until the summer. We are focusing on new areas and new instruments. The Government has adopted a strong increase in Norway’s participation in European space projects. We're going to attend 947 million. kr over a few years. And we are in favour of Norwegian membership of the European Patent Organisation. It's been quiet for 30 years! The previous government was able to do nothing about this. We solved the case in three months. The second dimension is on national strategies. We bet there we have special advantage. We've given over 170 million. To travel through Innovation Norway, and work on a national travel strategy has begun. A working group now assesses a voluntary certification scheme for Norwegian travel businesses. Tourists coming to Norway will receive high-quality products. As far as the maritime sector is concerned, we have increased the allocation of the reimbursement scheme for seafarers, and we are extending the regime for more seafarers on competitive ships in NOR from 1 July 2006. To have a strong industry, it is absolutely vital that we produce power. That is why we want to build gas power plants with CO2 cleaning, and that is why we are now working on a plan for a large-scale investment in renewable energy. The third dimension goes on infrastructure. Broadband, rail and roads are also industrial policy. The government is giving half a billion more to traffic. This is a good contribution to business. That's good business policy. The fourth dimension is related to conversion. It is also part of the active industrial policy to set up communities undergoing major transformations, such as Høyanger, Årdal and Skien. We've done it before. We met the changes in Mo in Rana and South Varanger when the corner stone companies were closed down.Kongsberg, Horten and Glomfjord are other communities that have met the challenges and come out stronger of them. Now we meet the challenges in Ski, Høyanger and Årdal offensively. On its side, the right did nothing to prepare these changes in the time they were in the government offices — for four years. The next dimension is related to ownership. The government is in favour of a heavy Norwegian state ownership in many Norwegian companies to ensure national anchoring, with head office, research and other strategic decisions in Norway, and to ensure community income from our common natural resources. We'll let the companies expand and evolve when it's natural. We will evaluate the holdings continuously and will not, as the Right, sell us down on principle. We want to make sure companies take social responsibility. We want diversity in governments, long-term thinking, dialogue with communities and employees in migration processes, and we want gender equality to be taken into account. We are pursuing a good economic policy, with the order of the budgetary policy, we are supporting budgetary policy, we are supporting stable exchange rates and low interest rates, as well as income policy cooperation. In the 2006 state budget, we were able to re-prioritize large budget lines for important purposes, without spending more money than the previous government put forward in its proposal. We got through a substantial tax reform that results in taxing dividends and a tax system that is fairer. Let me conclude: the government has said that we are going to create a new course for business policy. We have a four-year plan. The objective is an active industrial policy that contributes to ensuring Norwegian value creation in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-14.ana.ud1633e871	It was very positive in the state council's posts, but I miss the new things that have been reflected in these areas. Let me comment on some of the points that the Council of State was talking about. The Council of State rightly states that there is a high potential in the tourism sector, in the maritime sector and in other sectors. Yes, we are definitely some in the Right and in the other former government parties. What's paradoxical, as I pointed out in my main post, is that the new government cuts in relation to the old one. Government says they've never cut their vows. Well, there might also be a way to look at it, if only one compares to the previously agreed budget. But that's the first time in history it's happened that one can't compare to what a government proposes. We had a balanced budget that we put forward and that we were on, and in relation to that, it was cut, no matter what the Minister of Industry had to say. Then the Minister of Industry boasts of the reimbursement scheme for seafarers. It is a good thing that this is tax-free for a group. It is only that other workers and other enterprises have to pay for this and perhaps ten times as much in tax aggravation towards business. And then it becomes a little bit net again. So the Council of State considers the importance of the power situation, and he also dares to mention this with a focus on renewable energy. Then we're in one of the areas where the government has promised one thing and done nothing about it, that's when it comes to trying to get to a green renewable energy certificate market. There the government has also failed fundamentally. So the Council of State also mentions how important it is to convert into some deferred societies and businesses, as I was in my post, and he claims that the former government party has not done anything in that direction. Then I would remind you that it was actually in the previous period that a lot of this we're doing now, was confirmed. Such conversion processes are definitely not new in Norwegian history. Here's a good tradition of helping to convert from the state's side, to get something new, something innovative and something forward-looking. Then the state council says a little bit about national ownership. Yes, we are definitely not against national ownership from the Right side to secure national anchoring, with head office, but the Minister of Industry has previously given us the right to not be able to go into detail and control user ownership in that direction. So there are at least some of us.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-14.ana.ud1633e888	The representative of Løvik reiterates the claim that we have cut the appropriations for research, innovation and development. Again, that's not right. The store has never allowed more money for these purposes than now. The fact that the Bondevik government presented a draft budget where some figures were larger does not detract from the fact that this government, which is a majority government, managed to get through in the Storting the high appropriations that will be missing from these areas. Our predecessor did not have a majority in the Storting for the budget that it left behind in the government offices. Then the representative of Løvik is right in saying that a lot is going well in Norway, and we are going to enjoy that. We also said in the election campaign that a lot is going well, but that we had the wrong direction. I'm still on it. The new offensive industrial policy is pointing out a new direction. One of the examples is that we reversed the privatisation of the Flytrain, Yara and BaneTele, with which we are now in a process. Although a lot is going well today, we have no guarantee that things will go well in 10 years or 20 years. We know that the welfare paid by business today is paid through products and services that we hardly knew about 20 years ago. We know that the well-being that will be paid in 20 years' time will be paid through services and products that may not exist today. Therefore, there is a need to facilitate continuous conversion and to address businesses whenever they need it. And that is why it is important to have an instrument that also takes care of these considerations. We're doing what we promised in the election campaign. The global community faces challenges for vulnerable communities. That's why we made sure that it was set at 100 million in the spring of 2004. kr for conversion and innovation in Høyanger and Årdal. It was that the Stortinget ordered the government to come back with proposals to grant it, and it was the Workers' Party that promoted that proposal. This government is now following up the decision of the majority in the United Kingdom in the spring of 2004, which makes it possible to implement the changes needed in vulnerable communities such as Årdal and Høyanger.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-14.ana.ud1633e899	Although Norway is a good country to live in, it should be an even better country to live in. Value creation and production are crucial for good public welfare. That's why we have to be busy creating before we share. Norway has been a commodity and industrial community. That's what we're going to do in the future. Our competitiveness lies above all in the fact that we have a population that knows a lot. Competence and knowledge are decisive for such development. At the same time, we must be willing to take active action in business policy. Unfortunately, industrial developments have been marked by a decline for many years, and more communities are struggling to maintain industrial employment. These developments are now turning us around. Industrial policy must become more regional. Therefore, it is necessary to develop a regional value creation environment in which commodity suppliers, financial institutions and the environment of competence play a role. In other words, regional cooperation arenas must be established between the research and development environment on the one hand and business on the other. We need to strengthen cooperation between business, research and authorities, and more funds need to be invested in research and development. The red-green government has great ambitious goals in such a priority. It is important for Norwegian industry and industry to have a stable and sustainable economic environment. A red-green government – which is also a plural government – will contribute to a policy that can provide such security, long-termity and foresight. Such stability was not possible in the period we have left behind, in which the interpellant's party was in and out. The Labour Party does not believe in ideologicalized business neutrality and passivity, as the previous government did. Therefore, we will be active and help to create a good framework for the development of future industrial policies. It is not a question of subsidising the wolf industry, as many would claim, but of campaigning to develop profitable industries, i.e. profitable industries. Today’s industrial production must have a good framework and must be able to develop new and forward-looking activities. Innovation Norway and SIVA are good tools in this way. Therefore, the limits of these areas must be extended and the conditions must be improved. It is fair rhetoric to claim that the government has cut off these tools, as the interpellant repeatedly claimed. The truth is that the permits for these areas have been greatly increased in 2006, as the Council of State also stated – not as much as the outgoing government suggested, but still an increase in respect for them. It was in many ways a funny situation last fall. First of all, we had a government that had no interest in strengthening the public sector – not until, in principle, it had gone off after the election. Secondly, the philosophy was that the market should be settled without public interference. As I understand the representatives of these parties now, there is a lack of tools that are being called for, and that's good. My answer is that Innovation Norway and SIVA may be the most important tool in this way. Our capacity for innovation and innovation in the Norwegian economy is influenced by many factors. If the Government is to succeed in this work, we must ensure that this is maintained in the overall policy pursued. I am thinking here in areas such as education, research, infrastructure – and infrastructure, I mean road, rail and broadband – and regional development, to mention something that is crucial to happiness. State ownership is important for Norwegian industry and business. The state as a major shareholder must play an active role in Norwegian business. Businesses in the state must be profit-making when it comes to social responsibility. State ownership must be made more competent, tidy, and active, while avoiding inappropriate mixing of roles. These are issues that the Government will come back to at a later date. Finally, I just want to say that the Government will deliver over an entire four-year period.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-14.ana.ud1633e925	I guess a lot of people have missed an active business minister, and I almost kept saying that I miss him here now, but I see that he's sitting reasonably relaxed at the back of the room. At least he gets my post with him. Some attention had not been damaged. The council said in its speech that it was eleven years since the Right had had an industrial policy interpellation. I don't think it's crucial how often right or other parties put up an interpellation in this hall. What is important is, in fact, the proposals adopted in this Chamber – and there have been shortcomings. I don't have all the world's experience and speed in Stortinget. I've only been sitting here for eight years. But I can assure the President that the lack of proposals to improve the framework conditions for industry has not been. What has been missing has been to have a majority for these proposals. With regard to proposals linked to the environment — on environmental improvement and conservation — they go much, much easier, and some of them are good, for example, the Gothenburg Protocol. But the result of such a misalignment is that Norwegian industry loses in competition with other markets, and that industry is moving out. We are experts in imposing special environmental requirements on Norwegian enterprises, Norwegian industry and Norwegian industry, and that is not exactly what benefits Norwegian industry. The Kyoto agreement is an example, and one can only look at the debate that has been around the construction of gas power plants in Norway with very special peculiar requirements. Gas power plants are being built in other parts of Europe, but not in Norway. Hydro in Årdal and Union in Skien is not really to be avoided in a debate like this, simply because the government parties created a violent expectation in the election campaign. You could look and often see Øystein Djupedal show up with a blue helmet and tell him to save the workplaces. The same was true of Prime Minister Stoltenberg. But after the election was over, no more has been seen in the attempts to help these jobs. What you've seen is that the government has brushed dust from an old fire extinguisher to try to minimize the damage. So let's say it's a word I'm thinking about in that way. The problem with the Government is that it is going to be a queue of industrial companies that have to shut down during this period – large and small. The small ones may be anchored against the communities, and their closure will have great consequences. Last week I was in the inner Troms and had a meeting with the rapporteur in Sørreisa, where the company Troms Tre is closed. I actually recommended him to go to Oslo and visit the Prime Minister for a check, as other rapporteurs have done. Saving the jobs in the district is a positive thing to do, but I think the job is being saved with the wrong tool. Better conditions should be created to improve the development of jobs by promoting a good overall framework for industry. What you've noticed about the Government is that it's been completely absent. It does not have the representatives of the government parties here in Stortinget. A verbal abuse of the management of Hydro has almost been carried out by transforming them into both postmans and others. And the Vice President of the Swedish Stock Exchange was going to wind up the entire Stock Exchange. So it's clear that the signals coming out to business are worrying. In conclusion, I want to be so constructive that I will give the Council of State, which is now taking part in my contribution, an opportunity to do something for some industrial jobs, namely those that produce chocolate in Norway. Each of the jobs is linked up to charges of approx. 400,000 kroner. A letter has been sent from LO to the Prime Minister to get something done with the fees. «The head of the LO begs Jens cut sweet fees», said the newspaper on 11 March. And Jens is Jens Stoltenberg. They're on first name. We are going to make proposals to remove this levy, and I believe that the Government is actually supporting it in the context of the revised national budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-14.ana.ud1633e947	The most future jobs created today are created in the link between environment and profitability. There are exciting things happening when developers and visionaries meet and develop products and processes that we need more. Let me give you some examples: in the aluminium industry, we see that the transition from open Søderberg furnaces to closed pre-baking furnaces both reduces energy consumption per year. unit aluminium, reduces emissions and improves the working environment in relation to both heat and dust. This is a development that I want more of. It points to a future in which competitiveness and consideration for a better environment are the right direction to go. Similarly, I would like to refer to an example from Mandal, where the composite specialist and MTB producer Umoe have a new leg to stand on, namely the production of mill blades for windmills. The fact that a manufacturer of warships has begun to make money on environmental technology is good, and that is probably the closest thing we in Norway have come in recent years to smear swords into plough – a development that I want more of. Because we have to use our natural assumptions. In the energy sector, we have an enormous potential for economic development, from wind, sun, wave and, above all, drinking water. There are a lot of applications at NVE for wind power development. Whether this is carried out, inter alia: Along the coast of Finnmark, it will provide important alternatives to workplaces in our most vulnerable areas of oil activity. In addition, of course, jobs related to line reinforcement are also a natural consequence of increased investment in wind power. Tide water also has the potential to be a great nourishment, if we bet. Hammerfest Energie has a prototype of a Tidal Power Plant in Kvalsundet that produces electricity 24 hours a day using the water that passes through the sound. And drinking water power should not be underestimated. Today, there are speed brakes in drinking water pipes with a high drop height to reduce the speed of the water into the kitchen crane. Here, the speed brakes can be replaced by small turbines, thus releasing energy, while creating an increased market for small water turbines, for example, which can be produced on Southumsand, where the nutrition committee recently visited. The production of solar cells is a Norwegian industrial venture both on Herøya, in Glomfjord and not least on Orkanger, in my own home country. Many creeks small should be the starting point for continued Norwegian hydropower deployment. It should also be the starting point for Norwegian energy supply in general. Environmental technology-based workplaces are future-oriented jobs for many reasons – not only do they provide jobs; they also provide better environment and jobs. Business, including the Norwegian industry, needs a transition to sustainability. We have to have a perspective that captures the whole thing and where you see the value chains in context. A majority government provides a good starting point for lighting the lights and showing the way towards increased sustainability and long-term employment in Norway. Through the Soria Moria Declaration, all government parties agree that we should become an environmental nation and be in the forefront of environmental technology investment. One of our instruments, which the interpellant has also had in relation to industrial policy, is a more active public ownership. The state should, of course, work to keep companies in the forefront of its industries in relation to research and to develop advanced Norwegian subcontractors. Companies with a high state ownership shall be the lighthouse of business, both in terms of creating values and in terms of creating values in such a way that it does not involve plundering neither on employees nor on nature. Government ownership is good for most people, who benefit from the well-being that is funded by the income from ownership. But state ownership is also good for businesses. It provides security in the form of a long-term owner who does not intend to realise the ‘morning’ share value on the stock exchange. Another important instrument is the new and strengthened acquisition law that has been notified. It will be an important instrument for maintaining skills and profitable jobs in Norway, including in companies not owned by the State itself. Of course, it is positive that the interpellant is concerned with Norwegian industry and the Government’s industrial policy. But I would like to remind you that it takes time to restore the tools that the right forces have systematically removed. Recovery is a laborious task, but it must be done if we are to set a point for the hegemony of neoliberalism.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-14.ana.ud1633e973	The scope of active enterprise policy has gained a lot of attention in Stortinget during the winter. This may be due, for example, to: that the new government promised very much in the election campaign, but in the power position they have shown up tools, or tools, from the previous government. So there have been big words and little new content. Today, the Minister of Industry has said a lot – many words have been used. I noticed that the representative Oppebøen Hansen – for the nth time from that side – made claims that the Bondevik II government was responsible for business neutrality. I understand that the representative Oppebøen Hansen feels bad about the idea that the Stoltenberg I government, as far as I have registered, is the only government that has supported industry neutrality in a document. Bondevik II had no nutritional neutrality either as a target or as an instrument. I've philosophized a little and thought while I've been listening to the debate: does the manager of the everyday business know what's being said here? Because as I know the leaders of the everyday businesses, they are busy taking care of them added, creating security and well-being. They're busy getting new jobs from the company. They are busy following developments in the industry – being on the hook and not being aft-marked. And all of them, most of them are trying to do the utmost to follow the laws, the rules, etc. not to become a lawbreaker. But it's not always that easy to stay orientated. This is precisely what I hope to be in the focus and goal of business policy, that business policy does not become a slogan rhetoric, but questions about how we can make everyday life easier and better for the leader of the everyday business. Because it's these companies around our country that are themselves the backbone of business. I agree with former Minister of Finance Per Kleppe when he recently wrote in the Newspaper: ‘The task of business policy is to help ensure that the framework conditions are such that industry can continuously improve production and adapt to changing conditions of competition.’ Therefore, I hope that the Minister of Industry is crystal clear in his explanation of how he wants the everyday business's future to be. Will he continue the simplification work that the Bondevik II government was doing well through the ALTINN project? Will he commit all his achievements to defeating the Minister of Finance, so that the depreciation rates on machines and equipment should be 25 p.m., as our government suggested? Will he ensure that the TaxFUNN is still a rigorous and unbureaucratic system, or will he let the bureaucrats of the Ministry of Finance destroy the scheme through an impractical, rigorous and incomprehensible regulation? Will he provide more money for nutrition research and development? And will he put the weight into removing the wealth tax on working capital, as a whole business life shouts about? Then I wanted the Minister of Industry to be a little clearer about what he actually means by a new acquisition law and the expectations of a new acquisition law, because there is a lot of hope for a new acquisition law. The previous laws were at least not of any particular use, to say it very simply. When business policy debates become academic exercises without interest to business, we are on the wrong channel. But when business focuses on business every time business policy issues come on the political agenda, we're where we're going to be. I hope that the Minister of Industry will do what he can for the latter to happen. If he does so in a good way, he can count on the support of the Christian People's Party. But if he doesn't, yes, I'm afraid he has a problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-14.ana.ud1633e991	I also want to be one of those who give praise to the interpellant. I think this is an important debate, and it is good that we have a discussion in this Chamber on how to develop a new industrial policy for this country. I want to say in the beginning that so far the government has delivered good results on welfare, but at the same time we feel that people have clear expectations for us in the field of industrial policy. Much has happened, as the Council of State was about to say, but as he also pointed out, there is a lot that still needs to be done before we have filled up the Enterprise Policy Toolbox. But we also have to remember that the previous government spent four years – at least as we see it – emptying this toolbox, so it shouldn't be any surprise to anyone that it takes more than four and a half months to fill it up again. And if you're going to be a little rude, there's no tools that can be bought on Clas Ohlson -- you have to smear it yourself. At least we're experiencing that today. It is important to distinguish between broad and narrow industrial policies. On the part of the Centre Party, we are concerned with the broad economic policy. In addition to the measures taken by the Ministry of Economic Affairs, which the Council also pointed out in its statement, important steps have been taken in both the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs, the Ministry of Transport, the Ministry of Oil and Energy, the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Fisheries, to name a few. All the instruments of these departments are important in the broad economic policy. They are essential to enable us to create more jobs in the future throughout this long-term country. And I want to mention some important points in that regard. In the area of the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs, it is likely that the main instrument is to reintroduce the differentiated employer’s fee in as much of the country as possible. It is perhaps the best and most targeted tool for industry and business in the districts. And for those who are concerned with tax relief, we're actually talking about reduced costs for both companies and municipalities of nearly 9 billion kroner on an annual basis. It's significant and very important if we're able to get to it. Work is also done within KRD to put in place the ‘Norwegian Centre of Expertise’. There are instruments that have also been used in the past, correctly, but one extends the framework for it and goes beyond what the previous government has done. One has reintroduced municipal nutrition funds, which were, in fact, very important for creating new jobs in many municipalities. In 2001, the municipal food funds contributed to 1,800 jobs until the end of the whole scheme by the Bondevik government. I think it is also important to fill in municipal nutrition funds. One, as also pointed out by the Council of State, has increased the access to capital of Norwegian enterprises through increased support for Innovation Norway and SIVA. Here it is important to see business policy in a broad context. The Minister of Industry was concerned about the conversion measures for one-sided industrial sites. It is important that, within the framework of an active industrial policy, we have a toolbox for those places that experience the disappearance of industrial activities from the community. In particular, the county councils play a role here. We've seen in Årdal, and we've seen in Skien, that there's been a cooperation between the company, the municipality, the county and the state. I think it's very important that one goes on with the broad bet here. But it's important when we're working on such conversion tools, that it's perceived that we care about the whole country, and that it's not just the places where it's called the highest, that get attention from the Government or from the other actors. It is not that some jobs are more important than others. What we're doing, for example. See in Årdal in Sogn and Fjordane, is perhaps a characteristic example here. When we look at them at the same time, for example: What agriculture in Sogn and fjords has lost jobs in recent years is relatively limited in terms of the loss of the Årdal. In the last ten years, 2,300 agricultural holdings have disappeared in Sogn and Fjordane, i.e. 14 Valleys, or 1.7 Valleys per. years. One might say that when a job is engaged in conversion measures, a person has to work widely and concentrated on the real problems facing the different industries. And it's more than just traditional industrial sites.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-14.ana.ud1633e1005	I think it is good that with this interpellation we can have the opportunity to debate the new industrial policy, which we have heard throughout the election campaign and throughout the first year of the government of the new government. So far, we are confused about this new industrial policy. There has been confusion among the opposition party – I don't know what he's about. There has been confusion among most people – and the jam has been equally confusing even in the middle of the government, between the government parties. I have been sitting and listening to the debate until now, and in my opinion, there has not been so much today either. We have listened to a lot of fine words, honorary words, but a little concrete – in that way a person talks about a new industrial policy. Should there be stronger governance in the limited liability companies in which the State is the owner, or should it not? Should Hydro and Årdal search for extended emission permissions from SFT, or should they not? Is it necessary to increase depreciation rates in the business community, or is it not? I mean, I haven't got an answer to these and many other questions. Like Lars Peder Breck, I also see fisheries and agricultural policy as part of business. When it comes to agricultural policy, we have asked the Minister of Agriculture what the new agricultural policy is. We got two answers: it's family farming, and it's investing in bioenergy. We still don't know which family farming should hold new moments. When it's about bioenergy, the previous government is already betting on it. I note that State Secretary Ola T. Heggem now goes out in the newspapers – at least in my home country – and warns people against being too optimistic over the agricultural negotiations. When it comes to fishing, it was nice to see the Prime Minister open new fish production in Mehamn, and that there is optimism there. I hope that the Government's fisheries policy will ensure the delivery of raw material all year round, so that both Mehamn and other coastal communities can live on. In this way, the Minister for Fisheries is given light in all the houses along the coast, as she has as her goal. But so far, we have seen stops when it comes to structuring, which was in the process of creating optimism both among the fishing boat owners and among the fishermen in the Norwegian fishing teams and in the banks, who were supposed to provide investment and job security. What has happened so far is that the boats that had come a long way when it was completely structured, and that on an unannounced date got a stop and a fall on the wrong side, now have a big economic problem. I saw in the VG on Friday 24 February that the Workers' Party's whole-page group tried to correct the impression of confusion, confusion and lack of action in business policy. A time change was notified. But apart from the areas of research and transportation – where the government certainly has not delivered as it promised – it is perhaps a change of time, which one can fear. It seems that someone thinks it's possible to click on a reset button and create a business policy in Norway that is isolated from the rest of the world. Either you like it or you don't like it, Norway is part of a globalized world. It is also industry policy, which requires new tools if Norway is to have a chance to compete — especially with the salaries we have here in this country. For the Left, the business policy is to facilitate innovation, research and increased knowledge, which can give us an advantage when it comes to smart and environmentally friendly ways of producing goods and services. For me, this is talking about the Toolbox – which is empty, which is to be filled, or what it is at any time now – completely meaningless. For me, a toolbox is an image of repair equipment. It's a repairer that has a toolbox today, not an innovation. [[President clubs]] It would be nice if, in this debate for once, we could have some concrete future plans for the new industrial policy agreed by the government party. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-14.ana.ud1633e1026	The President must ask the representatives to stick to the speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-14.ana.ud1633e1029	I think it is quite bold of the former government parties to challenge the Government in terms of business policy. These are parties that have stood up with their mantra, such as reducing taxes and cutting public expenditure is the only solution of industrial policy. They are firmly attached to the belief that the best industrial policy is to have no industrial policy at all. Therefore, they surround themselves with characteristics such as ‘honor words’ and empty phrases when discussing the Government’s industrial policy. But if the representatives of the former government parties have not marked the change of government, then thousands of brewers and seafarers have done so. For they have saved their jobs as a result of the change of government. While the Prime Minister of the former government went to Skien with an empty toolbox, this government is in full swing with the conversion work. The Bondevik government did not lift a finger to secure the work in Årdal and Høyanger. This government ensures that one-sided industrial communities that have exploited Norwegian natural resources over decades can continue to live and develop into the future. We are in the process of filling the toolbox that right in government with the Christian People's Party and the Left, well assisted by the Advance Party, spent four years emptying. We've caught up with that job. But we need a little more than five months to shape the future industrial policy. We are going to create a new acquisition law that can prevent profitable businesses from being slaughtered and good jobs being laid down. We're going to create a new ownership policy where state ownership means making demands on the enterprises that the government owns, in addition to what can be read in the bottom lines of the accounts. Active ownership means that the State should use its shareholder influence, of course, within the framework and rules of the share law. The State must also have clear expectations of economic development and benefits. A more active state ownership policy also requires companies to take their share of responsibility for the society that surrounds them. ethical requirements must be imposed on companies and they must contribute to the achievement of our national research and development objectives; An active ownership will also mean that the state acquires itself into companies of great importance to business, including: to maintain competence and head office in Norway. In other cases it may be appropriate to sell or merge companies in order to ensure industrial partnership and market access. This is what is called active industrial policy, which is the counterpart of action paralysis and business neutrality. I have visited a number of companies, business organisations and research institutions, sometimes also in companies with the interpellant. In this stream of inspections, company visits, meetings and conferences, I have only experienced once that a manager is talking about taxes and taxes. But almost everyone I've met has talked about the need for increased transport investment and nutrient research and development. That is why we are also betting in these areas. The Government will ensure that the road and rail operations achieve the objectives set out in the National Transport Plan, as confirmed in the Soria Moria Declaration. I think it's important to have the right focus in business policy. Not that I underestimate the importance of low inflation, low interest rates and a stable exchange rate. General economic policy is an important framework for business. In this area, fortunately, there is broad consensus in the Biggest, with the exception of the Advance Party, which sits outside all socio-economic frameworks and believes that they can spend oil money on society. The consequence of such a policy will, of course, be increased price increases, increased inflation and higher prices, with devastating effects on the Norwegian economy and the Norwegian economy. It's worrying that the second largest party of the Storting does not show greater economic soberness and instead appeals to pure populism by imagining that there is no limit to how much we can spend and consume in this society.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-14.ana.ud1633e1046	I will commend the interpellant for putting this interpellant and industry situation on the agenda. Industry is important, and it deserves such a broad debate as we now have here in Stortinget. I have noticed one thing, and it is that a number of representatives of the government parties who are constantly out in the media and traveling around the country preaching a new industrial policy, a new industrial policy, are away from the Chamber when the Stortinge discusses the future of industry. Then I think it will be petty when the current government and government parties criticize the previous government for its industrial policy. It was not particularly impressive, but if you are to criticize others, you have to take clear action. The industry is under pressure, although much of Norwegian industry is doing very well. Industry continues to exert strong pressure on margins and on active competitors abroad. We still have media redundancies about the closure of industrial holdings and the deflagration to low-cost countries. What's important about the industry is that the industry is our touch point towards the rest of the world. A competitive industry is a sign of our competitiveness vis-à-vis the rest of the world, and it is important, not just for industry, but for our whole society. We have reached a critical point in the presence of industry in Norway. If there is a setback to industry now, it will be about the entire future of Norwegian industry in Norway. Under 300,000 industrial workplaces, which are smaller than the number of unemployed, have to be said to be a minimum number of jobs in order to maintain an industrial environment that can develop further and that can maintain and develop skills. Automation is important in today's industrial enterprises. Even I have had the pleasure of visiting several companies that are investing heavily in robots and other automation, which shows that Norway needs to be at the top in terms of automation in an industry that has now become very capital intensive. The Government could then make proposals for the best depreciation rates in Europe, which is not to be done. It's a simple grip that can be done quickly. The Council of State stressed that the Government wanted to meet the future with an offensive industrial policy and that Norway should be one of the most innovative economies in the world. My question, then, is: What parties in the Great Britain disagree with the kind of formulations – a kind of well-meaning, round formulation that everyone, regardless of political background, or whether or not one has participated in a previous government, can stand behind? If there is to be an expression of this government's new active industrial policy, there is no new content in it. Everyone agrees with that kind of wording. Furthermore, the Council of State has put forward a number of instruments to indicate the Government’s new active industrial policy – R & D, Innovation Norway, SkattenFUNN and transport. There is no disagreement that these are important instruments. The question that needs to be asked to the Government and the Council of State is: why are the Committees of the United Kingdom now almost unemployed when it comes to matters of the government apparatus? The Industry Committee has no business. Why does the Government not promote an industrial notification that the Industry Committee could address, or an industrial notification as a follow-up to the position of the Industry Committee which came last year? There should be enough room for manoeuvre to get a policy that is at the best of industry and that would involve an active industrial and industrial policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-14.ana.ud1633e1065	If one is to describe the outcome of the efforts of the Red-Green Government and the Council of State for Norwegian business so far, I think it is possible to use the word «uncertainty» – uncertainty because the rhetorical meeting with reality seems to be just as difficult as some of us thought it would be, uncertainty because the rhetorical concept of «active enterprise policy» is going to lie like a pencil around the bones of the Minister of Industry until he has supplied something that is perceived as concrete in business. It hasn't happened that far. Instead, massive promises were first made, such as uncertainty about some industrial communities, about the importance and power of the Competition Authority in relation to political governance, about the restructuring of the farming industry, and not least about what is to become the content of a acquisition law that might impose fines in the million-year class for necessary restructuring measures. This creates uncertainty for Norwegian business and for the creation of jobs and uncertainties as regards tax access and welfare in Norway. So far there has been industrial policy by the input method. That is why the Løvik interpellation is important, but not to clarify what this concept of active enterprise policy is, because I think most people now realize it is rhetorical and individual. The debate here today has also clearly shown that. We will receive a notification of ownership that will provide what is called ‘a more active state ownership’ and that we have come to understand that neither buying-in nor selling state enterprises, but in the replacement of directors of enterprises where the country is also the owner, enterprises that, in brackets, are now doing better than they have ever done, and are contributing positively to jobs and tax revenue. The active business policy at least consists of a continuing and increasing wealth tax on all Norwegian investors who want to place their funds in the value creation of Norwegian business. In business, it is often said that the most important thing is the actual clarification of what is to come, i.e. predictability itself. Therefore, it would be good to be able to clarify what the active business policy really is, or whether this is just a single one, and to continue the good business policy that the previous government put forward and that has contributed to the results that we see today in Norwegian business. Now there is uncertainty as to whether or not something new is going to happen, something out of the way, something groundbreaking that no one has ever thought of – a kind of food policy abracadabra to help make it rain welfare down on the population. These expectations have created the current government parties through their electoral campaign rhetoric. Now it turns out that there were only honorary words and empty phrases, to borrow the name of the representative of Gullvåg, who was just here on the platform. In the World Gang at the end of February, the Workers' Party's nutrient fraction writes that they have been on an endless number of company visits around the country. It sounds like it's been an impression to meet all these business leaders and owners. But the impact has produced good results, because they haven't met any owners or business leaders who talked about tax relief, and that's great. They have also not met any employees who talked about tax relief. Indeed, they have already received their tax relief through the reduction in tax on the trade union quota. But have Norwegian businesses and owners suddenly become silent about the strange wealth tax? In my time in the Financial Committee, I met organizations that each year had this matter at the top of their list of requirements. Why didn't companies and owners want to increase their taxes on wealth, as they have already introduced? Why was it not asked if they would have an additional NOK 2-3 billion in taxes, which they have planned to impose on Norwegian businesses, and whether the owners agreed with the scheme in which the Government itself disagrees? Why didn't they ask about this? You wouldn't. Then you get answers in the woods that you ask. Finally, I would like to mention two points which clearly show the foggy and uncertain industrial policy of this government. SV's spokeswoman has been up here and praised the Søderbergoven in Årdal. She said it's good that they disappear, while the government is now going in to press for them to continue. The center party says on its side that they're not satisfied with the toolbox. Today, in Tønsberg’s Blade, the spokeswoman of the Centre Party in Westfold says that the Minister of Economic Affairs can appear ‘like something murky’, but that the Centre Party will ensure that business policy is good. I don't know if it's with tools from Clas Ohlson or from the joint purchase. It remains to be seen.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-14.ana.ud1633e1082	I would like to say that the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade has today made a statement on our industrial policy, which I fully support. It is not necessary for me to repeat any of what he said. So it is said from the Chair that there is a great deal of confusion about industrial policy. Yeah, it sounds like this in this hall. I guess you'll just have to take note of that. But when we meet the business community in the Business Committee, and we do that very often, at least this policy gets a very positive response. As the Council of State said, industrial policy is concerned, among other things, with: How we as a nation view the challenges of the one-sided industrial sites, and I would like to comment on that a little bit. Here we have at least two – and in some context three – departments’ work areas, as the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs has a primary responsibility for local economics and regional development, and the Ministry of Oil and Energy, which is responsible for energy contracts, and in addition the Ministry of Industry and Trade. It is very important that these three departments interact well, and I note with satisfaction that an interdepartmental group has now been set up to propose more concrete ways in which the state should act in relation to the conversion of one-sided industrial communities. I have expectations for that. But in any case, it is crucial that there is a good dialogue between municipalities, local management in the company and the central ownership of the business. In my view, it is important that the local authorities, together with the corner stone companies, develop work to develop plans and processes for addressing the challenges. Therefore, the local authorities must first, and then we must have an instrument that can contribute financial resources and competences to the extent necessary. It is not primarily we in the main hall that can solve the challenges of these communities. The solutions must be found in an interaction between the corner stone company and local and regional authorities. In particular, it is also important to play on local banking and local business teams. For me, it is important to be clear that there is a great responsibility locally to explore opportunities, sketches and plans and to pool resources locally and regionally. Then, if necessary, the State must contribute what is going to do beyond that. Of course, in a community with a state-owned corner stone company, the state has a very special responsibility. Local communities that for generations have been dependent on a corner stone enterprise have specific challenges in the transformation process. I have personal experience of this, and in order to succeed in the demanding work, it is necessary – in addition to financial resources and good business projects – to local understanding to take time on its own and to accept that the future will be different from the past. Then these communities must have certainty for the big community to set up. Then we can't stand with an empty toolbox, but with a well filled one, with tools that are adapted to the challenges to be tackled. I believe that the red-green government will take care of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-14.ana.ud1633e1093	This has been a very interesting debate, if not very clarifying. We've got some answers and we're left with maybe a little bit more questions. I want to comment on some of the things that have come up. As I said in my main post, I asked the question: do we really need ‘a new and more active industrial policy’ when things are going very well in large parts of Norwegian industry? The representative, Oppebøen Hansen, said in his speech that industrial development has been negative for many years. Yes, that is quite correct, but as I said earlier: in the January 2006 survey from the Statistical Central Bureau, it turns out that the current industrial policy, which has been in place for the last year, has worked. In January, industrial production at the highest level since January 2000, that is a trend that has been very positive, not only in industry in general, but also in industry, which many have said would have very serious problems. So there are several of the representatives of the bad conscience for the cutters who have been doing research and development and on depreciation. Both the Minister of Industry and several representatives from the Red-Green side are trying to explain and say that they have not actually cut. But if it is the case that those who have tried to detect these cut times after time are not good enough witnesses of truth, I would like to quote what Kjell Bjørndalen of the Joint Association said to Today's Business on December 16, 2005: ‘The red-green cut close to 100 million for research and development in the Ministry of Industry budget compared to proposals from the Bondevik Government. There's no big deal, but the wrong way to go in an important area. We are also disappointed that the Bondevik Government's proposal for lower depreciation rates for machinery was deleted." So it's not just us in the opposition who sees this, it's also central people in the business world. So Gullvåg says we're pretty bold enough to try to highlight our policy. When the representative Gullvåg says he has been around in many companies and has heard no more than a company asking for lower taxes, there is reason to ask the representative Gullvåg to come out more. While he himself boasts of having been with us and given tax credits to a single group, there is no interest in business or business. The representative Gullvåg has not been present in all the places in the Norwegian industry and in the individual companies where it is said that the increase in tax applied by the red-greens through a change in depreciation rates, the 1.6 billion, has been pointed over and over again. I hope we get a little bit more clarity in the future, the most dangerous is ambiguity.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-14.ana.ud1633e1111	Let me first say thank you for an interesting debate. I noticed that the previous government parties have a certain wound in their argument. I'm going to think it's going to pass. The question that the interpellant also asks at the end is: do we need a new industrial policy? Then I would like to remind you that they were not very few, the business leaders who said before the election: we need a new business policy. We need an active industrial policy, unlike the passivity of the previous government. They weren't very few, the business leaders. Those who were present at the Annual Conference of the NHO in January were hardly left with the impression that this was a government that did not have an offensive industrial policy, which did not have an offensive north-eastern policy, as an important element in making use of the resources and opportunities available to this country. What we need first of all now is that we put some of the wound behind us, that we are playing along and running for Norwegian business, in order to ensure the value creation in the country and ensure that Norway will also in future become one of the world's best countries to live in. The link between the capacity of society to create and share is at the heart of the work of the majority government to further develop the Norwegian welfare society. Sharing fair also gives greater creative power. Our approach is primarily about partnership between countries and industries in the context of a mixed economy. We provide a good framework for business, and we set up conversion processes. As I said earlier, it's important to have a transition in business. The representative of Sørfönn expressed more of a wish that I would be able to defeat the Minister of Finance. I am a little uncertain about what kind of experience the representative Sørfonn has from other governments. This government is united on an active industrial policy. This also applies to the Minister of Finance. It makes me very sure that we will also be able to create good business policies with good conditions for business in the future. Our industrial policy is that the community is preparing for the transition, and it provides security for business and for value creation. I am pleased with the results we have achieved at Union, in Årdal and in Høyanger. I am pleased that the people affected by the changes that Norwegian business will face in the future feel the security of the big community and community when needed. I am pleased with the agreements that have been reached, where the community also feels the security of the big community. I just remind you that industrial policy is so often. Perhaps one of the main instruments of industrial policy was the increase in free income in the municipalities that we put in place. It contributes to the provision of local communities with opportunities to also set up local business development.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-14.ana.ud1633e1128	The interpellasjos debate is therefore closed.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-14.ana.ud1633e1142	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each lot and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines within the allocated speaking time of up to three lines after speeches from the main speakers of each batch and up to five lines after the statements of the Council of State. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-14.ana.ud1633e1151	The representatives of Sandberg, Sortevik and Holmberg have made a proposal in Document No. 8:6 for 2005-2006. In this proposal, the Government is asked to remove all toll stations, to stop the collection of advance tolls, to cancel the debts of all existing toll companies, to refrain from toll financing of national road projects and to base all future investment and maintenance on state funding. The majority, consisting of all lots except the Advance Party, have chosen to make sure that the Storting follows the Innst. S. No 100 for 2005–2006 and reject this proposal. The representatives of the Progress Party claim in their proposal that eradicating this debt would cost the state about $13 billion. However, several of the large toll schemes in the country are charging directly for the financing of projects. This applies, for example: Oslo, the Tønsberg package and E 39 over Stord. The cost of winding up the 46 toll companies that we had before Christmas would have been between 20 and 25 billion kroner, not 13 billion kroner, as claimed by the Progress Party. If I'm going to prejudge the events a little bit: some of the representatives of the Progress Party will probably come and tell me that the state has money on the book and is getting richer and that we can spend this money. It's true, of course, that the state has money on book, but it's also true that a broad majority of the parties on the Stortinge agree that it's also important to have a healthy economy here in the country. It's not that when we say no to spending even more oil money -- we actually spend 75 billion dollars in the state budget for 2006 -- it's because we want to be bad for the voters. We do it because we believe it is also important to pursue a policy that provides good conditions for industry and low interest rates. It's something that people care a lot about in Norway, but the Progress Party probably doesn't care much about. It is also worth noting that toll companies almost always come as a result of local initiatives. That's not how you can get the impression, that this is something that goes down above the heads of Norwegian municipalities. It is even the case that the Progress Party locally sees that the best solution is often toll financing. Here in Oslo, the transport agency of the Progress Party Peter N. Myhre said he is for the financing of Oslopackakte 3 through toll companies. According to the Address Paper, the Promoting Party’s spokesman for the transport policy, Per Sandberg, has called on his Turkish communities to step in for tolls on their road sections. It is therefore very difficult for me to understand what the Progress Party really thinks about this matter, especially when they write in their principal programme that they want more charges that are direct payments for the use of the road. More direct than tolls can hardly be. Those who have read the comments of the Progress Party on the matter have probably noticed that the Progress Party here highlights its primary proposal for NTP and its action plan. It would therefore be interesting for those outside this room who have the sense of the proposals of the Progress Party, to note that this will mean many billions less to the railway and make the train offer considerably worse. The policy of the Progress Party will frustrate Norwegian railways, both around the big cities and in the districts. In its alternative budget, the Progress Party spends more than $2 billion on the railways. Why is this important if you have to drive into Oslo every day, but don't like tolling? Well, because the section of the Progress Party will lead to people taking the train now being forced to drive a car, and those who are using the road today will get hundreds of thousands more cars to share this section with – in and out of Oslo, to and from work every single day, which I guess won't taste either for the car commuters or the train commuters. The party of progress agreed in the previous period with the Red-Greens for our proposal for the NTP. NTP is an ambitious but realistic programme that ensures balanced investment across the transport sector. This government has already shown its willingness to give priority to transport. In the 2006 budget, we gave 460 million. kr more than the original proposal of the Bondevik II Government. This is more than what the Progress Party achieved throughout its period as a supporting party. The Progress Party still mentions its ambitions for a civil majority government. I believe that over the last period, when the Progress Party had real political power, we have seen that they are not a driving force for transportation or show the ability to get through. Finally, I have some questions that may have to be left unanswered. I wonder why these billions of toll cancellations were not proposed in the State budget proposals of the Progress Party. Is it because the party really doesn't mean it, or is it because the representatives haven't gotten through in their own party? Perhaps the answer is that this money has already been used up in the representative of Hagesetter's proposal to give all the Norwegians a credit card with several thousand dollars for use abroad.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-14.ana.ud1633e1174	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-14.ana.ud1633e1177	To the representative of Wickholm it is to say that there is plenty of oil money. There is plenty of oil money to clear debts on existing toll projects, toll roads that have been used, whether the amount would be NOK 10 billion or NOK 20 billion. That's not the big point. The point is first and foremost to ask Wickholm from the Workers' Party what is in principle an obstacle to choosing such a solution. This is a solution that Stortinget has chosen before, when the debt was extinguished on the Gardermoban. When a researcher in the 2005-2009 Workers' Party programme reads about a concern for the roads and a pressing need to rust up and build new roads. How does the Workers' Party solve that problem?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-14.ana.ud1633e1187	In response to the representative Blackevik's question, I might clarify it and say that I also spent time in my post saying that yes, there are oil money, and there is also a fund dedicated to pensions. When I say we use oil money, it's because we don't want to spend more oil money than we use today, which is 75 billion kroner. The Progress Party disagrees with all the other parties in Stortinget about whether you can spend 10–20–30–100 billion more without having any impact on the Norwegian economy. We disagree with the Progress Party there. We believe that it would have a negative impact on the economy, a negative impact on interest rates, and that it would be much worse for the Norwegian population than if toll companies were to be cancelled.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-14.ana.ud1633e1192	I record that the representative Wickholm is using half his post on the railway and is moving away from what is a topic – reducing or possibly cancelling the debts of the toll companies. I also note that the representative, Mr Wickholm, is quite clear that it is completely impossible, it is not realistic. That is why my challenge to the representative, Mr Wickholm: In the VG today, the representative, Mr Wickholm's own spokesman for transport policy, Mr Torstein Rudihagen, says that it is now time to open the bag of oil money to a historic investment in road construction and transport. Is it so to understand that there is now a division in the fraction of the Workers' Party in the Committee? I also record that Oppland Workers' Party is now doing as the Advance Party and is asking the Government to follow the example of the Progress Party in order to get a lift in transport and build roads. Is it true that Wickholm is alone in the fraction of believing that it is impossible to use oil money to build roads, or is it just a double communication from the Workers' Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-14.ana.ud1633e1199	To answer the representative Sandberg's question about why I am using my post on the railway, I would like to say that it is precisely because the Progress Party so clearly highlights in its comments that they are running from their promises to stand for what they voted for in the Storting, namely the proposal for the NTP, while highlighting their original proposal for the NTP several times in the comment. That's why there's reason to express concern about it. With regard to the use of oil money, Oppland Arbeiderparti clearly says that they want to finance the projects that the representative Sandberg is talking about. It is also true that when the representative refers to the statements of Rudihagen, it is like what is being discussed, a project finance, which the Progress Party has also been in favour of. This is a completely different way of spending money than a lastingly high increase in government budget appropriations.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-14.ana.ud1633e1206	I find it interesting to hear the rapporteur's presentation of the matter, where he was concerned with the great journey promise that this government had given. He was also very concerned that the Progress Party had subsidiaryly backed up on this government's proposal to grant NOK 1 billion more to the road and NOK 1 billion more to the railway. I registered that he also said that they were able to make 460 million. kr. I don't want to call it a very big lift. I am very excited if the representative of Wickholm thinks it is a good boost and in line with the government's and the red-green parties' decision on the national transport plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-14.ana.ud1633e1211	As the representative Hoksrud certainly knows, there was a budget that the red-green government made in less than three weeks. It's good to find 460 million. kr more for transportation I think is quite impressive, when we can compare with the fact that the Progress Party over three years was able to find 450 million. kr. That we were able to find 460 million. kr in three weeks, compared to the fact that the Progress Party was able to find the same in three years, I must say is impressive. I also agree that we want a stronger commitment to transportation than the 460 million. kr. The big fraction and the government are working on a new state budget, and I have great expectations that there will be a significant investment in transportation.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-14.ana.ud1633e1219	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-14.ana.ud1633e1222	The starting point of the Party is established as to who is responsible for the construction of the road. We refer to Section 12 of the Road Code, which says that the State has a responsibility for the infrastructure. We also deal with what is said there about the state, the municipality and the state to finance. I have recorded that there will be a lot of debate about whether it is NOK 10 billion or NOK 25 billion that is the right amount. I think that the Progress Party has ensured it in a good way. Therefore, I would like to point out that it is factual error in the vote when the majority of the committee points out that it is NOK 25 billion. The proposal is quite clear that it is the debt that exists per year. 1 January 2006, we operate with. Here I would like to comment on what the representative, Mr Wickholm, said in his main post and in the change of line, in which he called for the commitment of the Progress Party to our alternative state budget. This proposal to cancel the toll was made late in 2005 and prior to the promotion of the alternative state budget. With regard to the use of tolls, I have been clearly informed by the Council of State that tolls remain only additional funding for road construction. That's when I get a little confused, because if you take the three toll projects we've been through in Stortinget this year, the Bergen programme, the Hardanger bridge and Finnfast – and if you take the Atlantic tunnel along with you – the state's share is as low as 25 p.m. In that case, it is not possible to argue that tolls should be a supplementary scheme. Then the use of tolls is much more than that. I also note that in response to the Ministry Committee, it is stated that the 2006-2009 action programme envisages the following distribution between tolls and state resources: in the case of tribal roads, 12 billion DKK comes from the state, and 6 billion DKK will be tolls – I am rounding a little. For the rest of the national roads, $8 billion comes from the state and $13 billion from tolls. And in the case of racial protection, a little over $1 billion comes from the state and a little over 100 million. kr from tolls. Overall, this action programme would indicate that the State will pay NOK 22.6 billion, while tolls amount to NOK 19.8 billion. For me, this is no longer about supplementary funding. Then we are about to get a crossroads where toll financing receives a greater share of the financing of road projects than the efforts of the state. That, I think, is an important point to take into account when discussing road financing. If there's no movement in the government, there's some movement in the grassroots in the other parties. It is a major initiative from the centre party grassroots to follow the Progress Party in the argument about using some more of the country's profits. It is also a movement in the Workers' Party that I have registered, which is very interesting, which actually comes at the initiative of bigots representatives, and I record that the Right is actually now signaling – at least it was done by the representative of Greece in a certain TV programme yesterday – that it is now going to be a massive lift for road construction. We hope, of course, that will give us results, but we'll wait and see. Finally, when the majority in the committee rejects this proposal, it is primarily due to factual errors, as I have said. So it's not about $20 to 25 billion. The majority also refers to Petter N. Myhre and that initiatives now come from local teams. The question that this majority has to ask is why these initiatives come from local communities. It's simply because you don't see any other solution, and the state is simply running a blackmail policy. Local initiatives are based on the following: if we are to get rid of the first 30–40 years, we have to spend tolls. I stop by promoting the proposals of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-14.ana.ud1633e1243	The representative Per Sandberg has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-14.ana.ud1633e1248	This debate is primarily about financing road projects, so it may be interesting to go to the Progress Party programme to try to clarify how the Progress Party will finance future road projects in Norway. The Progress Party writes in its programme that they will reduce and eliminate the one-off fee, the annual fee and the registration fee. With the State budget of the Progress Party, the drivers would still pay at least DKK 35 billion in so-called car-realted taxes in 2006. Why, then, did the representatives not propose the removal of these fees last autumn? When does the representative see that the Progress Party completely eliminates these charges, because it is certainly the removal of these charges that is the policy of the Progress Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-14.ana.ud1633e1257	The progress party is quite clear that when the drivers are charged over SEK 52 billion by the state, we believe that we are approaching a gap point, and we have done so many, many years ago. The Progress Party strongly believes that a reduction in these charges does not require a substantial increase in the cost to the country. That means that we get a renewal of the car park, which today, I understand, has an average age of 10.2 years. We get more modern cars with technical equipment that is good for the environment. We get reduced loads on our roads, and one gets less accidents and injuries when one gets safer cars. I think that the expenditure for the state itself – just that we actually have social expenditure of nearly 28 billion kroner on traffic damage and accidents – is likely to be considerably reduced by reducing these charges.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-14.ana.ud1633e1262	The Progress Party refers to other cases of debt cancellation, and I expect you here to aim for the Fly train. In my opinion, this is a bad comparison. Toll companies are private and publicly owned limited liability companies. My question is therefore whether the party has assessed legal relationships relating to the precedent of other ASs, by deleting any debt in private and semi-public companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-14.ana.ud1633e1267	When we refer to the Right's own argument, rhetoric and proposals in connection with the Flytrain, it is because the Right at that time proposed – as the Workers' Party and the SV at that time were a little skeptical – that the total amount of appropriations of about 7.4 billion would be kept out of the calculation of indicators for the state of the Norwegian economy. That's what the debate is about when we want to spend some more of the oil money, also to reduce the debt at existing toll stations. That's the exact same thing. When we propose this, the argument from the outgoing government, and especially from the Right, is that there will be an increase in interest rates and pressure in the Norwegian economy. That's the only argument we've met up to today's date in relation to our proposals. We use the example of the Fly train, which was also on the right at that point. There is no real difference here whether there is pressure in the Norwegian economy or not.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-14.ana.ud1633e1274	The Soria Moria Declaration states that we should have a higher commitment to transport, including: provide project funding just to come up with some of the criticisms from the Progress Party. But the issue of the Progress Party is a long way off. The infrastructure that the Government wants is both road and rail. After all, the progress part cuts on the railway and thus reduces the place on the road. In fact, today both truck owners and bus companies say that they want fewer cars on the road, so that one should have better space for collective provision. Is it not an idea that the Progress Party must gradually begin to look at in relation to the policy of the Progress Party? Finally, we are going to be in charge of having the car list as a dairy, but the Progress Party has used the car list as a dairy for the 15 billion kroner taken from the car list in its 2006 budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-14.ana.ud1633e1281	First of all, I understand that the representative is concerned with the Progress Party and the Railway. That is why we showed the willingness to make a compromise when it came to the national transport plan. If the red-green option got NOK 1 billion more in the year to the railway, it was OK for us, but then we would have NOK 1 billion on the way. We are quite clear on our rail profile: we want a forward-looking railway that will be allowed to exist and compete where it is competitive, by the way, the same as the NSB's vision. But it is clear that with today's geography – unless SV wants to change it – it is 76 pst. the carriage of goods by lorry is less than 5 km in transport distance. It's just 5 pst. having a transport distance of more than 20 km. Then it's not going by rail. It's completely impossible with the railways, if you don't have the policy of starting to shine across the country. I don't think this government has the intention to do that either. Therefore, the NSB must be allowed to bet where they are competitive, and it is the Progress Party willing to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-14.ana.ud1633e1288	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-14.ana.ud1633e1291	When the Progress Party stands alone on its proposal here today, it is because the proposal lacks economic realism and illustrates a lack of coherence in the Party's economic policy. You elegantly lift the economic laws of gravity and invite you to a big economic party without taking the bill or telling you where to cover it. If we had in the Right had NOK 20-25 billion more for this sector, we would have built a road for them. We are more in this Chamber who agree with the Progress Party that we need to get considerably more funding for road construction. The right has a crystal clear demand from its national meeting and the big shot program, and we intend to follow that up. I am pleased to see that the party of the Council of State also has the same attitude and places commercial investment in the toolbox as one of the most important tool. It is called general framework conditions and has full support from the Right. Procedural Party Document No However, 8 proposals here today are not of such a nature that they are suitable for gathering. The party here adopts popular positions at state level to resolve local and regional companies from a debt obligation they have assumed and serve under the assumptions set out. With the good help of the media, the party tries to create the impression that debt financing is irresponsible and unusual for public and even private projects in society, which of course is not the case. Rather than saving the amount in advance, it may be very wise to finance an investment to get a faster return, then to invest. For toll projects, I think this is a very little desirable solution. The cost of capital is weighted against the cost of waiting. In today's interest rate market, loans are provided with guarantees close to the NIBOR interest rate level, i.e. approximately at the level of the price rise. This gives a completely different image than some media, and the Progress Party has tried to describe it. The party of progress claims that they focus more on road construction than any other party. However, the check is that the lot is against toll financing and, in principle, does not support this form of user involvement. The Progress Party prefers road construction to be financed exclusively from the tax note. If we combine the contribution of toll companies to road construction in the 2006 budget, this amounts to the same amount as the Progress Party adds to its budget proposal and claims that this represents a major effort. The point is that once the Progress Party has used its billions to replace the construction contributions of the toll companies, there is nothing left to the other bet of the party. That is why this is not a matter of hope. The funny thing is that you give the impression that the lot is for the projects when they are adopted, cf. Hardanger brown now last. But here they have premises in their proposal that would not realize the project, at best given a postponement. Toll projects, however, are often complex financing solutions. These are wanted locally and regionally, so you can simply not say that you are in favour of the project, but the way it is solved. This is simply not the solution that local authorities and policy-makers have put in place as realistically. When you see the next round, the local companies and their governments, who assume a considerable responsibility and a role in building society, get out of control. A strange paradox is that we from the Progress Party, which is in favour of private solutions and against state override, hear demands for state operations and takeovers as the only response to challenges facing this industry. In countries where the Progress Party often draws inspiration from, for example: The U.S., you've gone in the opposite direction, made the companies completely private, as concessionaires who compete for the tasks. This has also become a common organisation here in Europe. Another paradox is that the toll projects for which toll party politicians are locally in favour and are involved and initiate, realised with tolls, for example those mentioned earlier today. The explanation of this is perhaps just that these local party politicians are in position and experience that no tasks are being solved or society is being built with light rhetoric and popular attitudes without taking full responsibility. Another expression of this is the recognition of real policy, which I believe the Progress Party is wise to approach whether they intend to be in government in three and a half years' time.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-14.ana.ud1633e1309	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-14.ana.ud1633e1312	It is gratifying to see that the Right is with the government parties and rejects the proposal of the Progress Party. However, the number of trustees in the Right has been increasing for government cooperation with the Progress Party after the next major elections. When the Progress Party promotes proposals of the kind we are dealing with today, is the representative from the Right calmed down in view of possible future government cooperation with Sandberg and the Progress Party, or does the representative see that cooperation with the Progress Party can be a challenge in the field of transport?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-14.ana.ud1633e1317	I think all coalition governments have a challenge, and I think especially the sitting coalition government is cleaning this up by day. It is that when several parties with different views go into a government, their views have to be weighed against each other, and one has to compromise. In response to the representative's question, I would like to say the same thing as I concluded my statement, that I believe that there is a somewhat more realistic policy in relation to the economic gravity of a government position.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-14.ana.ud1633e1322	I record that the representative claims that the Progress Party is irresponsible because we want to spend more oil money. Then I show that Professor Dag Bjørnland at BI School of Commerce says that it is entirely possible to use more oil money. I also think it is important to bring it with me, and perhaps the Right-Representative should have brought it. So I want to read a little bit from the Right Program: ‘Rights will reduce the overall tax burden on vehicles and will continue to be restrictive for the use of toll financing. Toll projects shall be based on initiatives by local authorities.’;» So far in the period, we have dealt with four projects that are all financed using tolls, with a share of tolls of 62 pst. I wonder how this rhymes with the Right Program, but it may be at the last point that you don't want to follow up with state funds and therefore expect local politicians to get on the road.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-14.ana.ud1633e1334	These were two questions. I'll try to get time to answer both of them. The right also wants to spend more money on the road. Let it be clear, I also said that clearly in my post. But we think it's a bad solution to use these possible means to clear debts. We don't get any more way for that. As far as the Right Programme is concerned, the representative should read a little further, because we are restrictive about tolls. This shall in any case be done after it has been requested locally or regionally. We have a great deal of respect for local and regional authorities, and when they put together packages that also burden them in a way that shows that they really want the project to be carried out, we think that we should support it here in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-14.ana.ud1633e1343	Let me first comfort the representative Johansen and make sure that the Progress Party will become a challenger, no matter what, if there are government issues. I must also be allowed to say to the representative Halleraker that the right wing might not count as much if you are going to discuss government cooperation with the Progress Party – at least not according to what is being said here. If that's how the Right wants a collection around traffic and especially road construction, I think they're going to stick to their own program. That is my question to the representative, because the Right Programme says that they want the maintenance and protection of roads to be significantly increased. And my question is, what's significant? Is that significant what the representative of Greece said in a television programme yesterday, comparing in-country investment with DKK 240 billion for infrastructure? If there's a considerable lift right now want to discuss, then the Progress Party would like to be involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-14.ana.ud1633e1350	First, I want to clear up a manifest misunderstanding. I didn't say "Right gravity," I said "Economic gravity." And it's gravitational that we all have to relate to, actually. As far as the Right Programme is concerned, I think it is gratifying that we in the Chamber today are getting so much attention that the Right in its programme has said that we want to do a lot more. That's what I think is good, and we'll know how to promote it here in this room. We have also started a work to see how far we can go in this field, and if it is possible to use more oil money than we do today. It's a work we're looking forward to with great anticipation, and we're going to make sure that we also get to know in this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-14.ana.ud1633e1359	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-14.ana.ud1633e1362	It could have been tempting to comment on the last round between the Right and the Advance Party and possible – I think I get to underline possible – future government cooperation. It didn't sound very obvious, I have to say, in the line change that just ended. It is no surprise that we on the part of the Christian People's Party do not support this proposal. But I must also say that for someone who is then a temporary spokesman for transport policy, with the original seat of the Financial Committee, it has also been interesting to hear how many billions have been cleared up in promises already in the short time we have debated the matter. Then I would rather wish the major fraction of the Workers' Party to be happy to snort a government budget, which the case rapporteur had in mind in his contribution. It may well be that the government as a college has a bigger challenge than the major fraction has in that way. The Christian People’s Party – and I would like to say many with us – sees that the proposals that lie here will make it almost impossible to implement the National Transport Plan’s action programme for the period ahead of us. Several major projects in Norway would, in fact, be at risk if the proposal in the submitted document were to be adopted. It's not likely that there's a big difference when you listen to the figures of the Progress Party when it comes to transportation in this room, and those who take responsibility around in Municipality-Norway. In the city we are, it's up to us to get Oslopackak 3 where, as far as I've understood, the Progress Party's transport agency Peter N. Myhre is quite ready to set up another toll station in this city to ensure that you get enough dollars in to realize the necessary road projects, and also projects in public transport. The main objective of the Christian People's Party with transport policy is to develop a safe, environmentally friendly and efficient transport system. Therefore, where tolls allow the launching and realisation of good, necessary transport projects, we are not in principle opposed to it either. However, we would like to emphasise that it is local initiative and decisions that should be the main basis for a decision in this room on toll projects. In such cases, municipal and county policies must assess the project, make their decisions, and therefore recommend the Stortinget what they consider to be the right decision. In other words, projects shall have strong local anchoring. That's how we want it to still be. The size should not impose any tolling arrangements. Tolls shall not appear as an additional State charge. In this context, I refer to the majority comments made by the previous Committee on Transport in the wording of the National Transport Plan. I believe that the following comment remains valid: ‘The majority of the Committee, all the non-participating members of the Progress Party, have noted increased interest in launching toll projects throughout the country. However, the majority have noted that the level of infrastructure toll financing varies greatly from state to state and from region to region.The majority are asking the Government to follow closely so that not individual sections are so expensive to pass for both private and business people that there is a handicap to business development and bus services.The majority believe that toll projects should continue to be based on local government support.’ In other words, the county priorities of drawing up the action programmes will determine the extent of tolls on the other national road network. I have noticed that the progress part of the setting writes the following: ‘These members consider that the political majority deliberately wants to use the drivers as a dairy cow for the state, and that the political will to invest in the field of transport is nothing more than political flocculation.’ I guess it's a rhetoric I've met to a great extent primarily in school election debates. And there might be reason to refer from a director's article in this dinner paper: ‘It’ – the party –’can choose the popular position and move towards the unpopular, without having to defend the whole of its policy. It may appeal to anyone who needs more public support, while at the same time promising tax relief to others. Even if it does not work together, economically, it is effective.’ Well, that's essentially the challenge for the other parties in this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-14.ana.ud1633e1397	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-14.ana.ud1633e1400	I'm recording that Peter N. Myhre is a recurring name in the debate. I also record that Peter N. Myhre has been used in the setting, as proof that the Advance Party is also for tolls. I have had repeated talks with Peter N. Myhre, and I have had many conversations with other local politicians in the Progress Party and in other parties. My questions are: Has the Christian People's Party ever considered why these local initiatives come? Why is it that more and more local politicians see the need to implement toll financing? Why does one add up to the state's pulling out more and more? In Gudbrandsdalen, five rapporteurs now want to do so. The background is that they won't be calm and watch more and more people get killed in their neighborhood. It's a moment that the Christian People's Party should take inwards. In February this year, 19 were killed. This should at least lead to a Christian People's Party wanting more bet.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-14.ana.ud1633e1412	I thought the Progress Party would be pleased to be quoted by prominent transport politicians from the Progress Party. This indicates that you have an influence, which the lot is otherwise seeking to achieve. I think this is really about a realistic assessment of what a country's economy is capable of, and that the local politicians of the Progress Party may realize that something needs to be done, one sometimes has to have a split layer between state crowns and crowns that we all contribute with, such as. Through the Oslo Packages we've had, no. 1, point 2 and now maybe soon no. 3rd@item: inlistbox We do that in order to improve road solutions, but also – and I would like to stress that from the Christian People's Party – to help us get better public transport, which means that the environment in this city too can be better than it is today.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-14.ana.ud1633e1419	I registered that the representative said he would not force any toll projects. Does that mean that you can't build roads in this country? As far as I know, the Christian People's Party has supported the National Transport Plan, which says that new road projects should be financed with 50 pst. tolls. It might be interesting to know how the Christian People's Party looks at it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-14.ana.ud1633e1424	I am firmly convinced of what I said that when we talk about toll financing, it must first of all be initiated locally through the decisions taken locally. And that's pretty much the time of all the decisions taken in this room on toll financing issues, they're actually locally initiated. So there's no new policy from the Christian People's Party, and we stand firm for it too.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-14.ana.ud1633e1429	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-14.ana.ud1633e1432	The Community between the Progress Party and the Centre Party is very small in many fields. But within transport, we have the same thing in common that we want to increase state investment. This showed the compromise on the national transport plan, on which the Soria Moria Declaration is based. That's how far we came that time, and I actually think it's the longest Progress Party has come in for transportation ever. The goal of the Centre Party is to realize the most possible transport project, and we have a pragmatic approach to different funding methods. We like local creativity, and we see that our politicians are local and regional drivers to realize the tasks. Fairly rare, we find progress party politicians in the same role. But once the projects have been completed and are to be realised, there are several examples of progress party politicians joining. But we see that the central grips of the Progress Party make such connection more difficult. The slope causes the Progress Party to appear on the sidebar in traffic debates in states and municipalities in a number of ways. So back to what concerns the cancellation of tolls. When we look at such a system, this will be a very unfair system. Local initiatives have led to the realisation of a number of issues other than funding through the national transport plan. Tolls, etc. has enabled them to jump forward in the queue. Locally, they have understood that this could not be done without taking on tolls over time. It would be completely wrong if these projects were now to be covered by the toll charge. An increased state investment must benefit the priority projects, not those that are rumored in the queue. It is the opinion of the Centre that an increase in government spending should be in line with the priorities of the National Transport Plan. For me, who is mostly in the municipality and county, this is actually a reasonable unreal debate. When a longer time has worked to resolve local and county affairs, it is untrue to come to the Storting and debate the forgiveness of tolls. We see the big unsolved problems that lie ahead of us, and think that the most important thing is to get on with solving new tasks. We are alarmed by a tactic of making promises in the election campaign, so to speak, to present the business of the Stortinget without at all trying to create multiple numbers for the cause. It may appear that the tactic is to count the lost hits and tell you what the progress has been entered for. The other party would rather profile themselves with what things they've been doing to realize. I would like the Progress Party to listen more to its representatives in municipalities and counties who have been supporting road projects with tolls. I can take a couple of examples of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-14.ana.ud1633e1447	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-14.ana.ud1633e1450	I think the representative Vatne started his speech very well, because there is no doubt that the Progress Party and the Centre have been united in many communities, in many districts too, for that part, and also here in the house in relation to the desire for greater effort in terms of infrastructure. We have agreed that the best means of regional policy is to build roads. I would like to ask the representative if we still agree – I hope and believe – that road construction is the best means of regional policy we have. My second question concerns what the representative raised, and which several have registered, is that there are more and more of the local politicians of the Progress Party who are now working for the toll project. I would like to have it documented, because I think I am one of those representatives from the Progress Party who have very good contact with the local politicians and state politicians in the party – we had a national government meeting this weekend – and I have not registered one of our local or state politicians who support tolls.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-14.ana.ud1633e1457	I'm very much in agreement with the fact that it's betting on transportation, among other things. building roads is a very important regional policy instrument and, where it is the case, the Centre Party shall continue to invest in the selenium. So for a toll project, it might not be that easy to discover them. But as a spokesman, I know that there are several spokespersons working on projects that can only be financed by tolls, as they are now. I could name an example, but I'm not going to bring them up. They don't get on the path, because the party's central hold is that they're against tolls.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-14.ana.ud1633e1464	I can be glad to have the representative Vatne quote a little from the program of the Central Party. ‘The Central Party considers that the financing of new road projects should be made via public budgets and is sceptical of a trend towards an increasing number of toll projects. Today, too much transport investment is based on user financing.’» The development we see with this government, in which the Central Party is involved, goes in the opposite direction to what the Center Party has delineated in its program and has probably gone to the election. As my co-representatives mentioned earlier, we have dealt with four projects in Stortinget with a very modest state co-financing, and a user funding of over 60 pst. Is this a development representative Vatne happy with on behalf of the Center Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-14.ana.ud1633e1474	As the representative knows, in connection with the national transport plan, the Centre’s goal was to increase the number of public investment in road transport. We came as far as we came, and we hope to realize as much as possible in this period. In the further development, one should also see that the Centre Party is in the first line when it comes to betting on government licenses. Locally, you still want to create multiple road projects. And when local initiatives come, we want to support them and get them out, so that roads can be realized more quickly in the local environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-14.ana.ud1633e1481	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-14.ana.ud1633e1485	If the Left had had an extra NOK 20-25 billion for good purposes, I'm pretty sure we wouldn't have priorityed eradicating debts for road projects that are all built. It would have been better to build more new roads and further improve public transport. Education and social policy, too, are the major unmet needs that the Left would give priority to providing room for new growth in the state budget. Of course, we would have liked to have given money over a low shoe and exempted all the car lists from annoying tolls, just as it would have been opportunistic to reduce other taxes and taxes and, at the same time, increase public expenditure for all good purposes. We don't do that, as the vast majority of parties don't, because we don't want the consequences of a running economy. No one deserves it. Winning goes up in spinning, both for public and households. Therefore, this becomes a debate more on economic policy and the rule of action than on transport policy. The rule of action is not an expression of an exact science, but, in the Left's view, the best professional and political judgement as to where the imbalance in the economy goes. It is handled with wit and flexibility, as the previous government did. The problem with the line of the Progress Party is the attitude to take it, and you take it. I agree with Minister of Finance Kristian Halvorsen who said that no matter where other parties use oil money, the Progress Party will invest at least 30 billion kroner. Obviously it's popular to give people the impression that they can get both bag and bag in the world's richest country. But the Left chooses not to join the Freedom of the Advance Party. It is strange that the Progress Party prioritizes toll companies, but for example. not to municipalities that have important welfare tasks to care for and that may often have encountered financial difficulties unscrupulously. The main point, however, is that both municipalities, transport and all other good purposes must be subject to an overall assessment, also called priority. That is what politics is all about, but the Progress Party is trying to rise above. The nomination refers to the national transport plan and the Progress Party is entitled to indicate the current government party's lifting break in that context. The left and the other previous government parties could say, what did we say? After an overall opposition, the government exceeded NOK 30 billion in the NTP. It will be interesting to see the Government return to its own lag from 2005–2006 and, in addition, to the planned increase in 2007, when the government budget for the next year is to be presented. It is also one side of this matter that we have a budget regulation and some political rules for budgetary management as well as for toll financing. The latter is about getting ahead faster with new projects if there is local willingness for user funding. At these premises, projects have been adopted, while those who have to wait for full funding from the state have to wait. It would be totally wrong if the order of the projects were to change suddenly through such a debt restructuring decision, which should equally benefit other and new projects. As long as the Progress Party does not have a majority in this Chamber, there is a certain framework for the State budgets within which the Storting must give priority. The billions the Progress Party will use today are therefore not found anywhere other than in the party's own imaginative budgets. If the proposal were to be adopted, therefore, it would lead to money within a total framework for projects already carried out, leading to fewer and worse roads, not more and better. The left agrees that the number of toll projects must be limited, and we must not be allowed to inflation in toll stations along our main roads. However, it still has to be such that local initiatives can take precedence over good projects. The fact is that toll financing has contributed to a substantial boost for road and public transport beyond what has otherwise been possible. There are sensible policies, as well as increasing the annual government budget appropriations within the framework of the capacity and balance of the economy. In the practical everyday life in Oslo, in Os and elsewhere, the Progress Party has also contributed to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-14.ana.ud1633e1506	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-14.ana.ud1633e1509	I fully agree with the representative's tendency that everything boils down to an economic issue and the rule of action. I also register that the representative Tenden fears inflation and various things. It brings me back to the debate on the Fly train and the Gardermoban. My simple question to the representative is, where is the devastating effect on the economy of writing off $10 billion in debts on roads that are already built? Where does the pressure in the Norwegian economy come from? Where does the inflation pressure come from when these roads are already built? Think again about the Gardermoban and the Flytrain, where there were no reactions, and it was about NOK 8 billion.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-14.ana.ud1633e1516	First of all, I don't want to relate to the 10 billion. We in the Left believe that this is an additional 20-25 billion kroner. So the Party of Advancement is different to the rule of action than the other parties are. I personally find it regrettable, because it is difficult, not to say impossible, to discuss politics with parties that have more money to spend all the time.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-14.ana.ud1633e1521	I did not get an answer to my question! I would like to repeat: where does the devastating effect of these 10 billion come from? I also ask the representative Tenden to look at the proposal. I get a certain feeling that the representative Tenden is now running and provides incorrect factual information. The proposal concerns the debt recorded at the tolling stations per year. 1 January 2006. There's a pretty clear answer: it's a little bit above NOK 10 billion. But again – for the third time: where does the devastating effect on the economy come from depreciating 10 billion DKK on roads that are already built?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-14.ana.ud1633e1530	The representative has understood the question, and doesn't have to ask it three times. I want to repeat my answer. It is regrettable that the Progress Party is constantly dealing with a different rule of action from that of the other parties on the Stortinget. I'm sorry. I would like the Progress Party to respect the same rule of action, and we could start discussing politics and priorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-14.ana.ud1633e1537	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-14.ana.ud1633e1540	I am pleased that the majority in the Committee today proposes to propose in Document No. 8:6 is rejected. I believe that the estimated economic impact of the proposal is much greater than the proposals put forward by the proposers. I would like to stress that initially all investment in the national road network here in the country is a state responsibility, as it also follows from the first paragraph of Section 20 of the Road Law. However, because fiscal considerations mean that the room for funding from the State budget is not unlimited, local and regional initiatives over much of the country have made tolls an additional form of funding, as opened up in the second paragraph of Section 20. This has resulted in a series of projects that would have taken a long time to realize if they were financed with ordinary licenses. A previous realisation of the projects provides faster social security and prosperity gains. For business, this could entail reduced transport costs in time and improve regularity. However, I would like to stress that all toll projects in this country are to be built on local initiative. Local policy decisions shall be taken before project approval. This is a principle that I will also follow in the future. Toll companies’ invoices show that the total toll due at the end of 2004 was approximately DKK 10.8 billion. There is nothing to suggest that the total debt will be reduced in the next few years, although of course each project will be paid down. We must bear in mind that tolls are used to finance new road projects, which provide safer and better road solutions where a local has chosen such funding instead of waiting for additional ones in time. In addition, interest on debts arises because most projects borrow to obtain optimal progress and economy in the construction project. I am afraid that following the line proposed by the proposers will have a major impact on road investment investment in the period 2006-2009. In many of the road projects currently planned, external resources form an important part of the funding. All in all, the external means are tolls. Estimates show that the cost of liquidating the 46 toll schemes will be NOK 20 to 25 billion, given that all loan debts will be paid, all planned loan liabilities to complete projects that have been started, will be paid and lost toll revenue that will be transferred directly to construction will be compensated. I share the view of the majority in the Committee that the proposal would make it impossible to implement the action plan to the national transport plan and that several major transport projects in Norway would be at risk if the proposal were adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-14.ana.ud1633e1557	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-14.ana.ud1633e1560	There are two things I would like to challenge the Council of State on. One is the principle of debt cancellation. We can, for example: Take away the amount for a moment and say it's the principal pipe that applies, whether it's NOK 5 billion or NOK 25 billion. What are the economic disasters caused by the cancellation of debt on installations that are actually built and put into operation? The second is this: In the Centre's own program, which also has a small opening, it says: ‘Toll projects may be a supplement where local initiatives are taken to do so.’;» But what is “a supplement” for the Center Party when we see that in the first four projects that Stortinget has dealt with, the toll ratio – the user share – is over 60 pst. and the state contribution of about 20 pst. ?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-14.ana.ud1633e1572	Today's proposal must be seen in a slightly wider context than simply deleting the liability of the agreed toll projects where the toll stations have already arrived, for each of them is separated between the toll stations that stand there today and the toll projects, for example. are adopted and where toll stations are to be created? Therefore, it is completely wrong, as the Progress Party does, to concentrate only on the toll stations operating per. 1 January. We must, as I did well in my answer, also take care of those who come in the future. We actually have to have a principle relationship with this. Either we have a system of tolls, or we'll have to dismantle the system of tolls. Then it can't be that a project agreed five years ago will be cleared, while what is agreed here for a couple of weeks ago, does not come under the same system. For us, this is also a fundamental question, where a majority in Stortinget has said that toll financing should be met when a local initiative takes place.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-14.ana.ud1633e1578	I tried to ask myself a question in a reply to the proposers instead without getting an answer to my question. I went into the problem of debt and the principle of the state going into and erasing debt in private and semi-public AS. The flight train has been used as a reference. I also said that I didn't think it was relevant, because we know that there was a debt related to a subproject within the NSB. Since then, the airline was privatised and now operates its own operating company. Can the Council of State give any consideration here on short notice on the legal and, perhaps we should say, creating precedent on this issue?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-14.ana.ud1633e1583	It surprises me that the proposers could not do any good for the principal aspects of the proposal they themselves have made. I noticed, as the representative Halleraker, that he did not receive an answer to that. Now this is a short warning for me to come up with legal reflections, but on a principle I find it problematic that one of the Stortinges goes into and overrules the operation of private and semi-public companies, and to the extent that it was possible for a majority to go in for the proposal, I, as the responsible State Council, had to look at the legal consequences and, of course, also discussed the principle of this. I have not done that, as there has not been any sign that this proposal is about to collect a number in Stortinget. But that these are some sides that of course also have to be considered, it's despondent.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-14.ana.ud1633e1590	It seems like the Council of State and everyone else is talking about local initiative and decisions, and that there is a prerequisite for this government to be positive about setting up and being positive about the projects. Then my question is to the Council of State: If you have projects that are locally initiated and local politicians don't want to be tolled, will the Council of State and the Government also be positive for that type of project – that is, without the use of toll funding?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-14.ana.ud1633e1597	In contrast to the Progress Party, the Centre Party has over many years of responsible governance both in municipalities and in counties as well as in different governments. Of course, we are positive about road projects that the state is funding, but the agreed frameworks within the various budgets have not been high enough to cover all the needs that one has had locally. I do not see any contradiction between being positive about following up local toll financing initiatives and being positive about projects that are fully funded by the state. I'm not quite sure if I understand the question correctly, but if that was the case, I don't see the big problem in relation to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-14.ana.ud1633e1604	I have a question for the Council of State, which it is very important for me to get an answer. This concerns project financing, which the government parties are very concerned about at the moment. Will project funding mean breaking the rule of action and spending more on oil money?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-14.ana.ud1633e1609	Project funding can be several different things. A project finance bill is currently in progress. There is a cooperation between the Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of Finance, which defines what this government is going to contribute to project financing, what type of model it might choose, and whether to give priority to it in the 2007 budget. That work has not been completed in any way. I can therefore not answer the question to the representative Tenden in detail, but the previous government, where also the representative's party was a member, broke the rule of action with tens of billions of dollars. I do not think that project financing should in any way go beyond the main objectives of the action rule.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-14.ana.ud1633e1614	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-14.ana.ud1633e1619	There is a long way between life and learning for the Progress Party in the transport policy. In this case, the Progress Party proposes to cancel the debts of toll-financed transport projects. In its comments, the Progress Party focuses on ‘the political majority’ – i.e. all except the Progress Party – ‘is not willing to return a greater share of what is demanded in taxes and charges on cars, to drivers in the form of better roads and better infrastructure’. The Progress Party further states that: ‘the political majority deliberately wants to use the motorists as a dairy cow for the state and that the political will to invest in the field of transport is nothing more than political flocculation’. If we look at the 2006 draft budget of the Progress Party, we see that the Progress Party will include DKK 35 billion, excluding VAT, in car charges. Of these, the Progress Party will spend 19 billion kroner on transport. What does the Progress Party spend the rest of the money they charge on car fees? At least it's not the purpose of transportation, and you can wonder if the drivers here are being led behind the light of the rhetoric of the Progress Party. It seems that the Progress Party in its budget deliberately wants to use the drivers as dairy cows to finance other purposes, and one can wonder whether the Progress Party's commitment to transport is a political speck that builds up under the political debate on which the Progress Party focuses so much. While this proposal is being promoted by the Progress Party in Stortinget, we read in the Address Paper that Per Sandberg from the Progress Party, the head of the Transport and Communications Committee, encourages its structures to apply for the grant of toll-funded projects in order to finance the needs for the development of transport projects. Sandberg's colleagues in the Progress Party, among others from Oslo, Os, Tønsberg and Sogn and Fjordane, are also in favour of toll financing for transport projects in order to implement the necessary investment measures. What does the Progress Party actually think about toll financing for transport projects when reality goes into them, and they are responsible? Is the focus on the government paying, just a political speck that becomes visible when they are in charge? Here the Progress Party has revealed that there is a long way between life and learning in the party. They say something in the opposition, but they do something completely different in the position, when all the wishes are to be financed.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-14.ana.ud1633e1633	The framework for road construction in Norway is set here in this room. This is where the struggle to get enough government funding for the state task of road construction needs to be carried out. Local initiatives, supported by a number of speakers, are local policy initiatives. Locally, there is considerable resistance to toll-funded projects among the population. We have had a debate that makes us wonder whether the proposal and comments of the Progress Party have been read at all. The most special thing is maybe the problematization of the representative Halleraker from the right. I should have liked to have seen the toll company refuse to pay off its debts through state acquisition. I have noticed that the Council of State believes that we as a party do not relate in principle to what is mentioned in the proposal. Again I wonder whether comments and suggestions have been read. We have put forward a proposal in three points. Item No 1 is about specifically erasing debts on installations that have been put into use and that users pay for every single day, because the state has not set up and paid its bill – simply, clearly and correctly. It can be done without major dramatic and economic consequences. The proposals in paragraphs 1 and 2 of this motion for a resolution are as follows: 2 and 3 are proposals for discussion. This means that the cases will come back to Stortinget. Item No 2 concerns the state financing of toll-financed road, tunnel and bridge installations approved by the Stortinget and under construction. We want a case back. In this way, Dag Terje Andersen and Torstein Rudihagen from the Workers' Party can have a broad and good opportunity to discuss the use of oil money on more roads than E6. It is also the case that, in paragraph 3 of the proposal, we are asking for a separate case on how the state can cover the maintenance run on the tribal and national road network, which is now NOK 12 billion, which increases by half a billion dollars each year, and which makes more and more people run unsafe. But also that proposal is designed to bring a case back to the Grand Duchy, so that, through a wide-ranging discussion in the Grand Duchy, we can have different solutions and proposals for action. Neither will the other parties contribute. There have been quite different things here from what is in the proposal, and it is such that everyone who chooses a toll solution is increasingly flocking together and rejecting increased government funding for the state task of road construction and road maintenance.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-14.ana.ud1633e1648	I think it has been interesting to hear this debate so far today. Representatives from the other parties are keen to talk about the local initiative, how good the local initiative is. It may seem that local politicians around this country think this is a very fine way of arranging a new transport in Norway. Actually, it's not. I still have the pleasure of meeting a local politician who thinks there's all right with tolls, and that you want to go in for toll financing in their region. I hope that the common perception here at Stortinget is not that local politicians believe that having tolls is a very important thing, and that you are positive about it. But then I have to go back to the case rapporteur and his opening remarks. He claimed that this government had only three weeks to submit proposals for the budget. I hope and believe that the government believed that something should be done after the elections in September, and that it has actually had a little more time than three weeks to make the so-called huge investment in the field of transport, as the rapporteur claimed by granting 460 million. kr more in total for transportation despite the promise of NOK 2 billion more. It's a promise breach of NOK 1.6 billion. It is clear that it can be very easy to say that when all you do is send the bill back directly to the drivers in the form of a one-off charge on light trucks, an increase in the annual fee on veteran cars, tractors and mopeds. It is then easy to claim that you do a lot of transportation, but what you do is send the bill right back to the drivers, who already pay sky-high taxes and taxes to get permission to drive and have a car in this country. I cannot perceive this in any other way than that it is a modern form of highway robbery by Norwegian drivers, which pays far more in taxes and taxes than what you get back. I hope that there will be a majority in favour of today's proposals for the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-14.ana.ud1633e1657	First of all, something that has to be an obvious misunderstanding. For the representative Irene Johansen stood on this pulpit and listed several advance party municipalities that would be for tolls. Among other things, she mentioned: Tønsberg municipality, and there must be an obvious misunderstanding. I myself have had many meetings with the rapporteur in Tønsberg, who are as strongly opposed to tolls as all the progressive party people in this Chamber. Tolls are nothing more than an extra tax – an extra tax for the State to assume its responsibilities and solve the important transport tasks it has. On the first side of the World Gang, March 13th, 67 are killed in ten years on E6 through the Gudbrand Valley. These are the hard facts. And that is, whether you like it or not, our responsibility as the granting authority. E18 through Vestfold, in the north state, is expanded as a four-field road. That year it had full effect, when it was extended from two-field to four-field roads, the state saved 120 million. kr in reduced accident costs. And that means investing in the way is economically profitable. That means you're saving lives and human beings. How, then, can we stand on this platform and legitimize and accept an extra tax in order for society to have a return on its investment? The left's representative stood here and said we have to be a little careful with investments, so the Norwegian economy is not running smoothly. And no one will. But she never answered what the inflation effect would be of paying off already built roads. I could imagine challenging it, because I think it's a bad excuse for not wanting to give priority. For several years, the Progress Party has called for us to look at the use of money and distinguish between investment and operations. And there are more and more politicians around who are starting to talk about the same thing. So it's going to be interesting to see how long it takes for the Progress Party's policy to be accepted in this area as well. It is also necessary to enter the Council of Ministers of Navarsete. She boasted that it was important that there was local initiative and local consensus on toll projects. But it is such that the state forces the municipalities to take the responsibility the state itself does not take, and I do not think it is worth a country that has NOK 1 300 billion in the bank or in other papers. Neighbors' seats also said that the Center Party has been responsible for so long that they have learned to prioritise. Yes, they have learned to prioritize money on the book in front of money.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-14.ana.ud1633e1673	First, Hoksrud, who says he hasn't met any local politicians who want this kind of funding. It surprises me, when we've been traveling together and met unisonous demands to realize projects. So far in this session we have dealt with the Atlantic tunnel, Hardangerbrua, Finnfast and Bergen programmes, all of which have minimal state contributions, and which are wanted from local teams. So the last representative who was up here says it's because we force the municipalities to do it. I cannot agree with that. This is, of course, the case — and there is no secret either — that when you go for toll financing and a solution with local resources, there may even be other means, the project will be realized long before it would be possible within the normal framework. It is also true that many of these projects are ferry-relief projects, where, as an alternative, an eternal payment of ferry tickets is envisaged. So I think the comparison is bad. I would also like to repeat that it is also so that where the Progress Party is in position, it seems that politicians are taking inward the same reality as the other parties. Oslopackak 3 has been mentioned. I can mention Os, with Søviknes in the rapporteur's chair. There are also other projects, at least in my county, that have had party leaders in their boards, representatives who have also been in the local government – projects that have been promoted in this room, with the wish of party politicians. But finally, I have to clear up a manifest misunderstanding, and that was what Arne Sortevik made me feel. He thought that I did not have a reasoning related to my question about the cancellation of debt, as he understood. Of course, anyone who has a debt will get rid of that debt. I have no doubt about that either, and that is probably true of all toll companies. What I tried to focus on was the discrimination that the state would then make towards other limited liability companies – private or semi-public. I didn't get that answer from the Advancement Party, and I think that might be wise to explain a little bit more.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-14.ana.ud1633e1684	The debate has moved away from the cancellation of debt to a debate on or against tolls. I'm not going to pursue it, because there I think the Progress Party is quite clear, and I don't think it's going to be that long before the Progress Party gets in this room to use any more of the country's surplus to build roads instead of using the toll project. I think that can actually happen within this period, as we approach elections in 2007 and 2009. What I had to say is, among other things, the representative Johansen, and also the representative Wickholm earlier today, have quoted from the Address Paper. There was a look for a project on the Fosen called "One Hour to the City". If Wickholm and Johansen had been a little fair, they would have read the rest of the essay in the Address Paper, because there are quite clearly signed. When I travel around the communities and speak for and against tolls, I am at least honest, and in this regard I told those who were the initiators of the Fosen that they must only apply for tolls, but my voice never gets them. – But I can guarantee that you will receive votes from the Workers’ Party, SV, the Center Party, Right, Left and Christian People’s Party! At the same time, I clarified to them when, in relation to the Fosen project, they wanted the state to take 50 pst. of the financing, and so would 50 pst. be tolls and local funding, that it will not be given to you. By the Workers' Party, SV, the Center Party, the Christian People's Party, the Right and the Left, you'll probably be able to calculate to get 20-30 pst, and then your entire project falls into the sink. That's what the address book said. Then I record that more and more people are very concerned with the local politicians of the Progress Party. In fact, the representative of the Central Party was so eager to say that central politicians in the Progress Party put their mouths on and prevented the local politicians in the Progress Party from following common sense. But at least in the Progress Party it is that when we have programmed that tolls we should not have without a local referendum, then we hold on to it. It was our local and regional politicians who agreed to vote for when we dealt with our programmes. Unlike other parties, we follow our programs and common sense in relation to using tolls or not using tolls. It is clear that it is strange when you see the debate now going on, especially in relation to what is happening in the VG yesterday and today, that no more in this house now sees it immoral to be absent in order to rectify the accident, for example. through Gudbrandsdalen. I fully understand these five rapporteurs who came from Gudbrandsdalen, but who were harassed by the Council of State and the Government not to go ahead with their demands, but are now content to wait another 15 years to get a sensible, modern way.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-14.ana.ud1633e1695	Since several representatives have been inside the Council of State and the Central Party as two sides of the same case, it is important to clarify a few things. The centre party has fought for a transport project long before the Progress Party was established. We have had one line, and that is that transport policy is industrial policy and district policy, and we still have it. We do not come after the Progress Party or any other party in this way, but we are pleased, of course, that the Progress Party is both in this and other important areas, such as: right of return, now approaching the Center Party. We'd like to welcome that. Contrary to the Progress Party, the Centre Party acknowledges the decisions the party has taken in the Stortinget. It also applies to transport. We were together with the Progress Party on an action programme in the National Transport Plan. The center party is still standing on it. It is stated in the Soria Moria Declaration as the basis for this government's policy, so yes, there will be more money for transportation – not because the Progress Party gets through, but because we have a government that has, on its basis, said that there will be more means of transport, and it will be, even if this government acknowledges, as I said, the decisions we have taken – we must give priority to different sectors. The progress party does not want to give priority to it. In the choice between tow station demolition and road construction, the Progress Party says yes, thanks both, in the choice between increased community bet and increased consumption, the Progress Party says yes, thank you both, and in the choice between the use of oil money for investment and for consumption, the Progress Party says yes, thank you both. The driving of policies is a matter of priority. The centre party is pleased that we are part of a government that will ensure that this country has both a low dollar and a low interest rate, for all that it means both for private and business people, but that also has to bet offensively both on industrial policy and on transport in the coming years as we are.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-14.ana.ud1633e1708	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox The scheduled time for the morning meeting is soon to come. [[Footage, see page 1607]] The President proposes that this meeting continue until the current map has been completed, and considers it to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-14.ana.ud1633e1718	While it is verified that the Storting is properly composed, the President will point out that after the President of Odelsting has reason to believe, there will be no debate, at least not significant, in Odelstinget, and therefore the meeting of Odelsting will be held immediately after the grand meeting has been cancelled, with the intention of holding a brief public meeting. If everyone's here, you don't have to call a meeting. – Then Stortinget is ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-14.ana.ud1633e1728	During the debate, Mr Anundsen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to make the necessary proposals to abolish the requirement of compulsory membership in student relations in order to obtain the right to take examinations at universities and higher education institutions.’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-14.ana.ud1633e1767	During the debate, Christian Tybring-Gjedde has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to promote a revised proposal for ethical guidelines for the State Pension Fund – Foreign, where the sentence of Section 5.4.4., ‘The Council shall advise negative filtration of one or more companies on the basis of the production of weapons that normally violate basic humanitarian principles’, is deleted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-14.ana.ud1633e1793	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Ivar Kristiansen on behalf of the Right, Christian People's Party and Left Amendment No. 3, by Jan-Henrik Fredriksen on behalf of the Progress Party Proposal No. 2 is later withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-14.ana.ud1633e1833	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-14.ana.ud1633e1841	During the debate Per Sandberg put forward three proposals on behalf of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-14.ana.ud1633e1891	Here the proposal is originally for this to be sent to the family and culture committee. The President will amend this proposal following requests from the Special Business Committee, which considers it to be part of the Business Committee. The President has also spoken to the head of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, who also thinks it belongs to that committee. The President will therefore present the following proposals: ‘shall be examined by the Liaison Committee, which shall submit its draft decision to the Family and Culture Committee before the final decision is taken.’;» [[148]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-14.ana.ud1633e1897	After looking at Document No. 8:44, I have come to the conclusion that this is most of the consumer issues, and according to Section 12 of the Rules of Procedure, they will go to the family and cultural committee. There may also be a lack of food in this, so I see that it can go to different committees, but I'm probably in that direction – after going closer to it – that it should clearly go to the family and cultural committee. But what I could challenge the president about was that the presidency might take an assessment of this and come back and refer the matter back to the next big meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-14.ana.ud1633e1904	I agree that it will be possible for the Presidency to assess if that is the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-14.ana.ud1633e1911	Based on what the two committee leaders say, the president's proposal changes that referral case no. 148 are drawn and presented to the Grand Duchy after the Presidency has discussed the matter. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Further references were made:
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-14.ana.ud1633e1969	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word under Section 37(a) of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
