ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e24	The representative Jon Hunter Gåsvatn will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e27	On behalf of the representatives of Anders Anundsen, Åse M. Schmidt, Per Sandberg, Bård Hoksrud and myself, I would like to make a proposal to ensure safe and sound school bus transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e32	The representative Lars-Henrik Michelsen will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e35	On behalf of the representatives of Trine Skei Grande, Anne Margrethe Larsen and myself, I would like to make a proposal to introduce a girlfriend visa for foreign citizens with Norwegian loved ones.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e40	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e64	On Monday, the Storting received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following government councils will meet for oral Question Time: State Council Helen Bjørnø State Council Trond Gishstaatsråde Terje Riis-Johansen The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, would like to ask questions of substance. – We then start with the first main questions, from the representative Ketil Solvik-Olsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e83	I have a question for the Minister for the Environment. It goes against the power crisis in Central Norway in a few years. The Government has not yet put in place any concrete measures to prevent this situation from arising. On the other hand, it will allow a separate price range in, for example: Møre and Romsdal and the Trøndelags, which allow the power price to be multiplied for both power customers and industry. The Progress Party has repeatedly proposed increased power deployment to avoid this power crisis. Gas power plants are now proving to be the only option that can be built quickly enough for an acceptable cost and that will provide sufficient volume with new power. In the present situation, therefore, the Government should wish to accelerate the construction of gas power plants. Unfortunately, the government's policy leads to the postponement of such projects, as strict, peculiar framework conditions for CO2 management are set. In other words, the government statement is a roadmap for a power crisis. Of course, business and households are becoming increasingly concerned. Power billing will go on the roof, and jobs can disappear, fear many business leaders. Therefore, Statnet recommends the rental of mobile gas power plants without CO2 cleaning as a measure to prevent a power crisis. These mobile gas power plants pollute correctly as a coal-fired power plant. They use twice as much gas as a normal gas power plant, and therefore they provide a much higher electricity price than from a normal gas power plant. But in the choice between mobile gas power plants and a power crisis, most of them want mobile gas power plants. Therefore, the question to the Minister for the Environment is how the Government deals with mobile gas power plants. Will the Government permit the use of mobile gas power plants without CO2 cleaning, so that we avoid power shortages in an entire region of the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e105	I want to start by describing two confessions. One recognition is that the climate problem is one of the most important and difficult environmental problems facing the world. So we have a situation in which the dramatic climate change causes people's living conditions and life opportunities to be greatly reduced. It is important as a background to the offensive environmental policy of the Government, and the decisions we have taken on CO2 clean-up. That's the one recognition it's important to keep up high. The second realization is that we have a situation in Middle Norway that is serious, at least when we see a few years in advance. Welcome to the Government. We met a situation when we entered the government premises, which showed that previous governments may not have taken the situation seriously enough in Central Norway. It is on the basis of these two findings — the serious responsibility we have in terms of climate change and taking climate policy seriously, and the recognition that we are facing a serious situation in Central Norway — that the Government is working too fully to meet that challenge. Minister of Oil and Energy Odd Roger Enoksen is now systematically preparing, discussing, evaluating and working through all sorts of options. The government hasn't made any decisions right yet, but I can assure Storting that we're both working on and having a perspective on the environment and the power crisis. The size will, of course, be briefed as soon as the government has made decisions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e116	I thank you for the answer, although there was no answer in it. The situation in Central Norway is serious. Business is worried, and every day that goes, we see that the chance of a real power crisis is getting bigger. If we start building gas power plants today, maybe this can be avoided. In any case, the government should already be able to give a clear signal – a fundamental response – that yes, mobile gas power plants without CO2 cleaning will be acceptable instead of a power crisis. When I take this up with the Council of State, it is precisely because it is the Minister of Environmental Protection who controls the SFT who makes these demands. It is not the Minister of Oil and Energy who does. I am aware of the climate problems that SV is concerned about, but a Norwegian gas power plant would have CO2 emissions of approx. 0,0008 pst. on a global basis. If the alternative is a power crisis in a whole region of Norway, at least my choice is quite clear. So I ask the question again: will the Council allow mobile gas power plants to avert a power crisis in central Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e129	The Soria Moria Declaration is the starting point for the policy of the Government. It is then important to consider systematically all the alternatives available, what to do in relation to renewable energy and how to invest in it, what to do in order to ensure CO2 clean-up, and what to consider, if necessary, as crisis solutions. I want to be very clear that we are going to be able to conduct a policy that takes care of both the climate and the environmental concerns, also with regard to the solution that we have to find for Middle Norway. But it is directly irresponsible to conclude before the Government has reviewed all aspects of a case.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e137	The President will accept three follow-up questions – first Line Henriette Holten Hemdal.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e140	Oil and energy minister Odd Roger Enoxen opens up gas power plants with so-called clean-up periods to counteract this power crisis that we can have in Middle Norway. So what the Council of State, Enoxen, opens up, is gas power stations without CO2 clean-up. He sees this as an opportunity to supply the investment. The Christian People's Party believes that the Council of State here Enoch is trying to solve a problem, but that instead he is creating a new one. Today's government has a great vision that the consideration of the environment should be profound in everything we do – such a vision harms very badly with the term "cleansing-free periods". I heard the council say the government has made no decision. However, I would like to ask the Council of State whether she supports the opening of the ENOXEN State Council for a clean-up period in the case of the gas power plant at Forest or other gas power plants. What is the position of the Council of State on this issue?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e150	My starting point is that new gas power concessions should be based on CO2 cleaning. On my desk I have a specific setting from SFT that recommends that the pollution law requires that CO2 handling be done, among other things. The tent credit, which is one of the relevant points for starting gas power plants. Thus, the Government has not taken a decision in the case. As for what the representative Holten Hemdal refers to, I would like to stress that I have, of course, also heard what the Minister for Oil and Energy has said, but it must be lawful for a minister to say that he assesses matters without that being seen as the government's decision. We say in the Soria Moria statement that new gas power plant concessions should be based on CO2 management, and as we have also tried to say in the past, that's what the Government's policy is.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e169	Børge Brende – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e172	I have to say I was a little surprised when the Environment Minister said that it had not yet been discussed with electricity prices properly in the Government, and that it was therefore too early to draw any conclusion. The point is that we are currently facing a decision-making crisis with regard to power in Central Norway and no power crisis. The power crisis can be avoided if, today by the Government, the necessary decisions are taken for the construction of a gas power plant on the Tjeldbergodden. From this point of view, it was affordable for the State Council, Odd Roger Enoxen, to say the last day that you can set up this gas power plant, and then you can come back to it with cleaning. Now the Minister for the Environment sends out other signals. On 19 January of this year she stated that it was not appropriate to authorise the building on the Tent Goods without cleaning from day one. This concession is now on the table of the Minister for the Environment, as she also mentioned. Is it still not relevant for the Minister for the Environment, even though the power crisis is the option, to postpone the requirement to clean up?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e187	For me, it is important to hold on to these two confessions that I mentioned earlier. We have a situation where any government that is concerned with choosing decisions that are forward-looking and that take the problems seriously knows that the climate problem is the world's most important, most difficult and biggest problem. We are a government that has made sure that CO2 management is no longer an airy vision, and is systematically working to get it into our gas power plants. We have had to follow up a policy where former governments have had a refusal of decision. So what makes us have a power crisis in Central Norway is that former governments have not dared to make decisions. It is absolutely necessary that we carry out a systematic review of different alternatives before decisions are taken.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e195	Gunnar Kvassheim – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e198	One of the Council's confessions was that the climate challenges are great. She said in her reply to Børge Burnde that she would do what was possible to clean up our gas power plants. That's good. I have a challenge for the Council of State. The snow-white plant, which is soon clear in Hammerfest, will have an annual emissions of 900000 tonnes of CO2. The direction behind the Snow White plant was Stoltenberg I. The emissions permit was granted by the Bondevik II Government. However, that emission permit said that it was to be organised for sewage treatment plants. The government is now engaged in a dialogue with the developers of Kårstø for the cleaning of the gas power plant that is being built there. Will the Government initiate a similar dialogue with the owners of the Snow White plant, with a view to cleaning the CO2 emissions from that plant?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e211	I would like to thank the representative Kvassheim for addressing the situation on Snow White, because that is a serious situation. Because of decisions made by previous governments, we have come into the situation that we have emissions of CO2 in Snow White. That's really serious. The concession there is, as Kvassheim also said, given by previous governments. We want to be in continuous dialogue with the developers when new technology is available, and when new conditions are possible in relation to the concession. There is also a legal issue that needs to be resolved at all times. There are assessments that I am sitting with evenly and bluntly.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e219	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e222	I have a question for the Minister of Church and Culture. He has surprised both me and large parts of Medie-Norway to give the signal that he does not think it is worrying if the A-press was going to buy Orkla. It's striking, because the A-press, which is known to be led by Governor Gerd-Liv Valla, a member of the Central Government of the Workers' Party and head of the LO, which is the main sponsor of the Labour Party election campaign. It is also striking because, through several debates over several years, the Council of State has had a very clear and consistent argument in relation to the importance of maintaining three major ownership, where the A press, Orkla and Schibstedt have given names to the discussions. The council had not had to go into any interpretation of the law when he was asked about this. It is probably right that there is a weak point in the law, at least from the point of view of the Council of State according to the political objectives he has in relation to media law. But he could have gone to the barricades, which I'm sure he would have done in other contexts, and explained the political objectives. He could be a problematizing around the rule. He could have made it clear that the intention of the law was to maintain these different ownerships. He didn't have to give so to say clear path and full opening for the A-press's acquisition of Orkla. This tastes like someone's been talking to each other. I would like the Council of State's comment on whether he sees this as problematic.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e231	I thank the representative for the question. The sale of Orkla Media is perhaps this decade's most important media policy issue. It is Norway’s second largest media player who may change owners. It will be of great importance to several thousand jobs and to a great many local authorities, which are a backbone of our democracy and are an arena of local identity, cultural life, business and debate. The fact that the media minister might not have any idea of what is going on around such an important group, I think would be a completely misguided strategy. On the contrary, we have important media policy objectives, which I hope will also be met when Orkla Media may be sold. The three objectives we pursue are the following: firstly, we hope that Orkla Media will still have a good ownership, i.e. that they have owners who have long-term objectives, who have publishing traditions, the ability and willingness to publish newspapers in a good editorial manner with respect for the freedom of editors, etc. Secondly, we hope for a widespread ownership. It's in the ownership law. We hope for many actors. That the Government has proposed to reduce the ceiling on what an owner can control in Norway from 40 pst. to 33 pst., is just to ensure a spread of ownership. Then, of course, we hope, although it is not essential that we have Norwegian ownership in the media companies as well. We have good foreign potential owners of Norwegian media companies, but I think it would be unfortunate if all media companies in Norway were to be controlled from abroad, so that we do not have head offices that make strategic decisions, in Norway. That's the three objectives we have. But who actually wants to buy Orkla Media, Orkla's owners decide.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e242	In particular, the Council of State has not answered the question of the role of the A-press in this picture and the striking fact that it has thus changed its course in relation to the previous argument. So now it's like Gerd-Liv Valla as chairman controls 45 pst. by the A-press. Telenor has another 45 pst, with the anchoring in the state ownership that they have. I have to say that with regard to the whole system the Council of State relies on in relation to the ownership law – when you talk about spine, it is prolapse all the way – the law will not counteract foreign ownership. On the contrary, it will make it possible to acquire ownership where a strong political actor like LO gets his hand on the wheel. Then I think that the Council of State should consider legislating the Editorial plaque rather than going into and narrowing down the ownership restrictions. Does the Council of State feel comfortable having a politically aggressive ownership of a group that could be owned by all local authorities in the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e251	First of all, I think Olemic Thommessen is familiar with the fact that we're actually planning to legislate the Editor's poster, so it's absolutely en route, and I think it's the right way to ensure editorial freedom in the different newspapers. Whether the A press has a more aggressive political line in relation to its own newspapers than Schibsted-owners and Orkla Media owners or other owners have, it gets to account for Olemic Thommessen. I think it is interesting that a representative who has said very critically to parts of the ownership law, now suddenly becomes a hot follower of it because it could possibly prevent one particular actor from buying Orkla Media. I believe that as politicians we should stay away from who buys Orkla Media. We're going to have some general, general views on what Media-Norway is going to look like, for the readers, for the joy of democracy, for the joy of healthy, good businesses and for the workplaces. That's our role. But who, in concrete terms, is going to buy Orkla Media, that Orkla is going to be allowed to decide. They're the ones who sell Orkla Media. And then it's the Ownership Authority, which is now merged with the Media Authority, who sees whether this is in line with the legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e259	The President will accept three follow-up questions – first Karin S. Woldseth.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e262	I hear with interest what the Council of State says, but in the Soria Moria statement he says something different. It says the following: ‘The government will pursue a policy to counter excessive concentration of ownership and power in the media. The Media Ownership Act will be amended accordingly.» At the same time as the Council of State promotes this proposal – so he has promoted it – he goes out and says that it is entirely okay that the LO-Eide A press buys Orkla Media. In this way, Gerd-Liv Valla becomes head of two of the largest media houses in Norway. Does the Council of State believe that the Soria Moria Declaration applies to everyone else, but not to the movement of workers? Is that how to understand that any government council likes to be "similar" to others?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e272	It is quite right, as the representative Woldseth says, that the Government has actually proposed a change in the law – it is now under consideration in the Culture Committee – which reduces the overall ceiling that one owner can have from 40 p.m. to 33 pst. It ensures greater diversity. Of course, the Ownership Act applies to everyone, and it is the Media Authority that deals with any acquisitions. It is not even the case that the review procedure comes to the department; it has been added to an independent mention. So we as politicians don't go into individual matters. But we must be able to have an opinion about the laws we give; both legislator and government must be able to have an opinion about the laws. I have registered that the representative Woldseth's party still has an opinion on e.g. criminal law, punishment and that kind of thing. So with regard to the ownership law, I say the same thing today as I said when we dealt with it on 18 November 2004 in the Stortinget, that it does not prevent the three groups from selling individual newspapers between themselves. I'm sure of that today.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e279	May-Helen Molvær Grimstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e282	For the Christian People's Party, it is important that media failures, both local, regional and national – freedom of expression, that we need a comprehensive media supply, and that we avoid buying up that weakens the media diversity. It is important that we remain in Telemark, f. e.g. may have both Varden and Telemark Workerblad. Government proposals for new national ownership limits are something we consider. But in the debate that has taken place, I wonder if the Council of State is still focusing on ensuring media pluralism and freedom of expression, or whether the Council of State is most busy finding creative solutions to secure the A-press. There's another Trond Guess we belong in the Storting here now, than when he was in opposition. The announcements that have been made in the media have caused concern over Orkla and other media media by the fact that the Council of State has given a new signal. He says that he has always claimed the one, but if we look back at what the council has said before, it seems from the last announcement that it is allowed to be creative, as if the council has changed course.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e289	Let me quote what I said in Stortinget on 18 November 2004 about exactly this: ‘as I read the law, it cannot be an obstacle to buying parts of the group in the form of some newspapers.’ [[...]] That's what I said in 2004, and that's what I'm saying today. I think that a merged Orkla Media and the A-press will certainly be against regional ownership restrictions. Both in the West and the East, i.e. in Eastfold and in Telemark, they will come over 60 p.m., and thus the Media Authority will have to intervene. So I really don't understand what the representative Molvær Grimstad and I might disagree. But it's not like that if, for example, The A-press was supposed to sell the Bergensavisen, so everyone can buy the paper, except Schibsted and Orkla Media. So the law cannot be understood that way. That's what I said in 2004, and that's what I said in 2006.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e299	Step Skei Grande – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e302	Central trustees in the Bondelag have said that they expect reimbursement from this government of the support they have given, and others from other trade unions have also said so. The leader of the LO said on 1 May that we now have a government working with us and not against us. It's also the director of the A-press who says it. With the openings that the Council of State has actually had, and with the double communication and the opening of creative solutions that the Council of State has had, my question is, is that how you get paid back in social democracy, and is that what the Council of State's principles are?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e309	No, it's not. When the trade union movement is refunded because we have a new government, it is essentially about us stopping the right-wing policy that, among other things. the Party of the Left was in the last Government. We have reversed the changes in the Working Environment Act, which created a tougher labour market, we have stopped the privatisation of, among other things. The school system and health sector, we have had more offensive efforts to tackle unemployment, and we have had a much better community economy, which means that we are developing welfare services. These and many other measures are the main reason why a large majority of trade unionists voted for a red-green government. In the case of acquisitions in Media-Norway, it is the Media Authority that controls it and enters into individual cases. I don't think either the positioning or opposition parties should go into individual matters on the basis of political motives. Nor can it be that the right-hand side of the Stortinget reinterprets the ownership law in order to prevent the A-press from making purchases in Norwegian media.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e316	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e319	I have a question for the Minister of Culture. We've recently been given the right many strong stories by those who are game addicts, who have played everything they own, and all the money. There are many who are tired of going to the store and trading bread and milk for themselves and their families, because they can't help walking past the blinking slot machines, which seem like a magnet on them. This means that they come out of the store without money and without food and bread for themselves and their family. While the Council of State is waiting for the EFTA Court, we see that in many municipalities there is a large-scale campaign of solidarity with the game addicts. Many municipalities want to be free to play, and some of them have become. The Christian People's Party believes that the government should start work on getting rid of the vending machines. If we had an automatic monopoly today, the political parties would no longer receive revenue from the slot machines. We know that there are 70,000 game addicts, and that nine out of ten dollars are put on the machines, come from people who are game addicts. We know that those who struggle with this feel enormous guilt and shame. Multiple batches receive income for their activity through slot machines. What did the Council of State think that political party is also financing its activity with these funds? Shouldn't Giske and the Workers' Party pretend to clean up their own houses, because the Workers' Party is one of the parties that gets funded parts of their activity through slot machines?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e333	I don't think that as politicians, we have the task of moralizing neither against the various political parties, the Red Cross, the Cancer Association, the Rescue Company, nor any other person who has income on the machines. What's our job is to create a regulatory framework, which a broad majority in this House have adopted, namely that we get a system that gives people the opportunity to play, which is the joy of many in small doses, while avoiding the major and serious social problems that gambling addiction brings with them. I fully share the representative's description and concern for those affected by this. It's just a disease, and it's not just those affected, it's family, friends and associates, and it's creating huge problems. So we have to clean this up. The size of the store has discussed this matter, and the ban was part of the discussion: to shut down all machines and encourage them, or, where appropriate, to ban machines. It said a unanimous biging, in fact, no, and all the parties except the Progress Party joined the model proposed by the Bondevik government, namely that Norwegian Typing should have the exclusive right to drive machines, that the number of machines should be drastically reduced – they should be away from grocery stores and places where people move most, and we should get another type of machine that does not create gambling addiction in the same way. We are then, as the representative is well-known, dragged into the courtroom time and time again by the automatic industry, which of course is concerned about losing billions of dollars. Now it sings in the last verse of that process. Hopefully, the EFTA Court will take a decision in half a year, perhaps a little more. Then I hope that we get the same conclusion that we got in the Law of Lawyers: full support for what the Storting has adopted, so that we can implement Storting's policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e344	I thank you for your answer. But I still think it's a little alarming. This isn't about moralizing. But we know that the political party will not be able to retain its revenue if we get the automatic monopoly implemented, with which the Christian People's Party has been fighting. Then these revenues will disappear. That's why, as politicians, we have a responsibility to clean this up. I didn't think we should jump from that responsibility. I am aware that the case is before the EFTA Court and that things have dragged out in time. I'm sorry. Then I thought it was important that the Council of State not just sit and wait. It is important for him to start work on how to get rid of the machines if we do not win out in the EFTA Court, instead of waiting for the decision and then starting with new distributions. It takes too much time compared to all the game addicts that we know are there. The signals are given by many – as the councils were also involved – both family and those who struggle with guilt and shame. This is a big problem, and now we feel that the municipalities are impatient. I wish the Council of State were just as impatient.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e353	I am probably as impatient as the representative after reaching a final conclusion on the matter and having it implemented by a broad majority in the Stortinget. I really hope that the EU rules do not prevent us from doing so. That was also what the right of the teamman came into existence. But we are now once living in a state of law, fortunately, so everyone – including the auto industry – has a legitimate right to run the legal proceedings that the legislation gives them. So we must unfortunately lubricate ourselves with patience before we get the decision of the Storting. But that doesn't mean we're sitting and waiting for it. We are now implementing concrete measures to remedy the situation today. We're launching a campaign against gambling addiction. We spend more money on helping addicts. We're closing down the banknote roof on the vending machines, hopefully now from July 1st, so it's going to be harder to play so much money away so fast. And we also have other measures under assessment to remedy the situation today. So we're in the process of doing what Molvær Grimstad calls for, and we're going to do everything we can to help those affected.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e360	The President will allow three follow-up questions – first Karin S. Woldseth.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e363	As the Council of State is also aware, the automation industry has already promoted various measures to combat gambling addiction, including in 2003. using 1 pst. of the gambling surplus for research and treatment of gambling addicts. In addition, they proposed to move the vending machines from the most vulnerable locations and to switch to less aggressive vending machines. How can it be that the Council of State does not engage in dialogue with the industry? Now three years have passed – and why does he not engage in dialogue with the industry and find a good solution until the judgment about the monopoly falls? This is not about a conflict between the Council of State and industry, but about voluntary teams and organisations and the addicts to gambling. Has there been such a high degree of achievement in the monopoly case that the Council of State is not willing to find constructive solutions with the industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e368	It is now the industry that has prevented us from implementing what the Storting has decided, because if it had not been for bringing us into the courtroom, the vast majority of people had actually implemented their policies. Now I've been the Council of State for only six months of the three years that the representative Woldseth refers to, but we're already working on proposals that can remedy today's situation, among other things. by closing the banknote roofs. We have other of the industry's input proposals under consideration. So hearings are required, formal procedures are required, which means that this can't be done immediately, but it's in full swing. Nevertheless, the broad majority, apart from Woldseth's party, believe that it is only an acquisition from Norsk Tipping and a control over the gaming market that is a complete solution. We have no tradition that the private gaming market controls, as it does now, more than three times as much of the turnover in games as Norsk Tipping does. We've used Norwegian Typing as the tool we have to have a responsible and good game policy, so that one creates joy in small doses, but avoids the big social problems.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e373	Olemic Thommessen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e376	It is commendable that the Council of State has a focus on the victims in relation to gambling. But there's also another party in this picture, and it's the volunteer organizations. We have also noticed with some concern that Councillor Karita Bekkemelm has signaled a ban on telephone sales, which will also be an intervention in relation to the revenues of these organisations. If you think you're going to a ban, you're going to further complicate the whole picture of funding for the voluntary organizations that were behind the Bondevik government. What does the Council of State think of meeting the needs of voluntary organisations? There's a lot of money we're talking about, and we're putting these organizations in a very difficult situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e381	I don't think any government has had such an offensive platform for volunteering as the one in the Soria Moria Declaration, so facilitating good relations for non-governmental organisations is at the heart of the visions of the Red-Green Government. But what's happening now is that with the postponement of the introduction of the monopoly, the voluntary organizations earn billions of extra dollars that they should never have actually earned. What is then absolutely crucial is that voluntary organisations do not add to a consumption level on the expenditure side corresponding to this level of income. For that level of income will not last. There is no government and no large-scale majority, I think, who have some ambition to fully compensate for what is today's level of play. Then it's quite right that, among other things. The ski association is now making use of some of the revenue that you have on vending machines today, in funds, so that you spend the money over several years. Then, in cooperation with the voluntary organizations, we will find other and better sources of income, which do not create serious social problems.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e386	Step Skei Grande – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e389	In fact, I want to start by bragging a little bit of the Council of State initiative in relation to the campaign against gambling addiction. But we've also got into a political mess right now. For the Left it was not the monopoly that was the point, it was the control that was the point, and now the Council of State is taking a good deal of action to get better control of the machines we already have. But I have two questions for the Council of State. Firstly, could the Council of State have intended to consider a stricter regime, a different type of control than monopolistic solutions, so that we would have come out of what we are up against with regard to EFTA today? And secondly, the Council of State has looked at the consequences of such a kind of ban, for example. what will result from opening Internet games? In opposition, the state council has been a great champion of bingo, and the bingo will disappear by such an automatic ban. So I wonder if the Council of State has thought about the consequences.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e395	Now let's calm any listener or viewer: the bingo is not going to go away. Even though we ban the automatic industry's private players and leave this to Norwegian Typing, the bingo will last, both in bingo rooms, radio bingo and other ways of playing bingo. It is not the bingo that creates gambling addiction to a great extent either. There are two types of games, the machines and the Internet games, which are now becoming a bigger and bigger problem. That shows the numbers that we have from the Guide. But for me, this is about two things: it's about getting a system that's verifiable, and there I totally agree with my predecessor, that it's just Norwegian Typing's exclusive right that guarantees. And then it's also about having a national right to decide the game policy in a country. The European Parliament recently said no to the European Commission's proposal to make games a free service during free movement within the EU/EEA area, and I believe that we should stand firm that this is where the Storing decides. We won the law on the same rules as the EFTA Court is to judge, and I have good hope of winning there too.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e402	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e405	I have a question for the Minister for the Environment. It's interesting to follow SV in position. In some areas, a high and cash demonstration occurs when the lot is overrun by government. Foreign policy is such an area. In other areas, defeats are embraced and produced as an impact on SV. Environmental policy is such an area. The Labour Party parliamentary leader, Hill-Marta Solberg, called the management plan a scheme for giant petroleum activities in the north. She was right. The Minister for the Protection of the Environment, who comes from a party with a programme to combat all oil activity in the north, called on his side the management plan ‘ingenious’. When the management plan was presented and it became clear that SV had lost in significant areas, the Minister for the Environment stressed the importance of establishing a sea route of 30 nautical miles from the country. Ship traffic is a greater threat to the environment than oil activity, explained the Minister for the Environment. Now we know that SV has not reached in this area either. It is planned to sail 14 nautical miles from the Finnmark coast. Yesterday, the Energy and Environment Committee had a hearing on the management plan, and strong reactions from the environmental movement and from the Fisheries Team, which say that what is now on the table is a government lifting breach, and that a route along the coast is planned which invites conflict between fisheries interests and other shipping. Does the Council of State understand the strong reactions it triggers when planning shipwreck in fundamental conflict with environmental and fisheries interests and is the Council of State open to adjustment so that the arrangement is consistent with the promise?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e412	I still want to call parts of the management plan genius. Some of the genius of the management plan is the underlying methodology and method, the systematic monitoring of the state of nature, and the fact that all activity, both oil and petroleum activities, ship transport, fishing activity, must be based on ecosystem-based thinking. It is absolutely essential. Of course, it's in that context that the sailing side shadow shows up. It is important for the Government that we take seriously the fact that the greatest risk of emissions is just from ships. I have to be allowed to mention three key chords, so I have to make sure that different representatives understand the point here. We have a monitoring system along the shoreline that is Coast Guard. It'll work. 30 nautical miles from the coast. Then we have to make sure – we have some transport to go east and some transport to go west – that the transport that is most dangerous should go out further. That's why there'll be some transport in the shipping line, especially ballast water transport, which will go closer to 30 nautical miles. Of course, I can inform you about this in detail, but I can assure you that it is the consideration of nature and other activity that is why we have chosen that solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e419	It was clear that it was the methodology in the management plan and not the content that was brilliant. As far as the shipping side is concerned, the starting point for those participating in the debate is that SV in Stortinget has said that a desire for a 30-50 nautical mile off the coast. What the Environment Council is now saying means either that SV has promoted its policy proposal on the wrong basis, or that there is a scheme on which there is no possibility to make adjustments. It was precisely what the fisheries organisations and the environmental movement wanted yesterday, a dialogue with the Government in order to get a route that is in line with a promise when the management plan was presented, and not a scheme that is now, where shipping is managed into areas where fishing activities take place few nautical miles from land, with the potential for conflicts in it. Will there be a dialogue between these interests and the Council of State?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e426	There is always the possibility of dialogue. But what I want to say is that this is the way – these are the details – that in some areas the sailing trail will go within 30 nautical miles. In other areas it will go as far as 58 nautical miles off the coast. What is important, and as we have said, is that when there is a storm and wind, the monitoring system covers only 30 nautical miles. It is the Coast Guard that says that we can safely follow ships in storm, in bad weather, only 30 nautical miles. It is, in particular, when the weather is bad that the risk of accidents can increase. Then we can't lay the ship's traffic, ships full of oil, outside 30 nautical miles. These are, of course, details, but there's a clear reason, which is professionally based, for the decisions we chose to base when we applied for a route.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e431	The President will allow two follow-up questions – first, Tord Lien.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e434	It might be interesting to hear why it goes with 58 nautical miles somewhere, but not elsewhere. But I want to focus on something else. This was something everyone agreed on in the election campaign, including the Advance Party. Nevertheless, the Government does not get it. However, fairway limitation, together with proper towing boat readiness, may reduce the possibility of loss and acute oil spills. However, we need someone to clean up the beach zone when the accident is going to happen – a lot of work, and a work of competence. During these days, the Wilderness Fund is training volunteer staff to take care of these tasks. This is what the Government believes is so important that it sets at NOK 80000. Of a budget of 1.3 million. SEK to the Villlmarksfond gives the Government 80 000 SEK for this project. This is the Government's increased commitment to oil protection. Is the Minister for the Environment familiar with this?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e439	Oil protection is essential for us to be able to operate as close to the coast as we do. It is a matter in which the Government is very concerned, and as part of the follow-up to the management plan, both traffic monitoring and oil protection is something we want to increase. I can assure you that this is one of the issues we're dealing with, while it's a big challenge for us because the coast is both long and quite complicated in some places.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e444	Iver Kristiansen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e447	The Council of State has expressly stated that Russian oil traffic is the sovereign greatest environmental threat in northern waters. This is also very clear in the recent management plan. So the Council of State here says she's going to give three strings to explain the reasoning for moving oil traffic much closer to land, in the middle of the largest coastal fisheries, in an area where the Government has previously said no to oil activities, almost risk-free oil activities. What is the reasoning? What is the logic behind allowing this traffic, by the Council of State itself defined as high-risk traffic, to be moved to the centre of the main coastal fisheries area? It's like looking for the exit of the well-known weekly lesson 'Where to find the exit from the labyrinth?' when you're looking for the Council's key chord to explain the logic.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e455	I think it's important to clear up a little misunderstanding. It is not that the sailing path should go much closer. It should be located mainly 30 nautical miles from land. Then there are some areas where, for fisheries reasons, we put it out further, and some areas where, for safety reasons, it gets a little bit closer. So in the case of oil tankers from Russia, which the representative is occupied with, there will be an outer limit – between 25 and 58 nautical miles. So the Russian oil tanks go no further than 25 nautical miles from land.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e460	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e463	I allow myself to ask a question to the Minister of Agriculture and Food. The winter we've been through has created a new kind of learning for us Northmen. It has created new types of recognition, and a new kind of uncertainty among Norwegian consumers that we have not had before. Questions have been asked about whether the food we eat is safe enough. Several things have illustrated this, as the Council of State is familiar with. The question, however, is what lesson we have learned from these events, and whether we are able to take it inwards. Consumers have good reason to ask if Norwegian food is safe enough after the events we have been through. Safe food is absolutely essential. Consumer confidence is crucial. It is crucial for the actors in the industry, such as the farmer, industry and the grocery trade, but not least for public control bodies such as the Food Authority, the Ministry of Industry and the Ministry of Agriculture and Food. There is good reason to ask questions as to whether the Norwegian consumer can have the necessary confidence in the food chain. And that's critical, because there's one area where we have to have 100 pst. Trust, this is it. It has also been revealed that we are not very good at this with traceability and marking of origin. Here's the big weakness. Industry does not have enough traceability instruments and the origin marking is also not good enough to inform the consumer. My question is: what has the Council of State learned from the issues we have now been through, and how will the Council of State follow this up further, so that food security becomes a field of activity in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e478	I thank you for the question, which concerns an important area, and I would like to elaborate on it a little bit. There is no doubt that winter has focused on food security, and for me and the Government, food security is the most important issue in food policy. In this way, there is every reason to take with you the lessons you can, after the winter we've been through. We put in place new measures early to meet the concrete thing that happened, where the focus was on hygiene at the slaughter stage and the first part of the value chain related to food. After that, we have continued processes with the Food Authority and the departments concerned, and it has been concluded that everything that happens and has happened in the matter of E. coli and food safety is to be evaluated. A proposal for both the mandate and the composition of the sample will be made very soon to go through all aspects of the matter. We're not far away from completing it. In addition, we have undertaken a relatively intensive work in relation to the question raised by the representative Kielland Asmyhr related to traceability. I fully agree that it is a neglected area, an area that it should have done more in the past. There is good access to information today, but the connection of information is not good enough. That is why we have now started a concrete work to put in place a good traceability system in relation to the food chain as quickly as possible. I have also – and I took this initiative in the autumn, before the problems with E. coli emerged – started work on labelling and better arrangements on it. So the answer to the question is that this winter has shown how important the focus is on food security, and we have – as I have now referred to – launched a series of measures to ensure that we get better in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e493	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It's absolutely necessary that the government show that it's offensive in this area, because as a society, we can't accept that we're getting the kind of stuff that we've now witnessed. If that happens again, it will completely weaken the credibility of the Norwegian food chain, and it will create major problems for many actors in society. I thank the Council of State for taking this into account. But it is clear that there is also a need to look at the authorities' handling, for example. the conflicts of interest in the Ministry of State, between commercial interests and control considerations. My question is whether the government council will actively bring matters forward to the Storting if not too much time to address the issues we have now been through?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e504	When it comes to that question, I will answer the same thing as I have said before, that in order to get better, it is important to take part in the knowledge that this matter can give us, and make sure that we do not draw any hasty conclusions. That is exactly why we are now working on setting up a wide-ranging evaluation committee. We've gotten expertise from abroad to see how we can get better. I think it's very little wise to conclude on how we can best meet this challenge and take our experience further, before one gets the answer to the evaluation that we're about to launch. Now it's important to make sure that we take the time to get the necessary information on the table. In addition, it is important to say that the Food Authority has an independent role. It is the Storting itself that has defined it in relation to the professional assessments related to these questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e513	There will be follow-up questions – first Torbjørn Hansen.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e516	I think that the Minister of Agriculture and Food, who is the chief responsible for food security in Norway, has been relatively tame in relation to the cooperative company Gilde in the serious E. coli case that has been in the past few months. Even after serious errors, so serious that the Food Safety Authority has threatened with a police report, it has been silenced by the Council of State. When the Minister of Consumer Affairs Karita Bekkellem points out that the consumer has the opportunity to choose producers, the reaction of the Council of State Riis-Johansen, who are also meat farmers and stockholders in Gilde. The pelvis received relatively severe compensation and also received criticism from other central party councils when she took up the consumer interests in this case. Is it to talk about the consumer's case in the kind of issues accepted by the Government, or is it only to protect the producer interests that are the focus of the Government in these kinds of cases?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e525	I believe that if there is a certain willingness to see what has been said by the Government in these questions, there should be no doubt about what is the answer to that question. This whole thing is about consumer safety, food safety, and I also gave a detailed answer to that in connection with the representative Asmyhr's question. To the extent that the representative Hansen misses my commitment to the last stage in the value chain here, it has to do with sharing responsibilities. The reality here is that it is the Minister of Health who takes responsibility for these questions when an animal is slaughtered and there is a food issue and not a question related to the first part of the value chain.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e532	Ingredient S. Sørfonn – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e535	The food scandals in winter have done something to us. People are insecure, and a lot of people are wondering whether the food we buy at the store is safe, or whether we can get seriously ill by him. It has to be a minimum that people can be sure that the food we buy is clean. The Council of State has, of course, blacked out a little, called simple measures and scrutiny that will be started, evaluation etc., but I would like to ask the Council of State to lift a little bit on the veil and say what he has been thinking, because there must be something in the follow-up to this – if he can quickly say what kind of offensive action he intends to take to prevent new cases from occurring, and that we do not just have to deal with the cases as they appear. So my question is, what does the Council of State intend to do to restore confidence that the food we buy in the store is pure, and that one does not get sick by eating this food?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e543	First of all, to repeat myself, it is unusually important to let professionals go through this to see what has actually happened to negative things, perhaps what has been done correctly from the professional team in this process. With regard to the specific things that I have done and will do, I also have to repeat myself in relation to what I answered the question from the representative Asmyhr. We took action quickly towards the industry as the focus was on animals that were unclean, on hygiene at the slaughter stage. It was done in winter, early in the process. Then we've started fast-working processes related to tracking, which is a key in this case, and we have a process on labelling. Then we get an answer from the evaluation committee when it has completed its work, and then, of course, we will address the issues and recommendations that had to come from there, with the seriousness of the matter that this case requires.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e550	Let's go to the last main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e553	My question goes to the Minister for the Environment – and this time with a strong desire that the Council of State respond to the question being asked, and not to the question that the Minister for the Environment might think should have been asked. Back to power prices in central Norway, where I did not feel completely that we received very detailed and concrete answers. For the time being, I have understood the Government's actions to avoid a future power crisis as follows: One should make strange demands on gas power plants. At the same time, 30 mobile gas plants are opened, which are twice as polluting. In addition, the Government has scrapped the green certificates, which should be the strong encouragement of new and renewable energy projects. Then I have also experienced that the third measure is to blame for previous governments when you have no concrete action plan yourself. But now it can be that I have not received all the concrete measures that the Government has now thought about and will discuss – it starts to hurry – to avoid a power crisis in 2009 and 2010, with electricity prices in Middle Norway that might be NOK 1.50-2 per kW. This will be very expensive and will also send very negative signals to those who want to invest in Middle Norway. That is why I would like to take the opportunity to ask the Minister for the Environment to be specific. What are the four concrete measures taken by the Government to avoid a future power crisis in central Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e562	When the representative begs and asks me to lighten up a little bit on the veil, I might do so, then. I will mention something that Stortinget will be presented very quickly. It's Government's commitment to renewable energy. We are going to deliver a renewable energy scheme that is such that it may never have shown such a clear commitment in the past. The government is fully inquired about the work on these concrete projects. It is the Minister of Oil and Energy who is doing it and is now preparing it in the last days before the Government is going to deal with it and make a decision. But now we need a huge increase. It is about energy efficiency, it is about wind power, it is about energy conversion, and it is also about stimulating new measures for both private and business. Then I want to say that the power crisis in Middle Norway is taking the government very seriously, and we are now trying to get everything we can to this very combination – to be responsible for the environmental and climate turmoil that we are facing, and at the same time to make a proper arrangement in response to the lack of will and to the action of previous governments, who could have prevented the crisis we are now facing in Middle Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e571	At least I registered that the government is now thinking of a concrete measure related to renewable energy after a scrapping of the green certificates. Then back to the question I asked the Minister for the Environment in the first round, and I didn't experience any clarification, and the Council of State has to answer. The Minister of Oil and Energy has stated that the Government is now considering saying yes to gas power plants without CO2 cleaning, and is looking at whether it is possible to supply the investment by opening up a clean-up period of the Tent Goods. Then the Environment Minister went out earlier, January 19, and said – that's what I asked for, and I didn't get any answers to, and it's not sustainable – that it's not appropriate to give permission to build the Tent Goods without cleaning from day one. Then is the simple question that Stortinget is now presenting to the Council of State, and that we are actually waiting for a concrete answer to: Is it the case that the Council of State has reverted to its statement that there should be a requirement for a clean-up from day one, or is it not relevant for the Council of State to go back on this?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e583	The Minister of Oil and Energy assesses different measures, and he assesses many different measures, which any responsible Council of State must take. I'm not going to come to the government's conclusions here in the main hall until the government has actually concluded. We are going to deal with what the Minister of Oil and Energy is presenting to the entire College of Government. With regard to the Tent Credit and the application for a concession, it is for treatment in the Ministry of the Environment, and I have not, as I have said before, intended to do proceedings here in the storeroom. I note that the Minister of Environment's thinking is at the root of the Soria Moria declaration, and it says that we must have clean-up on all new gas plants.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e590	The President will accept two follow-up questions – first Ketil Solvik-Olsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e593	I only got one measure from the Council of State, and there was a commitment to renewable energy. This has been promised by the government in two weeks' time, but they began to promise this already three months ago, so the two weeks are very long in the government's time. Unfortunately, they can't have two weeks to last for three years, so the power crisis in Middle Norway will probably come before the government is prepared. The majority government promised that they would trade and not negotiate. The only thing we see they have in the toolbox about energy policy is a armchair, where they sit and wait for players to make investment decisions without the government having to do anything. I'm afraid we'll finally get a tent camp outside of Stortinget. It is likely that the population of More and Romsdal will come here and protest, because SV is not willing to take up the fight internally and allow gas power stations without CO2 cleaning. Then one would like to have bothered with a small marking on the lawn instead of a tent camp. Both NVE and Statnett have said that the only thing that can solve the power crisis in Central Norway is gas power plants without CO2 cleaning. Will the State Council allow the professional community to follow this advice?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e610	I have repeatedly tried to say that the government is working hard and intensely with the combination of taking environmental concerns and climate problems seriously and taking the crisis in Central Norway seriously. This is what the Minister of Oil and Energy is doing. To me, it's completely incomprehensible that it's not right that we now have to work as thoroughly as we do, so that we get wise decisions. For the decisions we are about to take, there will be long-term consequences both for the environment and for the power crisis in Central Norway. I think it is possible to achieve a comprehensive policy that includes both energy efficiency improvement, renewable energy and gas power plants with CO2 cleaning.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e618	Gunn Berit Gärde - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e621	There are major challenges both for the Minister of the Environment and for the rest of the people when it comes to the power crisis in Central Norway, but I would like to remind you that this is not just about a power crisis in Central Norway, it is about a national lack of power. I agree with the Minister for the Environment when she talks about making sure that we get the environmental concerns in place when we are about to build a new one. Statoil managers have said that it is not profitable to build a gas power plant without cleaning and that cleaning will follow. My question goes to these mobile power plants that are intended to be replaced in a crisis situation. The NTNU environment has been told that it is possible to make them less impure. Will the Minister for the Environment take the initiative in working with NTNU and the researchers there to put in place less impurityful mobile gas power plants?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e636	In the assessments made by the Government, there are many different elements. The preliminary assessments of mobile gas power plants are that they are highly polluting, that they have high emissions of CO2 and NOx – so not only CO2 problems related to mobile gas power plants – and that they are inefficient. At the same time, the possibility of new technologies is also assessed and price, opportunity, availability, etc. assessments are carried out. All these questions are being considered by the Minister of Oil and Energy, and his assessments will, of course, be the basis for decisions by the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e650	The oral question time is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e656	There will be a number of changes in the configured question list, and the President will show you in the context of the list distributed to the representatives' seats in the room. The President proposes that the proposed changes in today's Question Time be approved – and sees it as accepted. The changes were as follows: Question 2, from the representative John Thune to the Minister of Finance, is taken up by the representative Line Henriette Holten Hämdal. Question 10, from the representative Per Roar Bredvold to the Minister for Transport, is taken up by the representative Morten Ørsal Johansen. Question 19, from the representative Olemic Thommess to the Minister for Children and Gender Equality, will be postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left. Question 20, from the representative May-Helen Molvær Grimstad to the Minister for Culture and the Church, will be moved and answered before question 1. Question 22, from the representative Peter Skovholt Gitmark to the Minister of Health and Health, will be answered by the Minister of Finance as the appropriate representative. Following a request from the Minister of Finance, this question is moved and answered in response to question 5, which is to be answered by the same Council of State. Question 24, from the representative Jan-Henrik Fredriksen to the Minister for Agriculture and Food, will be drawn up by the representative Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e673	We go after this first to question 20.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e680	I have the following questions for the Minister of Culture and the Church: ‘71000 Nordics have gambling problems and a further 133,000 are at risk. 9 out of 10 dollars put on the vending machines comes from game addicts. We know that the vending machines are the main cause of gambling problems, and several municipalities have now decided to make the local environment a safe zone for the gambling addicts. Will the Council of State prepare for the introduction of a ban on slot machines that can be put into operation if Norway does not win the EFTA Court of Justice with a monopoly system or if the case goes out on time?’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e689	Since Stortinget adopted the automatic reform in 2003, the awareness of the serious gambling problems the machines contribute to has become even greater. I very much appreciate the commitment of individuals, local authorities and others to counteract these problems. It also suggests that restrictive gambling policies will lead governments have broad support. The automatic reform, with a halving of the number of machines, less risky games and much better control of both game development and game resolution, will be the best way to control the automatic market, since, at the same time, the emergence of an illegal automated service will be prevented. I have great faith that the EFTA Court will conclude that this arrangement is in line with our EEA obligations. At the same time, I understand the impatience that now exists to impose restrictions on the machines quickly. The government takes the problems of today's automatic regime with the greatest seriousness. As you know, the Government has proposed to ban the use of banknotes on vending machines this summer. We also consider further restrictive measures that do not require legislative change and that can be implemented this year. I also consider preparing a total ban on vending machines. As the representative sees it, a total ban could be an alternative if the EFTA Court comes to an conclusion that is contrary to what the Lawyer’s right comes to. However, the issue of the introduction of a total ban must also be weighed against the risk of blooming of an illegal automatic activity by such a measure. A ban requires legal support, and implementation will therefore also take time. The preliminary signals we have at the time of the EFTA Court proceedings indicate that it is not appropriate to impose a total ban before the EFTA Court’s decision is delivered. As I said, the Government is optimistic, as we got such a clear ruling in the Lawyers' Court, which judged the case on exactly the same regulatory basis as the EFTA Court is to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e700	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer, even though I feel that I have not received a clear response on whether the Government will initiate and propose a ban if we do not win out to the EFTA Court. I interpret the council so that he will wait. What the Christian People's Party is concerned about is that all the steps that are being taken take time. You can look at the ban on using seats in automatic machines. It has to be time, for one must have listeners, one must have things. And my question to the Council of State is, because things take time, will the Council of State immediately start to work to see how we can get rid of the machines if we don't win, in solidarity with the many game addicts?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e707	I think the representative, Mr. Molvær Grimstad, who I think shares the same objectives as the Government in getting control of the gambling problems, has a somewhat defaitistic attitude to the case in the EFTA Court. I am, like my predecessors and Molvær Grimstad's party trap, the former Minister of Culture, Svarstad Haugland, very optimistic that we will win out in court. After all, the court of law gave full support to the state. The Supreme Court was actually going to deal with the case, but then ESA came in and brought the case before the EFTA Court. In my view, there should be no reason why the EFTA Court should come to a different decision than the law enforcement. They're the exact same rules that we're based on. What, if any, is to happen if we lose the case in the EFTA Court against presumption, the Government has not taken a decision. But it is in the nature of the matter that there are then two alternatives. One is the total ban on slot machines; the other is the introduction of a type of concession scheme for one or more players. But there Stortinget said earlier that it is not a good solution to get control of the gambling problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e714	There are many voluntary teams and organisations that get income from the automatons that go to very good work. But at the same time, we know that 9 out of 10 dollars that are put on the machines comes from game addicts. Therefore, it is important that the Government looks at compensation schemes for voluntary teams and organisations in connection with the work to get rid of the automates and the blossoming of the black market. It seems that the Christian People's Party is important. But those who also receive income from the slot machines are some political parties, including the Labour Party. Governments have not answered clearly before in the spontaneous Question Time if they want to clean up their own houses and do something to get rid of the Workers' Party's automatons. Had a monopoly been introduced, these machines would be gone. It has not been the intention that the political parties should spend money on this. They won't do that with a monopoly, but it had been removed after the schedule. So my question is, will the council clean up in own houses in this area – yes or no?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e723	As we also talked about in the oral question procedure, I haven't chosen the line that we're going to point a moral index finger at some of the players in the playing field. Neither the Red Cross, the Cancer Association, nor the political parties shall be set up for the regime that is today. It's our job as political authorities to create legislation that applies to everyone and that everyone should follow. It is quite right that when the Act was passed in 2003, a significant point for the Stortinget was that good compensation arrangements had to be in place. The compensation should be paid when Norwegian Typing takes over automatic operation. It goes without saying that that compensation isn't in place until we get what the Storting has decided, and that's what we're now working on. Then the compensation will also take the form of a share of the gambling profit from Norsk Typing, but a lower share, because we are going to reduce the gambling and thus the gambling dependency problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e730	So we go to question 1.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e737	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Finance: ‘The Government decided in the 2006 government budget to impose a one-off charge on light goods vehicles between 3500 and 7000 kg. This charge leads to a sharp increase in prices. The increase is between NOK 35000 and NOK 200000 per person. Car. Operators who have ordered these specially built cars under the old charging rules will, due to A very long conversion time was paid for extra costs that could not be taken into account, when the car was ordered before the changes were known. Will the Council of State ensure that these too may be exempted from the levy?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e746	No, I have no plans to grant more such exemptions, simply because we had good transitional arrangements when this one-off charge on light trucks was introduced. When a one-off charge was imposed on trucks with a total authorised weight of between 3,5 tonnes and 7,5 tonnes, transitional arrangements were also made to ensure the considerations pointed out by the representative Hoksrud. Under the transitional regime, trucks introduced from 1 January 2006 could be registered without a one-off charge until 1 March 2006. If the car was ordered before 10 November 2005, which was the time when the proposal was made known, the deadline for registration without a one-off fee was set at 1 April 2006. This also applies to cars introduced after 1 January 2006. Compared to the previous tightening of the one-off charge, the transitional system provided for the introduction of a one-off charge on light goods vehicles is very modest. It is not appropriate to grant additional general exemptions from the one-off charge for light trucks, since I have been so flexible in this transition.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e755	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. I find it sad that the Council of State does not see that it takes a very long time to rebuild some cars. This has caused someone to get into a very bad situation because of the introduction of this fee. So I think it's sad that the Council of State doesn't want to give it to them, the possibility of this fee ticket. So a follow-up in relation to the state council's taking up the issue. State Secretary Tongesvik has stated at a conference that the Government will review the fee from 2007. With the signals given by the Council of State, I am very uncertain whether there is any wish from the Council of State. Can the Council confirm whether she will look at this until the 2007 government budget, or is this definitely by the Council of State?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e764	It is well known to Stortinget that it is the responsibility of the Minister of Finance how and with which deadlines this type of charge is implemented. We have been very light and flexible precisely because we are well-known that many have ordered cars in good time, and that it is a long delivery time. Those who ordered a car before 10 November have been allowed a deadline of 1 April. The remainder has been granted a deadline of 1 March. It's a very flexible and long transitional arrangement. I consider this case to be closed.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e771	I understand your council that she is quite clear and clear that this fee will still be there. I find it very regrettable that a charge is imposed and that there are even greater environmental problems in the big cities, by the fact that many choose to buy a more expensive and larger car, which is cheaper compared to the charging problem, in order to get goods transported. I find that very regrettable. Then I also have to ask another question to the Council of State: it has been said that for the next year a new charging system will be introduced in connection with the 2007 state budget. Here are the signals that this should be proven neutral. Now, the revenue from this levy is very low in 2006. They've budgeted for the state with NOK 270 million net. Will this be part of the total level of revenue of car charges? And does the Council require this to be applied to the charges initially levied in 2006 as part of the new charging system?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e780	I must be allowed to come back to these questions when we present the state budget for 2007. However, the representative Hoksrud is quite right that we are now working extensively to get a more consistent composition of the one-off fee, so that environmental considerations are also taken into account when people buy a car, because the one-off fee is so important. Then there will also be a relationship that you take more seriously when you buy a new car – not just every time you stand at the petrol pump. But I must stress once again that the transitional rules on these one-off charges have been very modest. We have listened to the industry along the way, just to implement it so that it will not have unreasonable effects on some. But of course, it will always be so that someone falls outside. Unfortunately, this is always the case when we set a deadline.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e791	This question, from the representative John Thune to the Minister of Finance, will be raised by the representative Line Henriette Holten Hämdal. Question originally put by Repr. Holten Heimdal, cf. p.s. 1949.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e796	I would like to ask the Minister of Finance the following questions: ‘It is important to increase the protection of the coniferous forests in order to ensure biodiversity. Voluntary protection is an important strategy to reduce the level of conflict in forest protection. Today’s legislation does not give all forest owners the same possibility of conditional tax exemptions. It is unfortunate if the protection process is stopped due to such legislation. Will the National Budget Council make a proposal to resolve the situation of forest owners who do not have the means to reinvest the amount of compensation in accordance with adopted rules?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e805	I fully agree with the representative Holten Hemdal that forest protection is a very important environmental measure, and that the best thing is to get this done through voluntary schemes for individual forest owners. Therefore, we also have rules in the tax law that provide conditional tax exemptions when one involuntarily realises gains in the provision of forest for protection, so that is initially taken into account. The tax liability is then deferred when the taxpayer reinvests the consideration received. The rules on conditional exemption in the event of involuntary realisation normally require that it be reinvested in a new object of the same nature, i.e. reinvesting the gain in something else that relates to the business under way. In the case of forest protection, this is considerably more liberal in that, in addition to new forests, it can also be reinvested in buildings or facilities for use in forestry activities. The organisation of forest-related outlanding activities will also be covered. Furthermore, if the forest property is operated in combination with agriculture, it could be invested in land used for agricultural production or for the acquisition or cost of construction or facilities included in the taxpayer’s agricultural holding. Therefore, there is reason to believe that there will be relatively few forest owners affected by a safeguard measure without adequate reinvestment opportunities. The representative Holten Heimdal asks if I will present proposals in the context of the revised national budget to resolve the situation for those forest owners who do not have the opportunity to reinvest the amount of compensation under adopted rules. Now there are two days until the revised national budget is presented, and I do not think it is right to answer such a question when it expires immediately.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e816	I would like to thank the Council of State for its response. I'll be able to wait 48 hours, especially if I get a positive answer. I am pleased that the Minister of Finance sees the importance of this scheme within environmental measures, but also that it is probably best that we run a voluntary process. There's not many of these. But we know that if one forest owner doesn't have the opportunity to reinvest in anything, then maybe he or she will become the plug in the system in a larger protection area, and that's unfortunate. The voluntary scheme we now have has given good returns – 120 dean have been given voluntary protection in the last two years. That's about a quarter of what we've been able to protect in the last 15 years. So the arrangement has worked. But it's important that we get rid of this one little unit. And I think it doesn't cost that many dollars either. But I am willing to wait until the revised national budget is presented.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e825	I'm familiar with the problem Holten Heimdal raises. It is true that part of these protection processes goes much slower, or stops, because there is one forest owner in the area who does not see the possibility of reinvestment. But at the same time, we have reason to believe that we should have a fair and fair tax system that treats everyone equally. And what we do if we make exceptions for some forest owners in such a context is, of course, to facilitate the realization of some property objects never comes to taxation. This is the dilemma of assessing tax rules in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e830	Does Line Henriette Holten Heimdal want follow-up questions?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e833	No, thank you.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e842	I would like to ask the Minister of Finance the following questions: «Predictability is important for business. In the context of the tax reform, it was decided that a ‘white list’ of countries not considered to be low tax countries should be drawn up annually and thus not subject to NOKUS taxation, etc. For 2006, the Tax Directorate has chosen to keep all EU countries out of the list. While Sweden and Denmark are not listed, countries such as Belarus, Russia, Indonesia and Morocco have been included. Does the Council share this assessment?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e851	The representative Sanner is entitled not to be included in the list of countries not to be considered as low tax countries in the EEA. This is because the list of low tax countries used under the NOCUS rules is the same as that used under the so-called exemption method. This method was introduced in 2004 and exempts limited liability companies and assimilated companies from the taxation of profits and dividends from shares in other companies. The exemption does not apply to share income from companies resident in low tax countries outside the EEA territory. At the time of the introduction of the exemption method, regulatory provisions were also provided for lists of countries to be considered as low tax countries and countries not to be considered low tax countries. For the 2004 and 2005 years of income, the list concerned only the exemption method. Since the exemption method includes the income of companies from shares resident in the EEA country irrespective of the level of taxation of the company’s home country, the EEA countries were not included in the lists. The NOKUS rules to which the representative refers are those governing the taxation of owners of Norwegian controlled companies, etc. resident in low tax countries. The definition of low tax countries in the exemption method and in accordance with the NOCUS rules coincide. It was considered appropriate to make the lists of countries to be regarded as low tax countries and countries not to apply also to the NOCUS rules. Therefore, from 1 January 2006, those lists also apply to the assessment of whether a country is to be considered a low tax country in relation to the NOKUS rules. For the purposes of this revision of the lists, the EEA countries were not included in the lists. For companies resident in countries not included in the lists, the application of the NOKUS rules will be based on a concrete comparison of the level of taxation in Norway and in the company’s country of origin. This will also apply to EEA countries and is in line with previous practice. However, I agree that the predictability and predictability of tax payers means that EEA countries which are not considered to be low tax countries are also included in the list of non-low tax countries. The inclusion of EEA countries in the lists will only have an impact on the application of the NOKUS rules. It is provided that the lists are reviewed annually. It would therefore be natural to consider which EEA countries should be included in the list of countries not to be considered as low tax countries for the next revision of the list, i.e. next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e868	I thank you for your answer. I stumbled a little over the first half of the answer, where the justification was appropriate when comparing the NOKUS tax and the exemption method. However, I am very pleased with the conclusion of the Council of State, namely that one will look at this again and then open up the possibility that EEA countries can also be included in this list.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e875	The representative Sanner has understood the answer quite correctly, but a little explanation as to why it happened was probably also in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e884	I will ask the Minister for Finance the following questions: «The tax limitation rule in the Tax Act concerns very many low-income pensioners. Many people also have some wealth. The rules make these taxpayers receive an additional tax when the property exceeds NOK 200000. This means that those with the lowest income here in the country, but perhaps with a small asset, may pay a significantly higher marginal tax on wealth than other taxpayers. Does the Council of State think that such a wealth tax on low-income pensioners is fair, and if not, what will she do with it?"
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e893	The changes made by this government in the taxes on wealth have strengthened the distribution profile of the tax system. This also applies to the distribution of pensioners. Pensioners and other insured persons are going to pay 35 pst. of all taxes on wealth in 2006. In 2005, this proportion was higher, at 37 pst. So we've made changes in the wealth tax that benefit pensioners. Most pensioners who pay taxes on wealth have been reduced as a result of increased deductions. However, some pensioners who come under the so-called tax restriction rule may have had some increase in the added value of the tax restriction rule, and therefore tax, because of it. increased equation values. The tax limitation rule is a special rule designed to reduce the tax on persons with low tax capacity. So that's the background and the starting point for this rule. In practice, the rule provides tax exemptions for revenues below DKK 125 400 in 2006. Here it also takes into account that wealth gives tax power, by 2 pst. of net worth over NOK 200000 is added to the income. Income on a tax-free net income and this property allowance is taxed at 55 pst. If the taxpayer is not paid to be taxed under the tax restriction rule, the ordinary tax rules are applied. So here you can pick the value for the value for the value for the value for the value Some pensioners may receive a very high effective marginal tax on, for example: deposits, both because interest income is included in net income, because of the addition to the property of the tax restriction rule and because of the property tax. The government will continue to work on the distribution profile of the property tax. In this respect, I would also like to take a closer look at the added value of the tax limitation rule that the representative fleet deals with.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e906	I am very pleased that the Minister of Finance particularly points out that the increase in the values of equations has resulted in some pensioners getting increased taxes. Now it's like the tax restriction rule doesn't just apply to people with a small fortune. It concerns several hundreds of thousands of people who do not have wealth, and it is a target group that may be even more up-to-date with the Minister of Finance. When these taxpayers come into the tax position, marginal taxes are very often going to be high. There are examples that if you, for example: housing aid, which is also regarded as income, may be more than 100 pst when entering the income position, the marginal tax. This is also an argument for a closer look at the whole tax limitation rule. Does the Council share that view?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e917	What the fleet representative addresses is a major challenge, because it sets a limit on income both in the tax system, of course, and for different benefits, such as: housing support. This allows for such a threshold effect that some taxpayers or beneficiaries of social security schemes may have very different outcomes, even though their actual income or benefit may be very low. This is a major challenge, and it is also a major challenge to see these different elements in context, so that it does not become unreasonable for the individual. I have, of course, the focus on this, and I am going to follow up on this also in relation to what is my constitutional responsibility, namely the tax regime. However, it is important that the Minister of Finance also differentiates between the other arrangements, so that the sum of what is important for the individual, both taxes and benefits, does not give unreasonable or incomprehensible results.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e924	What the Council of State calls threshold effects is probably more perceived as unfair when you receive the tax bill. That is my last point in this round, namely that the results of the tax restriction rule, that is, how the tax authorities arrive at the tax settlement, are completely incomprehensible to the taxpayers. And that's not because they're pensioners, because we have a retirement pensioner in this country that probably understands a lot of its own taxes. I think it should be done something to make it easier to understand this. Then, within the possibilities that exist, you might be able to relate – call it unfairness or threshold effects. Does the Council of State want to look at this, which is a little bit easier to do with?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e935	I fully agree with the representative that most pensioners in Norway are very up-to-date people who follow closely, and that tax rules can often be complicated. I attach great importance to the fact that tax rules should be as simple to understand as possible, both because people should be able to check whether they are similar to what is their own income, and because it has something to do with the legitimacy of the entire tax system.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e942	Then we go to question 5 from the representative Jan Tore Sanner to the finance minister. For those who had to wonder about it, it's because of earlier postponed questions that the representative Jan Tore Sanner gets to ask two questions at one and the same question time.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e950	‘The Minister of Finance, by letter to the Financial Committee of 16 March of this year, rejected the proposal of the Right to examine changes in order to facilitate the participation of all employees in its own business. The Minister of Finance himself represents a party which, in its party programme, speaks warmly of the need to better facilitate enterprises owned and run by employees. What is the rationale of the Council of State that it is positive that employees are sole owners, but negative that employees become partners or increase their share of the shareholders?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e957	The representative Sanner is right that we have had a round in Stortinget on this question earlier. Let me just start by saying that SV's involvement in this field is initially not about the Right's proposal, namely that this is a purpose that should have its own tax subsidies, but about other types of measures. The Working Environment Act has given employees influence and formal representation in the bodies of enterprises. The fact that work, not just capital, is the basis for influence is an important part of the Norwegian welfare model, which this government defends and will further develop. The emergence of more enterprises where employees are also influenced by co-ownership is positive, but I am sceptical that society should stimulate this through tax subsidies, which both break through the tax reform and have adverse distribution effects. It is surprising to me that the Right now proposes to make the tax rules for the purchase of shares by employees more favourable. This is, of course, contrary to the central objectives of the reform initiated by the former Minister of Finance Per-Kristian Foss himself. The Bondevik II Government carried out a number of restrictions on the taxation of benefits in kind, including: the reason why they contributed to eroding the tax bases of the tax system. Proposals now being promoted by, among others: The representative, Sanner, violates these principles and reopens to reward a limited group of workers with fiscally favourable arrangements. I just want to remind you that the purpose of the tax reform has been to ensure a greater degree of fiscal non-discrimination between persons at the same input level, regardless of the source, of how income has been earned. The proposals of the Right will break this principle and lead to employees who otherwise pay equal pay paying different taxes. Favorable tax rules for the purchase of shares by employees may lead to widespread discrimination in the case of taxpayers who are offered such remuneration and those who do not. It is primarily high pay that has large economic benefits associated with options and shares in employment. Therefore, a more modest taxation of such benefits would be most beneficial to this group. It will therefore also have an effect on distribution. As I have explained in response on 16 March, there is already a certain incentive in the tax system for employees to acquire shares in their own company, by reducing the taxable benefit by up to NOK 1500 per year. years. In my view, there is little reason to believe that the use of shares and options will be too low when the tax regime substantially equates this form of remuneration with wages. In my view, this is also illustrated in the presentation of the background to the proposal made in Document No. 8:28, where, among other things, it is pointed out that in the enterprises where ‘the employees have been offered to buy shares: [[...]] I would also like to remind you that shares and extensive option programmes may have negative effects. Business management — and thus employees — can get too strong a motivation to focus on the short-term appreciation of the company's shares, both through financial arrangements and in accounting. One shouldn't go back that far in time until one can find examples of just this. I am open to the fact that co-ownership can have such positive effects both for democracy and for value creation that it may nevertheless be right to consider a stronger public arrangement, but not by further tax subsidies on shares and options.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e974	I have to admit that I was surprised by the Council of State's response, and in particular by the tremendous commitment of the Council of State to combat measures that could increase the degree of participation in businesses. Both national and international studies show that co-ownership is positive for society, for businesses and for employees. It increases motivation and builds up the barrier between work and capital. But it is possible that this old ideological idea makes barriers in relation to the government's thinking. Making it possible for more people to become co-owners in their own company is not just about the high-wages. We know that many members of the Joint Undertaking are also joint owners in their own businesses. Road cover is a company that has had a great deal of success, like many knowledge companies. I also record that the Council of State here is talking about tax subsidies. We do not hear about this when you talk about the union deduction. To my question. The Council of State says that she wants other measures to increase the level of participation in businesses. What concrete measures are there in mind by the Council of State?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e987	Firstly, the representative Sanner cannot interpret the answer I have just given as a general resistance to company ownership. But I have fundamental and important distribution policy reasons for not wanting to contribute to it through tax incentives. It's because of the distribution policy. Even though employees with very common incomes now buy shares in their own businesses, the benefits of tax incentives will benefit those with the highest incomes most. Because we need a tax system where you have equal treatment of different incomes at the bottom, it's a path that I want to warn against. You can imagine other barriers that today help to make it more difficult to become a partner in your own business. It may concern legislation and other matters, but it will often be outside the constitutional responsibility of the Minister of Finance. Therefore, the Government will come back to this question at a later stage.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e994	When the Council of State says in its written, read reply to me that other measures can be envisaged, the Council of State must be able to put it into practice. Reports have now been submitted to show that what would work best to stimulate increased ownership is either to increase the tax base or to shift at the time of taxation. I do not see any major differences in principle between such measures and the increase in the union quota. Let me return to the Council of State's answer. When the Council of State in its reply says that she wants other measures, it must be allowed to ask: What concrete measures? Is it the case that today's shareholders should be required to give up power to persons who do not have shares, or is it by increasing the representation of employees, for example. in the governing bodies?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e1001	I'm not going to ask any more questions about this. I just want to say that it is not relevant for this government to introduce different kinds of tax rebates to encourage employees to buy shares in their own company. There should be no reason either, because it turns out there is no special barrier for employees in that way. They're actually doing it today. But there may be practical and legal changes that can make it easier and less bureaucratic for employees to implement this. I or the Council of State that has the constitutional responsibility for this, will come back to that in case.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e1006	We go to question 22.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e1013	This question, from Peter Skovholt Gitmark to the Minister of Health and Welfare, has been transferred to the Minister of Finance as the appropriate agent.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e1016	I have the following questions for the Minister of Finance: ‘The Tax Directorate has changed the search criteria in the public register. This change poses many practical problems, especially for private healthcare providers. In the past, the patient’s date of birth could be applied for, as well as parts of the first and last names. The new rules require the use of 11 digits in person numbers, as well as the entire first, middle and last names to seek out the patient. Why should private health providers be subject to stricter data protection requirements than those which are their orders?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e1025	I first drew attention to the fact that the representative Gitmark had previously asked me this question in writing. It happened on April 10, this year, and he got the answer on April 25. It is true that under the rules in force, there is a slightly higher level of access to the provision of information to public authorities than to private operators. This is because the public register was created as a common register for different public authorities, so that they do not keep their own separate personal registers. Thus, the purpose of the public register is primarily to serve public interests. The population register is dependent on receiving information from each individual citizen in order for it to contain correct information at all times. Individual citizens must have confidence that the information provided to the public register is not freely disclosed to individuals and private institutions. Otherwise, there is reason to fear that it will be more difficult for the individual citizen to report new or changed circumstances. Therefore, the need for accurate information in the register depends on the confidence of the population that the information is essentially used in line with the main purpose of the register. Persons and private institutions may be provided with non-tariff information from the public register under the Public Register Act if the information is necessary for the exercise of legal rights and obligations. The regulation of the law provides that information on a few ‘named identifiable’ persons may be provided unless the information can reveal a personal relationship. The birth number alone is not considered sufficient to identify a person. Birth numbers may be confused between persons, for example by giving the birth number of other persons in control situations or by giving up the identity of another person when a digit is typed incorrectly. Personal data protection is such that more criteria than birth numbers are checked. In the interests of privacy and the risk of confusion of information, the Central Office for Public Registration decided in 2003 to restrict the search criteria so that the full name and date of birth or full name and birth number should be known. However, as from 15 March 2006, it is also possible to look up surnames in combination with the following elements: first name address point or municipality For privacy reasons, information will not be provided if the search criteria meet the data subject's personal data to more than one person. In such a case, the search must be further specified in order to ensure unambiguous encounters, or an enquiry can be made to the Special Register at the South Hedmark Equation Office for Manual Processing. The Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Renewal and Administration have recently set up a working group to carry out a broad review of the role of the public register as the central register in the field of personal information. The main tasks of the working group are to assess the purpose of the public register and the principles for the provision of public records, both to private and to the public. The working group shall submit its final report by 1 April 2007.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e1056	The reason why this question was raised again is that as a representative I was not satisfied with the answer given in writing by the Council of State. Now that it is said by the Council of State that this is in the public interest, will the Council of State also confirm that it is in the public interest to have patients treated as best as possible and that the private healthcare providers offer an essential service also to the public health service, which is their order? Let me give you an example: private x-ray institutions, which provide their services exclusively on request from regional health care companies, are now saying that they cannot do their work in a safe and rational way because of the new rules, which means that in too many cases they have problems especially with long names and special letter combinations. Does the Council of State see that this is a problem that needs to be solved?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e1065	It is important to have more thoughts in your head at the same time when considering privacy issues. That's exactly why the rules are the way they are. It should be quite possible now in combination with the first name, address, post office or municipality to find the people it is actually about, if you were to meet more than one person when applying for this register. However, it is important to stress that the public register is first and foremost established to serve the public interest, while at the same time managing it in such a way as to take into account privacy interests. The working group set up shall examine this issue. It is still the case that private actors in the health market are an important complement, and the possible supplement is recorded as something else in relation to how to handle the public register, and is another type of political issue and another political debate. But here it's important to take more into account.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e1076	I am much more satisfied with the answers that come now than with the written answer. I am also pleased that the Council of State is drawing up the working group to look at the issues surrounding this. Nevertheless, I want to spend some time on a new example, once again with the private x-ray service providers, which are no more private than, among other things. the country's principals. I think it's basically quite striking, because these treat almost only patients on the basis of orders from regional health companies. What I see as a big problem is that until the working group presents its position, there are privacy interests that are opposed to life and health interests. Sees the Council of State that there may be a major problem in the utmost consistency, by not finding the correct journal in time because the search criteria have been changed and that this leads to unnecessary lengths of proceedings in e.g.: x-ray service providers?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e1085	After the answer I went through, it should be fully possible for any private health care institution to find the right person. So if it doesn't go through network searches, it can be handled manually. Finding the wrong person will also have a big impact on life and health. This is why the public register needs to be handled with great care, also because it is not necessary to provide information that can break personal relationships. Nor is it the case that we can regulate the relationship between public health services and private health institutions through the way in which data protection interests are maintained in relation to the public register. Here, we just have to be able to separate two aspects from each other. At the same time, however, it is working to make public register management as efficient as possible, while taking into account privacy considerations.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e1092	So we go back to question 6.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e1099	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Oil and Energy the following questions: «Many small and medium-sized industrial enterprises experience dramatic increases in energy prices. The company Södra Cell Folla AS can experience an increase of 50 pst. in its energy costs from this year to next year. The impact on this enterprise and many others in the same situation will be impaired competitiveness, which in turn leads to job closures and job losses. Can the Council of State guarantee the establishment of a new industrial power system from 2007?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e1108	Södra Cell AS and a number of other companies in the power-intensive industry, including the woodworking industry, have covered parts of their power needs through contracts under government-determined conditions. These contracts run mainly for the period up to and including 2011. A significant part of the contracts that are phased out is replaced by long-term commercial contracts. In recent years, market prices in force in Norway have been at a higher level than in the past, but still lower than on the continent, where prices have also increased. There is no doubt that this situation represents a significant challenge for the power-intensive industry competing in a global market. The challenge is not strange, but relates to power-intensive industry throughout the EEA area. It is a goal of the Government to ensure Norwegian industry's foreseeable framework conditions that can facilitate long-term industrial activity. We are actively working on this, in line with the Soria Moria Declaration. It is therefore my clear objective to find solutions for the power-intensive industry within the EEA Agreement. This is a complex work, where, among other things, developments in the EU centrally and in EU countries need to be closely monitored. I am asking for an understanding that it is necessary to spend some time assessing the room for action that exists, and it is not possible today to issue guarantees in relation to when any arrangements will be in place. But as I said earlier, my ambition is to come up with a solution by the end of this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e1121	I have noticed what the Council of State was about, that they have agreements until 2011. But many of the agreements expire in 2007. I have also noticed the Government's promises to the industry in the Soria Moria Declaration, which states that a Norwegian industrial power market should be investigated and put in place. A formidable increase in electricity prices will be able to determine, inter alia, the future of electricity prices. Norwegian woodworking companies, which is also covered by the Council of State. And, as said, many of the agreements will expire as early as 2007. How will the Council of State ensure that competitive prices for this activity are sufficiently strong? Or is it that industry can still expect adverse power prices until 2011?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e1128	As I said, we are now working actively to find schemes that are to be within the EEA Agreement and that are to be satisfactory for the needs of industry in relation to foreseeable framework conditions and to be able to develop these industries in Norway. It is a demanding job, because while this industry is exposed to competition also from countries that have a much lower cost level than what we have – both labour costs and energy costs – we see that energy prices have also had a rise in the general market. We therefore look at different schemes and different ways of meeting the needs of this industry. I do not want to go into the possibilities that exist today. I'll come back to that. And so we're going to evaluate several different alternatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e1133	I thank you for your answer. Once upon a time, in the case of Södra Cell, which six years ago bought two companies in Norway – one in Buskerud, one in Tofte in Hurum, and one in Nord-Trøndelag, in Verran – that had the company of Tofte lying on the Swedish side, it had saved 110 million. kr. So the bottom line would have been 110 million. kr better. Much of this is due to energy prices, it's due to strange taxes. As a result, Norway has a lower competitive advantage. A common market between Sweden and Norway was then tried when it came to the electricity licence market. The government has promised to return with alternative arrangements. Does that mean that the alternative arrangements will be as good as an electricity certificate market and the arrangements it could have created?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e1140	The answer to that question is yes. When referring to Southern Cell Folla AS, it is the company in a special situation. Bioenergy-based power is produced, and in Sweden the industry has been included in the green certification schemes that you have. It is definitely not just power prices and charging levels that have been decisive here, and I would like to stress that the situation for power-intensive industries is far more complex than that for the example of Södra Cell. There are also many other challenges to be addressed. We will come back with an arrangement that is as good and better than a certificate market, to which it was not possible to join. In addition, we are working on a framework for this industry to ensure long-term and predictability in order to make investments and develop the industry in Norway. We aim to present this as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e1155	The question to the Minister for Oil and Energy is as follows: ‘The Soria Moria Declaration states that all new gas power plant concessions shall be CO2 management. Most of this suggests that this requirement results in the timely postponement of the construction of new gas power stations. This is problematic in relation to the power situation in Central Norway. According to the Finanzavisen on 4 May 2006, the Minister of Industry has opened up ‘the construction of gas power plants at the Tjeldbergodden without requirements for CO2 clean-up from the first day’. Is this a new solar game from the Minister of Industry, or is the Soria Moria declaration to be amended at this point?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e1170	As stated in the Soria Moria Declaration, the Government’s policy in the field of gas power is based on the fact that given concessions are on the ground and that the production of gas power is to be part of the international quota system which ensures that the total emissions do not increase. The government’s objective is to lead Norway in the environmentally friendly use of gas. Using economic instruments and investing in new technologies, the Government will implement CO2 removal solutions and create value chains for CO2. The Government will cooperate with gas power builders on CO2 capture installations and contribute financially to their implementation as soon as possible. The perspectives for the power situation in Central Norway are serious. In particular, this is the case in More and Romesdal. We have in this area, which we have talked about many times in the past, had a very rapid growth in consumption – especially related to the expansion of the Hydro Aluminium Sunndalsøra. From this point of view, Central Norway is today the region in Norway with the greatest challenges in terms of security of supply of electricity. A further significant growth in the region will have to be expected in the years to come, inter alia, in relation to the Worm Lange extension. Analysis shows that there will be a need for action both on the production side and on the website. The situation in Central Norway is so special that it may be necessary to open up exceptional measures. One of the things we're also assessing is whether it's possible to carry out investment, by opening up a so-called short term clean-up period. I would like to stress that this is a question that has not been concluded, and we do not know whether it is at all a current issue, all the time that none of the investors have decided to invest. The decisions on investment in new capacity in the Norwegian power market take place in the light of the company’s assessments of the profitability of the projects. The profitability of each project will depend on a number of factors. For new gas power plants, inter alia: the supply of gas, gas prices and the development of future electricity prices are of major importance. In recent years, we have seen a significant increase in gas prices. The location of new gas power plants can also have a significant impact on the power situation in some parts of the country. In the case of new gas power stations located in areas where the network favours new production, State grids were introduced as from 1 January 2005 reduced the input rate. The aim is to stimulate the creation of new power generation in areas where there is a greater need for it. The reduced input rate will apply to all new productions in the relevant areas connected to the central network, not only gas power. State networks have chosen to use the tariff in addition to making investments in the central network. Adequate access to energy is important both for people most in everyday life and for value creation and jobs. The construction of gas power plants can contribute to a safer power supply. The government will therefore closely monitor developments in the further development of such power plants. In addition, the Government’s commitment will facilitate increased power generation by actively investing in new environmentally friendly forms of energy. Measures related to wind power generation, increased heat production and energy saving in Central Norway could also make a significant contribution to remedying the situation on a permanent basis.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e1196	It was very little concrete precisely to my question, which was whether the Government would waive the requirement for CO2 cleaning on gas power plants under new concessions. I am perfectly aware that you allow the concessions that have already been granted. But I'm going to be positive and say that I interpret it so that the government actually considers changing the Soria Moria statement at this point. It's quite eye-catching, because there's one thing that the Socialist Left Party has boasted that they've had an impact on government, it's just the demand for CO2 cleaning from day one. It's good that the government here is overstepping the symbolism policy. But when the Council of State talks about decisions that need to be taken to get investment, the problem is that many investors are sitting waiting for what kind of framework conditions they get to deal with. Mongstad has requested this in the Financial Paper, they have sent an application, they have not yet received an answer as to whether they will receive a concession. Will we be able to see that Mongstad is granted a concession, so that they can receive a response to the concession request and at least take the investment decision requested by the Danish Council of State Enoxen?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e1213	First of all, let me underline: we have no plans to change the Soria Moria declaration on any point – at least on this point. New gas power concessions shall be based on CO2 management. It has also taken industry inwards. Both the projects that have now been outlined, on the "Tjeldbergodden" with Statoil and Shell's project and Industrialkraft Møre's project in connection with Hustadmarmora, are based on CO2 management, not only because of the government's demand for this, but because it is seen that there is a value in this. For Statoil and Shell's project, even the value chain itself and the use of CO2 are valuable with the project. We've given extended concession to Forest. It gives investors the opportunity to start the project. We are in close contact with them to see how the Government can contribute to the realisation of the project, including that we have said that we will facilitate or contribute to CO2 management also in Forest. It is definitely not right that we have any plans to change the Soria Moria declaration on this point, on the contrary – it is a policy that more and more countries are going to implement.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e1232	My joy was not long lasting, I understand, because the uncertainty persists. The government has said – it has been confirmed by the Council of State, while at the same time confirming it by the Minister for the Environment – that the tax credit does not receive a concession without CO2 cleaning from day one. That's what the Soria Moria Declaration says. When the Council of State said in the first answer that one would consider a period without CO2 cleaning, there is a change in relation to the Soria Moria statement – a joyful change in the right way, but there will be a change. We know that if the Tent Credit is to have CO2 cleaning, gas power plants will not be there until 2012. Mongstad actors have said that if they have to have costs of CO2 in addition to the allowances they don't build. But the CHP plant itself is profitable. The question then arises: What measures does the Government have to ensure that gas power plants are built on Mongstad and on the Tent Credit where operators are given the framework conditions without excessive extra costs and uncertainty about the CO2 regime?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e1258	Mongstad is a separate matter, which we will come back to the treatment of. No one should lead anyone to believe that a gas power plant in Mongstad will remedy the power situation in Møre and Romesdal, or in Middle Norway for that part. It won't. It takes production in that area to remedy that situation. There are three projects involved. We have extended the concession on Forest, without having made any new demands on Forest – other than that the Government has said it will contribute to CO2 management. Then we have two more projects. Industrikraft Møre has said that the project will be based on CO2 management. And then we have the Tent Credit, where investors have said that without you being able to establish the complete value chain, there is hardly any gas power plant. This should be a far greater challenge for Solvik-Olsen's representative than to make a polemics out of whether to get a few months without CO2 cleaning if someone is willing to make investments at an early stage in order to get production started as quickly as possible. The government will do what it can to get CO2 management in place as quickly as possible. We want to do what we can to help make investment decisions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e1283	‘Illegitim debt has become increasingly central to the international debate on debt. Former Development Minister Hilde Frafjord Johnson asked the World Bank to investigate this issue, and money was allocated to this important initiative. This is now more than one year ago. Can the Council of State say anything about the progress of this work, what has been done, and whether the follow-up will be done by the Norwegian side to raise the issue of illegitimate debt in the relevant international forums?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e1290	I definitely agree with Mr Lilletun that the work on this study has gone too late. We have had a couple of meetings in the World Bank now in March and April to press the matter, and it is now clear that the World Bank will conduct such a study. Let me also add that the question asked by the representative Lilletun is only positive. This means that our office can travel to the World Bank and tell us that here the Council of State is hard pressed by an active parliament, which pressures him on the question of such a study. It has a positive effect and it is clear that a study will be conducted. Thank you for asking the question, and thank you for your commitment. At the same time, we want a broader approach to this in line with the Soria Moria declaration. It's not enough for the World Bank to study the issue; we will also take the initiative to get a similar study under the auspices of the United Nations. I think we're all intuitively feeling it's completely unreasonable that loans, for example taken up by a brutal dictator at some point, are to be disbursed by a democratically elected regime at some point in time. Congo is a good example of such a country, and the question is, of course, whether today’s Congo – which is ahead of a few weeks’ choice – will pay off debts raised in Mobutus’ time, for an incredible amount of luxury projects. At the same time, the question is also not simple, in the sense that it is not always easy to say at what time debt goes from being legitimate to being illegitimate. To take another example of Africa: most people would probably think that loans given to Mugabe in his early days as president of Zimbabwe would be legitimate loans, there was no unfairness in it, while loans given in recent times – since this regime is one of Africa's more brutal dictatorships – could be said to be illegitimate. But it's not easy to festivities when something goes from being legitimate to being illegitimate. Although we want to remove illegitimate debt, and want strong international focus on it, we also have to accept that there are difficulties related to the issue. The question may also be particularly difficult for the World Bank, of course, because the World Bank itself is a major creditor and could thus be more directly affected by this than very many others. But it is clear that the World Bank will now undertake such a study. In the United Nations, too, we encounter counter-conceptions in our efforts to obtain such studies, because many are concerned about what it will mean to divide different countries into more or less popular regimes, as to whether loans given to them are legitimate or not legitimate. There must be no doubt that Norway will be at the forefront of this issue. We will keep the tab high and run this against both the World Bank and the United Nations and try to force as much clarification as possible on an international arena, so that at least we can get rid of the absolutely obvious illegitimate loans that many regimes, or many democratic governments, are struggling with today.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e1303	I thank the Council of State for the answer, and will say very satisfied with it. I thought it was good that a now has a push on in the World Bank, and that they are running. I'm also satisfied that one will do the same in the United Nations. When it concerns the World Bank, I also believe it is important that a person be able to get a timetable out. I would like to ask the Council of State if there is a timetable for when one can expect this study to be completed, and if one here uses friendly countries at the Nordic elected government representation, or the Utstein group, to press on the board, so that it doesn't boil off in the cabbage, even if one is there. Hence: Time schedule and allies are my next question.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e1310	The answer to the first question is simple: I don't know. But I can promise that we will follow up and force a schedule, so that it becomes clear when it may be available. Regarding the second question, the answer is clearly yes. Norway takes over the joint Nordic-Baltic steering position from – I think – 1 July. Svein Aass, official and diplomat, will then be Nordic-Baltic representative on the board. It will of course be a very important matter for him both to contribute to the broad support of such a study and to remind him of, follow up and remind him of such a study through the board. He will, of course, also follow up on the many other initiatives we have with the World Bank.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e1317	I continued to say I was satisfied with the answer today. I also agree with the Council of State in what he says in his first answer, that here it's clear that it's a definition problem. But it's very important that the international community reach a consensus when it comes to defining this, so that we can sort of get on with it. It's always possible to find counter-representatives. There will be a lot of people who are busy doing it, and who are primarily using it in a way that can create this kind of debt. The final question is: we have had a pretty tidy policy in Norway, but with the shipping campaign at the end of the 1970s, we must say that we also contributed to a good number of countries getting stuck. We sold products more according to our needs than according to the needs of the recipients, and to very doubtful regimes. Will the Council of State say that now we're going to have a line across this? Will he be the one who somehow finalizes something that should have been completed a long time ago?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e1326	I fully agree with Mr Lilletun that of course this has two dimensions. One is to work for international definitions and an international regime capable of eradicating as far as possible illegitimate debts, and then to set up a large mirror and look at what Norway has done. The most obvious example of what can be claimed to be illegitimate debt is the shipping campaign. Let there be no doubt that I would very much like to be the Council of State that strikes a line over that debt. We have now set up a working group between the Ministry of Economic Affairs, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to look at how we can do it. Here there are some practical questions of a different nature that need to be solved. In general, this is a matter of paper money, in the sense that barely a few — at least extremely few — of those countries that are in debt to Norway on the basis of the shipping battle actually pay. It is also an unreasonable fact that a few countries that do better pay, while the vast majority of countries do not pay. There are also difficulties in the fact that some of the countries that do not pay and have debts are not otherwise regimes that identify us very closely, such as the United States. Burma. But we're going to look at it and come back quickly to the Storting, perhaps in connection with the budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e1337	I have the following questions for the Minister for Transport: ‘The rams of the South are in severe decline. The need for increased maintenance is now precarious. This year, the Vegvessen only has a budget to put asphalt at 11 miles of road in Agder. The need is at least triple to keep track of the ongoing need for maintenance. Many of the roads in the South were built long before the country received large petroleum revenues. Today, when Norway is the richest country in the world, it seems very strange that normal maintenance of the road network is no longer available. What will the Council of State do for improved road maintenance in Agder?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e1346	We have a huge aftermath in maintenance both on the highways and on the roads in Norway. The delay increased monthly during the previous ageing period, when Bondevik II, together with the Progress Party, was given large loops in the loops for maintenance. The lag on the road deck is particularly visible and visible to road users, and it is a clear goal to reduce the delay. Government increased road maintenance funds by 70 million. kr in relation to the previous government’s 2006 budget proposal. This is a first step in reducing the consequences of the former lack of means to maintain roads, but unfortunately this is a work that will take some time. The means of operation and maintenance shall cover many purposes. There is therefore always a balance between means of asphalting and means of other good purposes. I can see that the state road system has recently increased the effort for ditching along the roads. This is also a measure that will increase the life of the road cover.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e1351	I thank you for the answer, although it probably wasn't that much to take off my hat for. The council says it's a first step, and it'll take some time. I can ask you, how long will it take before we get enough money for, among other things. improved asphalt and maintenance of roads in the South? According to my information, this year about 45 million will be used. kr for asphalt on the national and county roads of the arable land. So it's going to be 30 pst. lower than that in 2005. According to the opinion of the Vegvesen, the budget for new asphalt should be at least double. Does the Council not believe that such statements by the trade unions that budgetary requirements are in fact double indicate that the Government must act quickly? The Council of State initially mentioned that this will take time, this is a first step, etc. The Government will do something quickly to increase the budgets to, among other things. better asphalt on the roads in Agder?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e1360	This is not new. Both the Progress Party, the other opposition party and the parties in government today know that the aftermath of both national and state roads has been building up for many years. In this way, I believe the representative from the Progress Party must agree with me that it must take some time to turn a shot that has been on – so to speak – the downward course for very many years. It is also the case that in the previous government, where the Progress Party also had influence, as I call it, increases – what I can see from the budgetary to the Progress Party – the means for maintaining by 1 million. kr in the 2005 budget. Otherwise, it was cut in that period. So I respectfully want to say that this government has started a turnaround, and I also want to ask respect for the fact that it must take some time to build up what has been built down over so many years.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e1367	I thank the Council of State for that answer. That was the case, among other things. in the election campaign that the red-green parties boasted that now more was to be done in this country than the previous government had done. Now it's no big achievement to bet more on the road than the previous government did, for there was nothing to brag about. But it is clear that, based on the ambitions previously expressed by the Council of State, of increasing investment on the road, it will be seen quite quickly as a breach of promises and as an election blow if the funds do not quickly come into place. Once again, the Council of State repeats that it will take some time, etc. I look forward to and hope that the work of getting more budget funds for road purposes, not least in Agder where the roads are now very poor, will be carried out in the Government. There is a great need for it to see the importance and benefits of having good road maintenance in Norway and that we do not reduce road capital. [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e1374	The President is asking for a respected speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e1377	Governments are increasing the traffic by 460 million. kr in the 2006 budget. It was not enough to meet what is the Government's governing goal, the National Transport Plan Action Framework, which also the Progress Party has put in the government party. It is this objective that this Council of States is guided by. After sitting seven months in the chair, I'm fully aware of the major challenges that lie here. I get daily recordings from both professional and other sources about the need. My job is to do this in the government, and of course to make sure that the government does what we have promised in this field, as we do in other fields where the government has promised something. Now the Progress Party has not been in government, but I hear they have ambitions to get there. Then, too, the Progress Party will learn that there are many sectors and many promises. My job is to ensure that transportation comes on that agenda, and I do that pretty much every day.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e1388	This question, from the representative Per Roar Bredvold to the Minister for Transport, is raised by the representative Morten Ørsal Johansen.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e1391	‘Hedmark is missing 333 million. kr only in order to resume the retreat on the maintenance of the road surfaces in Hedmark. The roads are today largely characterised by deep wheel tracks, holes and cracks. Maybe the worst is highway 3. What will the Council of State do to ensure that the follow-up is taken, and that we get an improvement and thus safer roads to drive on?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e1398	It's right, as the representative Bredvold says, that there's a big lag in road maintenance in Norway, both on highways and on county roads. It has been building up over many years, and it significantly increased due to the depriority of maintenance during the four-year period in which the Progress Party had a significant impact on the State budget. On three budgetary agreements, the Progress Party increased the maintenance item – item 23 – by 1 million. kr in the 2005 State budget, while the draft budget for Bondevik II contained a total of large cuts in road maintenance. The trail to asphalt is particularly visible and visible to road users. An analysis by the State of the Vegvesen for 2005 shows that of the total 28 000 km of highway in Norway, it is probably 30 pst, or about 8 600 km, considered to have poor or very poor coverage standards. With these numbers, I can easily understand the criticism that comes from the users. It's a clear goal to reduce this retardation. The government therefore increased the road maintenance funds by 70 million. kr in relation to the 2006 draft budget of the Bondevik II Government. This is a first step in reducing the consequences of the former lack of means to maintain roads, but this is unfortunately a work that will take some time. We're talking about big money here. The means of operation and maintenance shall cover many purposes. There will therefore always be competition between means of asphaltification and means of other good purposes. They speak as the representative of Bredvold refers from Hedmark, for both national and county roads. Of the 333 million. kr that has been dragged onto the road surface, applies to more than 60 pst. county roads, for which the county has a primary responsibility. I am well aware of the problem of the follow-up to maintenance of both national and county roads. Thus, the government will reverse developments from the previous period and work to increase the appropriations for such purposes in the next budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e1418	Governments here say the government has increased road appropriations by 70 million. kr. The fact that Hedmark has suffered a 20 - p.m. reduction in road maintenance equipment is basically bad. And without any comfort for Hedmark, in fact, all the counties have suffered a decline in road maintenance equipment. Does the Council of State have a good one, and I repeat a good one, an explanation of why all states have suffered a decline, when the Council of State claims that there has been an increase?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e1426	What I said was that the government increased the permits in addition to the Bondevik II government's proposal by $70 million. kr, and that is correct. What I also said was that the Bondevik II government had cut huge cuts on the maintenance side both in this budget and in the previous budget, which was also part of and negotiated by the Progress Party. Of course, this is the reason why there is a total cut in the county. It takes time to turn such a shot, as I said in my previous answer. We're doing that job, and we're going to continue with it in government.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e1433	I asked for a good explanation, and the explanation to the Council of State was that they had increased the appropriations in relation to the 2005 budget of the Bondevik II Government. I repeat the question again, and I want a good explanation: why is there a decline in all states compared to 2005, when the Government claims that they have increased the appropriations by 70 million. Do you really want to delete this item? I don't get it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e1438	It's a very simple explanation of that, that what was in the Bondevik II budget meant an even greater reduction. It's that simple. And that we couldn't afford to put in enough funds to get one plus the total, I'm sorry. But that's also the case, and that's perhaps what's the main cause of the lag over many years, that a lot of what's made of funds is tied up in investment projects. In fact, a lot of political craftsmanship is required, and I also want to say political courage, to re-prioritize from investment to operation, because on the investment side, a lot of people are waiting for funds just for their project, including big business representatives. It has a political cost to take funds. For example, I was. in the Gudbrand valley and warn hundreds of people waiting for funds for E6, that they have to wait longer if we are to re-prioritize for maintenance, given the limits one has. The government has the ambition to increase the frames. We are going to do that, and we are also going to prioritise operations and maintenance in a better way than the previous governments have done.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e1449	My question to the Minister for Transport is as follows: ‘The cars paid more than 4,1 billion in 2005. kr in tolls, an increase of approx. 300 million. kr from the previous year. A significant part of the toll is used for the payment of financing and collection costs and not for the use of installations. Toll financing has now become a significant source of funding for the overall funding of public road networks in Norway. It would therefore be natural for the State to facilitate the minimisation of such costs. What will the Council of State do to reduce such costs?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e1458	The annual cost of operating the toll companies consists of collection costs, costs of operating the toll stations, including toll companies' internal costs, which are then administrative costs. There are some major differences in the operating costs of toll companies. This has been the cause of the toll companies themselves, but also in the characteristics of the different projects, including the toll companies themselves. organisation and traffic volume. In addition to the collection costs, toll companies incur interest costs linked to the amortisation of the loans financed by the projects. This is a result of the toll collection starting after the construction of the road system. Borrowing is therefore a natural consequence of toll recovery. With advance collection, that is to say toll collection until one has enough means to complete the road system, a avoidable cost of interest. However, such a solution would reduce the link between benefits and payments, a principle on which Norwegian toll financing is largely based. I am busy reducing the cost of toll financing. According to the Directorate of Roads, this is a significant potential for reducing costs. For this to be possible, it is important that the projects selected for toll financing are appropriate for such a form of funding. Among other things, low traffic in a project with today's collection method will lead to a higher share of tolls being collected than in a project with a high traffic level. Furthermore, it is important to focus on low collection costs during project planning, so that the most cost-effective solutions are chosen. Modern technology can be an important means of achieving low costs, but it must be a prerequisite that technological opportunities are exploited in the most appropriate way. In many cases, the desire to meet individual groups and to receive different local wishes leads to higher collection costs than they would otherwise have been. The Ministry of Transport has previously warned that in 2006 the Ministry will assess the organisation of toll companies and possibly return to the Stortinget. I am now waiting for a proposal from the Road Directorate. In this context, I would like to stress that we must in any case have a system that ensures a local political anchoring for all toll projects in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e1469	I thank you for your answer. I hope that there will be a response to the Storting on the organisation and control of toll companies and that there will also be clear rules on how to implement toll-funded projects. From this government, there is little evidence that toll financing will decrease. What is important from the point of view of the Progress Party is to look at the large additional cost of this, namely the financing costs of the toll companies. In our view, it would be reasonable that when others pay the bill for the state for the construction itself, the state should contribute in a more active and clear way to reduce the cost of financing, i.e. provide its own loans at a particularly low interest rate or simply in an oil-breathed state fund to provide loans for toll-funded projects without interest.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e1476	I have registered from the Progress Party's national meeting that with the Progress Party at the rudder, so large amounts of money will be spent on transportation that I'm not sure if I can remember so many numbers, I think it was 100 billion. I believe the Progress Party in a potential government position will come in a situation where they may need to prioritize the funds in a slightly different way. It's not that easy. I agree with Mr Sortevik that we should look at the financing costs, and that is what we do. Here we also work with those who are locally responsible for this. We are actively working to bring down these costs. We're doing it using new technology. An antenna capture will also bring down the collection costs in a very good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e1483	Of course, I am always interested in the views of the Council of State on the policy of the Progress Party, but in concrete questions I am more interested in concrete answers to what this government and this Council of States will do. Toll financing is often produced as a spice layer in which the state, the rich state, participates in the split. So then there are two issues that are related to reasonableness, besides interest, that I was dealing with the previous follow-up question. There is a difference in shares between the country and the others that pay. A fresh example is from Fredrikstad, Kråkerøybroen – the case is on its way to Stortinget – where 6 pst. is payment from the State and 94 pst. is payment from the toll payers. It is also often the case that the State is contributing with its share late in the construction phase, and this means that toll companies receive additional financing needs and additional financing costs. Will the Council of State look at this and achieve a better balance in the toll-financed projects?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e1492	It is not that we do not have guidelines for toll financing – we have guidelines for toll financing today. What has happened is that the Storting in many cases has messed up a little bit in the direction lines, so that locally it may be harder to see what is actually the fixed line. That's one of the reasons why I have notified a review of this. We're in the process, just to make it easier both for those who want to take the initiative in the toll project, and for others, so that they know that we stick to the same rules. When it comes to funding costs, I will go back to what is an important basis for tolling projects: it's local initiatives, it's local negotiations, it's local decisions, and it's local funding – i.e. it's a local responsibility to negotiate that bit. Whenever there is a matter about this, we will take the discussion if any of this needs to be changed. But per year. Today, that's what's solid.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e1503	I have this question for the Minister of Knowledge: ‘What initiative will the Council of State take in the context of continuing training schemes for teachers, in order to ensure that time is used in a targeted and high quality way to enhance the professional and pedagogical competence of teachers?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e1510	From the state level, significant funds are being used in the implementation of the Knowledge Promise, more than in any previous school reform. It is important, then, to ensure that the funds are used in the best possible way to give teachers, instructors and school leaders high-quality skills. In Stortinget's treatment of St.meld. No 30 for 2003-2004 the Church, Education and Research Committee underlines the need to develop schools and apprenticeships as learning organisations, and that this can only be done through the responsibility of school owners and schools themselves. The government has followed this up in a separate strategy, ‘Competence for Development’, where the school owners are designing local plans for the development of skills and implementing skills development measures. The strategy has been developed in cooperation with the Local Governments’ Central Association and the Teachers’ Organisations. The strategy is continuously assessed by the research foundation Fafo. The first activity report, for 2005, points out that the funds allocated in 2005 have created a great deal of activity for the development of competences. In addition to the state funds, municipalities have increased the use of their own resources by about 50 %. 10 pst. from 2004 to 2005. For 2005, the report shows that, in particular, school management and 2nd foreign languages have been prioritised. The Education Association has presented a report by Norsk Responses. It is addressed directly to the teachers. The report also shows that there is a lot of activity in the field. 50 pst. of the teachers in primary school and 40 pst. in secondary education, they correspond to their participation in continuing education related to the promise of knowledge. Fafo also implements a more comprehensive follow-up evaluation of the development of competences strategy. The first interim report was expected in May. This will provide further information on the work on the competence development strategy. Of course, I will carefully consider both own and other reports on the use of funds so far. For the time being, I believe that there is no basis for changing the basic division of responsibilities on which the development of competences strategy is based. Through its significant financial commitment, the school owner has taken on a substantial part of its responsibilities. Whether the activity is targeted enough and high enough professional quality, I think it is too early to give a clear answer. When the first interim report from Fafo comes, we're probably going to be a little bit closer to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e1529	I share the opinion of the Council of State that the promise of knowledge is very important, and that it is comprehensive. I am also pleased with his approach to that there is much to learn on the road, and that he has agreed to take such a grip. The reason I am raising the question is not that I have at any time doubted the willingness to use this money. It is basically the turmoil I have established in myself as a kind of walker of life, both in conversation with teachers and also because I have experienced the Education Association's report as a constructive wonder. The question is whether continuing vocational and pedagogical training is actually developing. When I travel the wonder, it is not to attack the promise of knowledge. Of course not – I have been involved in fighting it out, and I am very pleased that the Council of State is holding on to it, but it is because I believe that Norwegian continuing education policy has been very random for many years. It has consisted of a dose of subject, good, a dose of pedagogy, good, and a number of other things. It's getting this focused so that it gets concentrated if what the government's emphasis is on, that we're concerned about it. So I'd like to hear a little bit more about the Council's reflections on how he's going to contribute to it. I feel that he has given me partial answers so far, and awaits further comments.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e1538	Let me first say that I think it is good that the Storting is concerned about how we use the means to raise our skills, because the entire Knowledge promise is a whole set of competence measures that are to raise the knowledge and competence of our students. In this way, the teachers are the most important. We see that considerable funds are being used for this. If you just take the 2005 numbers, it's on average $6,416 per person. learner of competence development actions. This is considerable sums. So large sums have never been used to enhance the competence of Norwegian teachers. And fortunately, it's a common promise, where the Storting's opposition and position both before and after the government change have been united. I'm grateful for that, because it gives breadth when we're going to raise the teachers' skills. Then this is delegated to the school owners. It is clear that it is demanding when, as a general education authority, we are to manage what is the local responsibility. But so far after the reports we have, both Fafo's studies and other studies, there is no basis for saying that it is not being used wisely and sensibly.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e1545	I guess I'm familiar with the division of labour. I believe that through the evaluation schemes to which the Council of State has referred, and to which he has also shown openness to possibly complement – I would ask him to hold on to that openness – I think we can develop knowledge that affects people locally to act sensibly. Because what it's about is that teachers should be good, that teachers should be allowed to experience that they are good, that they are respected, that they are proud of their subject and proud of everything they stand for. So this is not an attack, either on the Council of State or on the promise to get what we call the Knowledge promise, but I think we in Norway have had a very random relationship with the content of continuing education for a long time. That's why I think it's a strong issue to make sure that it gets focused on it. I promise that from the left we will focus on that with one goal for the eye, namely that these important crowns are used for science and pedagogy, and not for the post «different». I see that the Council of State accepts this as a constructive pes, and he should also look at it like this. And we're going to keep doing that, for example. because there is not always the same language around Norway, regardless of party, as the Council of State and I do to each other now. It's the teachers we're going to honor and pay homage to. We agree on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e1554	I take the challenge from the representative of Dørum in the best possible way. I am very pleased with the commitment shown by the Storting that these funds should be used properly, and that the teachers will, of course, get the absolutely necessary level of competence lifted through the considerable appropriations we now have. Because there are significant appropriations – that is more than 600 million. kr only for this year, if one merges the funds of the State and the funds of the municipalities. When the final evaluation report from Fafo is completed, we will have three documents that can say something about how this has been done. It will then provide the basis for the course further. The Education Directorate has called for a meeting, which is scheduled for 23 May, in which both the KS, the Education Association, the Lektorlag, the National Association of Schools and the School Leaders Association are invited, one of the themes of the meeting – if not the only theme – will be possible adjustment of the course related to the means of competence. Of course, I would like to attend such a meeting with anticipation, because if it turns out that the directorate together with its partners on the Competencelift believes that the price should be adjusted, there is nothing wrong with adjusting the course. But so far there is no basis for me to say that it is necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e1565	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Knowledge: ‘The advisory service is characterised by many as a neglected area in school. What concrete measures will the Council of State take in order to strengthen the advisory service in primary and secondary schools, in addition to the promise of further increases in continuing education resources?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e1574	I am very concerned about the advisory service and believe that qualified advisers are important in Norwegian school. In the Soria Moria statement, we both say that we want to strengthen the advisory service and that the advisory service is a priority area within the Knowledge Lift. Advisers have an important role to play, because good advice enables us to ensure fewer redeployment, better implementation and better safety in the workplace. Under the first paragraph of Section 9-2 of the Training Act, the student is entitled to ‘necessary counselling on education, vocational training and career selection and on social issues’. The school owners, municipalities and county councils, respectively, are responsible for ensuring that pupils receive this right. As a government council, I want to work for the school owners to follow up on this responsibility. By means of measures, I can mention strengthening career guidance in schools and helping to strengthen national cooperation on career guidance in a lifelong perspective. A career guidance team has been set up in the Education Directorate. The team shall follow up on efforts to strengthen the career guidance for pupils and learners, contribute to increased competence and quality in the field of education, strengthen the European dimension through Euroguidance Norway, and contribute to a more coherent and coordinated national career guidance. Furthermore, I would like to mention partnerships for career guidance. The Ministry has taken the initiative to establish regional partnerships for educational and professional advice at county level in cooperation with stakeholders. The Education Directorate has asked the county councils to initiate committed cooperation between school owners, Aetat, adult education, working life and colleges and universities to strengthen coordination, competence, quality and access to career guidance. In addition, we have a career guidance network for colleges and universities that have, or develop, counseling courses. The aim of the network is to develop and strengthen the training of consultants and build a stronger professional environment. Funds have been allocated for the development of the network and for the development of the skills of trainers. Then there's a new network resource for consultants and supervisors. A work is started these days to develop an online resource for consultants where they can retrieve information, inspiration, good examples, guidance tools, etc. I would also like to point out that we have carried out several other important projects relating to this area, which I would like to return to at a later stage. This applies, inter alia, to: The big message we have in work, about social cohesion, and we're working on what's called the dropout group, to figure out why we have such a big dropout from high school. These will give me advice, including: in this field. We also have work to do on changing the regulations of the Training Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e1591	I thank the Council of State for the answer, and I notice that he is now delegating this to the state level. I've been an adviser myself in high school for very many years, so I know this very well. Advisors — and get — have insufficient competence as they are today. In the opposition, the government parties were very concerned about this. Will the Council of State require special competence for advisers? And will the Council of State share the counselling service in a vocational guidance and a social educational guidance, as some government parties were in opposition to it?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e1600	I think it is very affordable to engage in the advisory service, and the advisory service is very important. This means that giving young people good, accurate advice on an increasingly complex working life and social life is very important. I intend to strengthen the advisory service. But it is ultimately the school owner's responsibility to do this. I am pleased to record that it has been continuing training and further training for consultants, and that is positive. We also see many of the measures we are now taking from the fall, not least this programme-selected subject. We believe that when you can get tastes of your professional life, you can also get less disqualification from high school. Many different measures are now moving in the right direction, and I would therefore be careful to conclude on what measures we are going on with, in addition to those I have already outlined that we are in the process of doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e1609	Once again, I thank the Council of State for the answer. It's true, as it's said here, that thousands of young people are wasting time and resources on wrong choices. That's how it also costs the state a lot of money – 1 billion kroner I think I've read that it cost me last year. Training offers are very many for young people today, both domestically and especially abroad. To follow up on this is an incredibly demanding exercise for the advisers. I know that parents who are resource-intensive have the opportunity to follow this up, and they also have the opportunity to buy services – guidance services – which cost NOK 4000 – NOK 5000 per person. sequence. According to the Career Center at the University of Oslo, Norway is far behind. I hear about online solutions, and I hear that it's being pushed over to the county municipality. I also know how the county council strives to complete the tasks they have today. I will try again: What concrete action will the Council of State take, and will he share the advisory service?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e1620	I share the commitment that we must have good advisers. Advisers have a very important role to play in advising young people in a very complex social, labour and educational life. It is also true that many of these choices will focus on the rest of the world. This means that advisers also have an even more important role to play in guiding increasingly aggressive marketing from foreign universities to recruit Norwegian youth – not least. This is the competence that advisers should have, part of the job they should have. I trust that the school owners will do this job with the consultants, so that they can fill their skills. Being an adviser is a demanding, but very exciting and interesting job, which I am convinced that the representative Tenden knows, since she herself has been an adviser in high school. We're following this closely. I have outlined many different actions today, which we believe will have a good impact on a better counselling service. We have several projects in progress, which I will come back to both in terms of grossing-up messages and the drop-off group. We will come back to the other questions that the representative Tenden raises as they mature.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e1631	«Inside. O. No 43 for 2002–03, the free principle in primary school was clarified and clarified. Unfortunately, there is still considerable uncertainty among schools, school owners and parents about how to practice the principle. Will the Council of State carry out an evaluation of the functioning of the free principle since 2003 and whether further action may be needed in this respect?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e1638	Initially, I would like to make it clear that the public primary school should be open to everyone, regardless of the parent's economy. There was a great deal of cross-political agreement to clarify the right to free primary public education — or the so-called free principle — of the 2003 amendment. The Law of the Training Act § 2–15 states that primary public education must be free of charge for all pupils. This means that the municipality cannot charge for either educational material or activities carried out under the direction of the school, which are part of compulsory education. It's made its own circular that clarifies and interprets the law. The circular was sent to the municipalities in its time to ensure that all primary schools, parents and students were informed about the content. In the circular, among others: the question of propensity for the coverage of camp schools and other tours and the question of voluntary gifts, dues, etc. of the Court of Justice of the European Communities, cited above. It's e.g. not statutoryly prohibiting the school from accepting different forms of voluntary service, e.g. also financial contributions, as long as the contribution is used to benefit the whole group or class. However, there is a clear premise that no one has to be pressured to make the effort. The right to free primary education in the context of the possibility for schools to receive gifts and other forms of voluntary contributions may, of course, lead to doubts and questions relating to the limits of the free principle. The media surveys in recent times may indicate that there are many municipalities and schools that have not put themselves well enough into the circular. However, some enquiries suggest that the practice of the free principle has revealed new issues that need to be addressed. This is now being assessed by the Education Directorate, which is responsible for interpreting the existing legislation at national level. Therefore, I would like to await the Directorate-General for Education’s assessment before deciding whether there is a need for new measures or some kind of evaluation of the practice of the free principle.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e1649	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I agree with the principles which the Council of State mentioned at the outset, and which are based on the principles developed by good, old Left Chiefs and Ideologists when they created the Public Norwegian School. We often see that enforcement today is based on wanting to go around a principle of magnificence with fancy solutions. Is it not the case that the Council of State might consider whether the enforcement of the free principle and legislation should have been more locally designed to meet local solutions? Locally, you also want to keep the free principle high, but you want to find the good solutions to avoid differences in school. Is not the State Council open to a more local enforcement of the free principle?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e1658	In principle, this is handled locally. We've sent out a circular that clarifies how this should be understood at national level. So it's always so that you can get into practical situations in school that you have to find a practical approach to. It's my very definite impression that it's essentially practical approaches to and relaxation of. It's important for our government, but I think it's also important for the Storting as a whole, to hedge that the free principle is a very important principle, an important ideological principle for the school, that the school should be open, free and accessible to everyone. You will constantly get up in borderline cases that will be difficult and demanding. This needs to be resolved locally, as has been historically solved locally – preferably in the classroom with the parents, or to the extent necessary, school management. To the extent that it's not enough, you connect local democracy to the municipality. This has to be dealt with in practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e1667	My experience from the school is that formerly the free principle was enforced by good, competent teachers, who sometimes allow giroes for voluntary payment in some bags, but sometimes it is to put them in other bags. Then we made a big decision that has been perceived as being very rigid in relation to the local government. If you add it, for example. to those who are also responsible for the budget for each school, there may be a greater link between the wishes you have, for example. to travel on trips and the appropriations allocated to the local school. Does not the Council of State think it would be a good allocation of responsibilities to place enforcement of this locally instead of doing so via centralised circulars?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e1672	I almost think the answer to that must be no, but let me clarify what I'm saying. We say that there is a need for national standards and rules on how the free principle should be. This means that it is an important principle to fence Norwegian school free of charge. Then you'll have to find practical solutions locally when this situation arises, as it is today. This means that national legislation exists, and the Education Directorate is the one dealing with this on behalf of the Ministry and the Stortinget, how this should be understood. If there were no national rules, there would probably have been a very high level of discrimination in each municipality, which in itself would be unfortunate and generate new debate. I think that the way we've solved this by the directorate and we're dealing with national rules, but finding a practical approach in most cases completely without conflict locally, is the wise course of balance to fend for the free principle.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e1686	I have the following questions for the Minister of Knowledge: ‘Recently, ADHD has been a highly debated topic in the media. In particular, there has been a focus on help measures at school. Will the Council of State take the initiative to improve coordination of different actions in relation to ADHD and primary school pupils?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e1695	ADHD is a diagnosis to be made by the health care system. There is an estimated incidence of 3-5 pst. The diagnosis involves symptoms that cause learning problems. The Directorate for Social Affairs and Health published a guide in 2005 to ensure the quality of the investigative work. If specific instruction is given following individual decisions, individual training plan — IOP — will be an important part of individual plan — IP. The Education Directorate has recently provided a status report on children and young people with ADHD and similar behavioural problems from a school perspective. Children with these and neighbouring difficulties benefit from schools with a structured learning environment, which have a planned and conscious style in relation to students, and close follow-up of teachers. For students with ADHD, predictability is important in all areas, and there are in particular two programmes in use — via the Education Directorate — to reduce school unrest, namely the LP model — the learning environment and the pedagogical analysis — and the PALS programme — positive behaviour, supportive learning environment and school interaction. I would like to stress that students with ADHD are the responsibility of the entire school. The pedagogical psychological service – PPT – special educational centres of competence, health services, social services, child protection, social security, Aetate and other bodies will be relevant partners at different times and to varying degrees. The report refers to successful models of cross-disciplinary cooperation around the diagnostic group. This concerns investigative work in which competence centres, hospitals, PPTs, focus and specialist health services have structured their cooperation. Furthermore, there is cooperation between centres of expertise, municipalities, BUP clinics and in health and habilitation. A typical feature of these models is that they are structured in terms of allocating responsibilities and roles. Each case is assigned to a case handler, and there is less to be done. The report forms the basis for our further work in the field. In particular, the Ministry will consider how to contribute to ensuring cross-border and multidisciplinary cooperation at local, regional and national level.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e1712	I want to thank you for the answer, and I have a follow-up question. A study carried out by the Social and Health Directorate in 2005 shows that only two out of ten children who want and need mental health protection have developed a so-called individual plan. Among the 20 pst. an individual plan has been drawn up, only half of them have been re-established and an individual training plan has been drawn up. Will the Council of State take the initiative to increase information for parents with children in school on their individual and individual training programmes?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e1721	Yeah, I think that's a good idea. We consider developing and sending out a guide who will provide information about this to schools and kindergartens, so that you become more aware of the problem. But let me say that there's a very demanding situation in the class with a student with ADHD. There is also a very demanding situation for the individual child, and a high level of competence is required to deal with it both in a practical way and in order to provide the necessary professional assistance. This means that continuing education will be the current action, and I think it is also necessary to say that we need more research in this field. This is a difficult situation for the families and the school that has children with ADHD, which can largely destroy a learning environment, but which needs guidance and help. We are positive in following up the report of the Education Directorate with new measures and information for schools and parents.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e1730	I also thank you for this answer. Many schools have applied individual training plans, but when a plan is available, action should be taken. Many teachers then experience both lack of resources and lack of knowledge. Lack of equipment and suitable premises is a common problem. Teachers also experience the need to be specifically trained without having the necessary skills. There is a lack of both courses and support for continuing training in special education. What will the Council of State do to improve these conditions?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e1739	It is the primary responsibility of the school and school owners to facilitate this. We are now providing, as I said in a previous answer here, significant funds for continuing education related to the Knowledge promise, and it is also possible to imagine that you can have more continuing training in this field. We'll get back to that. There's a tough situation, and there's a lot of public focus around this. That's good. That means we can move on, but now we've got the report from the directorate. We're going to discuss it further and look at what we think it might be wise to do, but both we, the Directorate and the Ministry of Health are focusing on this, so I hope that at the end of this course we will come up with a lot of good measures to improve the situation for these children and for the school.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e1750	I have the following questions for the Minister of Knowledge: ‘In the 2006 draft budget of the Bondevik II Government, there were 50 million. to enhance the competence of the kindergarten sector. Nine of these millions have now been granted to county councillors to contribute to the implementation of the new law on kindergartens and the revised framework for kindergarten. How should the remaining money be used?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e1759	It is distributed nearly 60 million. in 2006 for empowerment in the kindergarten sector. It's an event for the kindergarten sector, and it's never been allocated as much money as this. I am pleased that both the previous and the sitting governments agree on this. There is no doubt that enough staff and competent staff are important to bet on in order to achieve quality in kindergarten. This year’s focus is on the introduction of a new framework for the content and tasks of the nursery. The funds are allocated in the following areas: implementation of the framework plan, development of competences, practical research and development. As the representative of Molvær Grimstad says, the counties have received $9 million. extra to provide guidance on the framework plan and kindergarten law. A total of 20 million. kr from the Ministry of Knowledge of the State for the implementation of measures in line with the Government’s overall initiative in the nursery sector. In 2006, particular attention shall be paid to new laws and frameworks. We want to pay particular attention to some areas. That's $7 million. kr for training and development measures that may improve language understanding among minority language children of pre-school age. Furthermore, 7.5 million is distributed. to local development work to improve cross-border competence and cooperation for the benefit of disabled children or other specific needs for adapted care and training. Gender equality work in kindergarten — including the organisation of several men — shall be continued. For the first time, kindergartens have a practical research and development programme of a total of 26 million. kr. It is important to get more knowledge of children's lives in kindergarten, and it is important that development work in kindergarten is based on knowledge. That's $13 million. kr for research, which is distributed through the Norwegian Research Council. Furthermore, it's set at 13 million. kr for development work in kindergarten via the counties. It's going to add up to 20 million. kr specifically allocated to the county councillors to meet the Children’s Hail Lift. Training for managers and educational leaders is part of the plan. The heads of kindergartens are given the opportunity to be well schooled in the framework plan. Furthermore, free provision of further training in educational development for pre-school teachers will be facilitated. Such an offer has previously been a successful project at three colleges, and it is now scheduled to do so nationally from the autumn of 2006.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e1774	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. It is great that many important measures are being prioritised. Will these measures take the form of an action plan that will be made public and marketed in relation to what the Stortinge has previously stated that a person would like to have? When it comes to the quality of kindergartens, there has been a lot of discussion over the last few years about the number of kindergartens. It's very important. Price is important. But it's also important that we don't forget to discuss the quality of kindergartens. Everyone who delivers children to kindergarten wants to know that the children are doing well, and that they are enjoying themselves there. In the future, will the Council of State focus on a qualitatively good kindergarten, so that it not only becomes statistics on the number of places and prices, but that we constantly have the search light on quality and content? Many municipalities are under pressure to get enough nursery places, and sometimes it may seem to be quality-related.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e1783	User surveys show that some of the things we are most satisfied with in Norway are our kindergartens. There is a high level of user satisfaction among parents, and we have very high quality in Norwegian kindergartens. That's what we're going to have. I am pleased that the representative Molvær Grimstad underlines quality. Of course, for our government it is absolutely crucial. That is why we have tightened up the law in relation to the exemption. We have also adopted a new framework plan, which is a whole set of good measures to ensure the quality and educational provision of kindergartens. The 60 million. kr, which we now administer to kindergartens in connection with various competences, will strengthen the issues of our government, and which I understand the representative Molvær Grimstad stands behind, namely a lift of competence for the employees of the nursery. You also want to do research on how kindergarten actually works. We're in a huge uplift for a very important sector. That means we need more knowledge about what's going on in kindergarten.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e1794	Once again, I thank the Council of State for its answer. I know that one in some municipalities is discussing the goal of full child care coverage. It's very important. But I've realized that the pressure relative to the area in some places has become a discussion. If you have a larger area than what is required by law, you might use one. the extra space to build a new nursery and push in more so that the quality of some places may get a little worse. In the future, will the Council of State be well aware of whether the municipalities follow up and focus on quality, so that there is also a signal that we should not only have full child care coverage, but that we should also have a high-quality kindergarten?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e1803	If there's room in the example representative Molvær Grimstad, there's room for an extra nursery in a kindergarten, that's fine. That means that more children get a qualitatively good offer, if the area is within the laws and regulations we have. It's positive. Our government has a high focus on quality. We have a comprehensive series of conferences around Norway, often organised by the statesmen, where quality is the most important thing to focus on. It is the county officials who are in charge of this. They're careful that the quality is met. We have strengthened the quality requirements of kindergartens, so that this is a pedagogical offer. This has been strengthened in relation to the previous government. We still have a strong focus on this. Let me say that there is no reason to believe that the quality of kindergarten in Norway will continue to be strengthened, simply because parents and local kindergarten authorities, everyone, will be interested in it. I have not yet met the human being who does not believe that we should have high and increasing quality in Norwegian kindergartens.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e1814	I have the following questions for the Minister of Labour and Inclusion: ‘It is essential for municipalities to have the most predictable framework conditions possible to plan and implement actions in the training sector in the best possible way. This applies, inter alia, in relation to compulsory Norwegian training for residents in the reception of asylum. Some municipalities experience significant uncertainty about this. Will compulsory Norwegian training be re-introduced for all residents of the recipients of asylum, including those who have not received a residence permit, and when will this possibly enter into force?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e1823	First, let me point out that the rights and obligations of participation in training in Norwegian and community knowledge introduced from 1 September 2005 also apply to those who have been granted a work permit or residence permit but who still reside in asylum facilities pending their residence in a municipality. The host municipality of the recipient of the asylum is responsible for providing training for this group. The Soria Moria Declaration states that the Government will reintroduce Norwegian education for asylum seekers waiting for their applications to be dealt with. Actions launched in the Soria Moria declaration shall be initiated during the current ageing period. The Ministry is working to clarify a number of questions in order to reintroduce such training. For example, central questions are: issues relating to the demarcation of the target population and the relationship to the right and duty of participation in training in Norwegian and social knowledge under the Introduction Act. After the compulsory Norwegian training was completed, a scheme has been put in place. In addition, the question of who should be responsible for the implementation of Norwegian training for asylum seekers needs to be clarified, as well as the scope, intensity and content of training. The Ministry must further address the question of financing the scheme. At this stage, it is therefore too early to say anything about when such a scheme can be implemented, but I can assure you that the municipalities and other relevant actors will receive information about the scheme in good time before it is implemented.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e1834	I thank the Council of State for a positive response. The left considers that the current funding for people with a residence permit is very little predictable. If the reception e.g.: provides a person with Norwegian training from January to March, and the person moves, the receipt must send with that person seven eighths of the grant for the instruction. This results in operating losses and difficult addition conditions for Norwegian teachers, but also often delaying the start of Norwegian training. Does the Council of State see that this poses major operational difficulties for asylum recipients and municipalities, and that refugees and immigrants are thus receiving a worse offer?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e1843	First I have to say that this was something other than that question. But I can try to answer that as well. This new Norwegian funding mechanism was introduced by the previous government and is to be gradually introduced. So you could say that so far we have very little effect on the new way of calculating, because it represents so far a very small proportion of the total cost. But I feel that there are several municipalities that are critical of what the previous government did. I have also visited the head of the local central association, Halvdan Skard, who has thought that the new system has clear weaknesses. That is why I have said that we will be able to keep up with it. There's a discretionary pot in the system, which means you have to be able to adjust for bad effects, but we get to follow it. But I think it's impossible for me now, when the new system is just in place, to just turn it all back once again.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e1852	I thank you again for the answer. Mandatory Norwegian training is a positive activity in asylum recipients and one of the key factors in a successful integration process. How will the Council of State facilitate Norwegian training to become a targeted and positive offer in the reception of asylum?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e1859	Our thinking is that compulsory Norwegian training should be given to everyone, almost from day one. The idea behind this is that although we are aware that some of those who receive Norwegian training will not be allowed to stay in Norway, we believe that it is important that positive activity takes place in asylum recipients – and no one has hurt by learning a little Norwegian. The advantage is that you will certainly meet someone who will receive a residence permit, and who will therefore have a advantage when they start the introduction programme after they have received a residence permit. So there's a system that can only do good and nothing wrong, and those types of schemes I think we're going to be positive to initially.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e1868	I would like to ask the Minister of Justice the following questions: ‘Recently there happened again, one person sentenced to detention, attacked another person with a knife and injured him very seriously. In the evening of 27 April 2006, the criminal authorities claim that they did not know that the perpetrator had been discharged from Dikemark Hospital. The main problem is that responsible state agencies do not cooperate well enough, and random people end up as victims of this failure. What concrete action will the Council of State take to avoid similar incidents?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e1877	I have gone through the matter the representative refers to, but I am asking for an understanding that as Minister of Justice I cannot comment on such a single matter in detail. However, I would like to make it clear that the Criminal Service was informed that convictions were issued from hospitals, and that they then assumed responsibility for the follow-up of him. The fact that criminal justice has been expressed in the media is that it was perceived as problematic that there was no involvement prior to the Law Court's decision that convictions should be paroled and followed up by free care. I would like to stress that this case is quite special in the sense that the conviction was not subject to criminal law until the court took the decision to put him in custody and trial him. Of course, it is always unfortunate that parole officers commit new criminal acts. At the same time, you can never fully guard against this happening. However, I would like to stress that the Court of Justice's proceedings on the parole of detention sentences are very thorough. I am confident that the courts in such cases will take sufficient account of the security of society and the general perception of justice. On a general basis, I can also inform you that the Ministry of Justice and Police is carrying out a broad review of the procedures for the release of prisoners, including cooperation with other state agencies. I can also inform you that there is currently a broad review of the special reaction rules in cooperation between the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Health and Welfare. I'm referring to the fact that the new rules on inviolability and special reactions have now been in force for five years, and it's time for such an evaluation. The Ministry has found it appropriate to have an investigation team carry out the post-control. The investigatory team shall carry out an assessment of the depositary, including the functioning of the institution in accordance with its intention. The team of investigators shall also assess the need for a change in the detention system to ensure a gradual transition to a life of liberty, including the question of having an ‘open detention centre’ for the use of custodians who are in the final phase of the detention period — in contrast to being released in total. We aim to strengthen free care as early as this year, with a view to strengthening efforts to control those who have been paroled and those who have been released from custody.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e1894	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which I think is positive. I think it's important as long as we're going to have special reactions as a reaction form, that it has legitimacy in the population. This means that people have to feel confident that the system also meets the needs of society. Looking at the discussion that has taken place recently on the use of special reactions, and perhaps also a lack of coordination between different agencies, this is worrying. I record that the head of the forensic commission here expressed very clearly that we have failed today, we do not have enough coordination patterns between the justice sector and the health sector. That's what's my main concern. I would like the Council of State to maybe go a little bit deeper into it, if he can do it. Is it that way that we have too watertight shots? Do we have it that you define yourself too late into the responsibility around one person when you go from one regime to another? Is that the main problem, or is there any other thing that makes this cooperation difficult?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e1905	I share the concern of the representative Ellingen in relation to the challenges we face, and I fully agree that if we are to ensure the legitimacy of the representative, who was also involved, and the confidence of the people in this system, we are dependent on the least possible failure. It's just that it's what creates greater security for people, because these are some of the most difficult things we're facing. I am also pleased that the representative now sees that it is useful to go through the entire legislation, so that we can look at at at least some areas that I think should have particular focus. With regard to the unpredictable, which we cannot today condemn, but which goes out and falls between all the chairs, we have a work in progress divided between the Ministry of Health and Health and us. So the question, what happens to those who are going to be released from custody? Do we have the opportunity to exercise more progress in relation to that? And then finally, and there we're going to do reinforcements: the control is going to be better than it is today.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e1914	Once again, I appreciate the answers of the Council of State. As long as we have a common concern, we also have common opportunities to do something about it. It's also like that, not only in relation to the boundaries between the two different floors, but also within the floors, things that don't work well enough. The newspaper had an article on Sunday, May 7, where they included: showed that the prosecution authorities had forgotten to raise a case in a case where a hospital wrote out a person without checking out whether he was convicted or not. Unfortunately, it is individuals who commit the bombers when they have a responsibility to maintain the system. And any failure, which the Council of State itself was in upon, is something that concerns us all, for it questions the legitimacy of it. I could also imagine challenging the Council of State on this with the role of experts in the use of custody. Also there is one thing that creates debate in society, outside this house and not least inside this house. Does this mean that the Council of State will also look at that dimension when it comes to a broad review of the depositary and special reactions in general?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e1923	The answer is unconditionally yes to the last one, and it gives me the opportunity to stop the argument in relation to what we want to look at in the back check. I've claimed before, and I know that when, among other things, criminal justice. states that you should not release, so I believe that there are settings that should be given great weight. I want to reinforce those impulses in the judicial system somehow. Then you often, or sometimes, come into conflict with, for example. experts. Then I would also like to accept much of what the representative says in relation to the watertight bulkheads and the question of the distribution of responsibilities. It's a challenge for us, and that's why we've started a close cooperation with the Ministry of Health and Welfare in this area. I think this is actually not primarily about resources, but about being clear about who has power, who has authority, and who has responsibility. And we have the opportunity to do something. Then I want to say in the end that much of the custody practice is now being established, and the job that is being done, among other things. at Ila prison, shows that we also handle very many of these matters in a very good way. It's a shame it's going to fail, because it often creates the impression that it's going to fail everywhere. It doesn't.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e1943	This question has been raised. Question 20 has already been answered.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e1952	«Health West has reduced the volume of services purchased from private specialists by 35 pst. Can the Council of State guarantee that this reduction in the supply of health does not lead to increased waiting times/lists and that patients from Stavanger must travel to Bergen to a greater extent than before in order to have ear-nasal, orthopaedic and general surgery procedures carried out?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e1959	In recent years, there has been a significant increase in patient treatment and waiting times have been greatly reduced. In some areas, therefore, there is no longer an equal need to stimulate further growth in patient provision or to continue to be equally active. This will necessarily have to have consequences for private, commercial operators who have largely provided day-to-day surgical services. It is also, as the representative is well-known, the government's policy to limit the use of private, commercial actors in the specialist health service, but I would like to stress that they are a very useful supplement. I think it is very important to focus on the capacity of healthcare. Maximum use shall be made of the free capacity of public hospitals, including: through good work sharing in hospitals and between hospitals. I have therefore asked regional health companies in my management requirements to make the best possible use of available capacity in public hospitals. I have also started a trial with patients, who are supposed to help people get into hospital treatment more quickly. This government believes that key welfare tasks should be addressed primarily through the use of public hospitals. Of course, we do not want a ban on private solutions, but we want to limit the scope of purchasing agreements between regional health companies and private, commercial hospitals. When we have now assumed that agreements with private, commercial operators should be limited, it is natural for regional health businesses to critically assess the extent of agreements with private, commercial providers against their needs for services and the needs of each region. That's exactly what Health West has now done, which has led them to this year reducing the amount of surgical services purchased from private, commercial operators. There has been a positive development in waiting time in the Health West. In addition, I am aware that several healthcare companies in the region have a good balance of treatment capacity and that they also have some available capacity in several disciplines where they had previously had to complement private services. It's hard to guarantee something. It also applies in this area, of course. But I would like to remind you that this government has provided 500 million. kr more to the hospital for the current year than the previous government, where the Right was most closely involved. This means that this year we can treat 20 000 more patients than we could have done otherwise. Health West is known in a process where the allocation of new surgical arrangements is clear, but the deadline for appeals for award has recently expired. It is also the case that public health businesses in the Health West are now able to provide services with an ever shorter waiting time. In order to ensure that patients who require the most receive treatment first, patients with the right to the necessary health care should be given priority in front of patients without such a right. I would also like to remind you that the Government has given clear leadership to give priority to patient groups in the field of mental health protection, drug abuse, patients with chronic diseases and patients in need of rehabilitation and rehabilitation.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e1977	It will not help with any more money if it becomes less for the money that is granted, and there is a lot of evidence to suggest. We have already received signals that this reduction that has been announced has led to a one-month increase in hip replacement waiting time in Haugesund from 19 weeks to 8 months. Some of the waiting times at the ear-nose neck of the SUS are as old as from December 2004, but there is much evidence that waiting times are increasing. Is it the case that the Council of State will intervene against the Health West if, in a short time, increased waiting times can be demonstrated as a result of the reduction in private offerings? Or are these increased waiting times a concrete result of a misguided government policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e1984	I would like to stress at once that longer waiting time, of course, is not the policy of this government. In fact, by giving us more money for the current year, more patients will be treated than would have been done with the budget that was really on the basis. I am confident that Health West will do what they have been told to do, namely to ensure that the capacity of the public is used primarily, but in such a way that it becomes the shortest possible waiting time. So I stress that there is no prohibition on cooperating with private, commercial actors, but there is a signal that it will come down if one can make better use of the public capacity. Then I won't wonder what will happen if, if, if, if. I trust that Health West is in line with the driving rules that are given, and they do, and that we all have a common goal of having the shortest possible waiting time.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e1993	There are already increased waiting times. During the last two weeks, Haugesund private hospitals have experienced a triple in the number of enquiries from individuals with private health insurance. In the last two days, there are two patients who have turned and themselves will pay for a hip replacement. Does the Minister of Health not see that this reduction in the public use of private health leads to a two-part healthcare system, where those with a good economy can buy past health cows, while those with a poor economy are referred to longer and longer waiting times, as a result of the Government's political objective of reducing the private part of health services for which the public pays?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e1998	I want to distance myself from the reality description that the representative Höie here gives. If we were to talk about two-part healthcare, it was rather the government of which the Right was just a member, who stood for it, that the regional health companies were told by the then health minister that they would use far more private, commercial actors regardless of whether there was a free capacity in the public or not. When we say that we will now limit the use of it in order to make better use of the public's capacity and thus also make better use of the public money, it is of course that we should be able to reduce the waiting time further. I am not familiar with the figures that the representative here has shown over the last few days, but of course I shall look into that. They are not in line with the information I have received from Health West.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e2003	Question 22 has been dealt with earlier.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e2010	‘Treatment offers for morbid overweight are being given increasing attention, but many experience not getting a full offer. Several patients who have received and have undergone a slimming operation do not undergo surgery to remove excess skin. In severe cases, skin such as ‘hangers and slings’ in large folds may cause severe discomfort. For example, sleep problems can be mentioned because it is difficult to lie well, and clothing problems because no clothes fit. Such patients cannot be described as pre-treated. What will the Council of State do?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e2017	The treatment offered to seriously overweight people has improved significantly in recent years, but we are not in target. I understand very well that some patients who suffer from severe obesity, of course, feel this as a big problem. We've improved in surgery, and in lifestyle change. In each health region, as the representative is probably aware, there are separate centres that are responsible for following up this patient group in particular. At these centres, the patient shall be met in a holistic manner. The teams working there are multidisciplinaryly composed, and patients are followed up through several phases of treatment. It is a positive development that I understand that the representative Davøy has also noticed. The overall approach of the regional centres means that each patient must first undergo a thorough medical evaluation phase. For most people it will be relevant to start with life-changing treatment. It can be done outpatiently or through its own training centres. Treatment aimed at changing lifestyle may lead to a reduction in the patient’s life-style between 5 and 10 pst. by weight within six months. Such a result may give rise to significant health benefits in itself. Of course, for some patients surgical treatment may be relevant. This group of patients also needs life-changing treatment. This is offered to them both as part of the preparation of the operation and as a follow-up after the intervention. However, this form of treatment is very demanding and may lead to serious adverse reactions, such as: poor food intake, diarrhoea and – on which the representative Bavøy is in – redundant skin. The surgery itself is also associated with relatively high incidences of complications. The danger of serious complications is an important reason why only those with the most extensive problems of morbid obesity will receive this offer. So, of course, here, as in other areas, post-treatment needs to be adapted individually, and will be more or less frequent depending on the patient’s needs for follow-up over time. Several regional centres point to the lengthy and demanding process of following up some seriously overweight persons after surgery. After a large weight loss, some patients may get extraneous skin, as the representative Davøy points out. Professionals have briefed me that such skin often shrinks considerably by itself, and that therefore it should take some time after the operation before considering whether the patient needs corrective skin surgery. It is also important that the patient has achieved the most stable weight before considering such an intervention. In other words, as I see it, it is a medical-professional question to consider whether and when it is appropriate to perform that type of intervention. In this context, I would like to point out that these patients, in line with other patients, are subject to the provisions of the Patient Rights Act and the priority regulation. The emphasis here is on the medical assessment of each patient for the provision of healthcare. Thus, there are medical indications in the individual that should be critical for when and what type of treatment to provide — of course also for patients with severe skin distress due to excess skin. The treatment provision for serious overweight is still in a build-up phase. In 2004, it was carried out approx. 20 so-called obesity operations, while several hundred patients went through such operations last year. Several of the regional centres have made me aware that they have taken into account that some patients will have problems with extraneous skin, and have started working with plastic surgery departments. At present, there is no waiting time for such treatment, but other regional centres indicate that these patients are assessed under the current healthcare law — in line with other patients. Overall, I believe that regional health companies have taken part in developing surgical and lifestyle-changing treatment for seriously overweight people in a good way. However, we need to recognise that this treatment provision is still in a constructive phase, and that means that not everyone who would like to have that treatment gets it as quickly as they should probably, and that one may have capacity problems at some stage of the treatment process. It's not good enough per. Today, but I feel confident that regional health companies have a plan to further develop the offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e2036	I thank the Council of State for the answer. When I worked on the question, I also contacted the Obesity Association and was told that this was a pretty big problem for many patients. Once you have a slender operation, i.e. a surgical procedure, and it turns out, as it does in some cases, that there is a lot of extraneous skin, and the patient then feels no from the health care company that it is included in this operation or post-treatment that you should get help to remove excess skin, I believe that this patient gets no to what I would call a full treatment of his disease situation. Then we don't talk about it having to go for a while, because I agree with the Council of State that it must of course be time, and it must be medically thought about when you might get the new procedure. If I understood correctly, she said that this should also be part of the patient rights, to the extent that you actually need such an operation afterwards. Can the Council of State agree with me that if you need medical treatment, you have not finished? Because I have also been told that some patients from their doctor have received confirmation that a new operation is necessary, and they will not receive it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e2045	Let me first say that I understand very well that this is a big problem for some people, both to get the surgery they need, and not least the need to remove excess skin. I believe that there must be a medical-professional question – here I perceive that the representative and I agree – to consider when, if and, and I would have almost said, how such treatment should be carried out. But if a person needs that treatment, and the medical profession is that one should have it – and the offer is there, but I stress that we are unfortunately in a build-up phase, and that means that there is a little waiting time in some regions – people should, of course, receive such treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e2050	I am not quite satisfied with the answer, because I believe that when a patient is granted a slimming operation – the patient is very heavy, and you know that it may be very redundant skin – health care companies should take into account that after a certain period of time there may also be a need for a skin folder-related operation. That's what's my point, and I would very much like to have the Council's help so that signals are given to health companies that, when a patient is in such a situation, you have to bear in mind that after a certain time he or she should also get the new operation. Then he must not be in a new line of line with everyone else waiting for a plastic operation. My question is, I suppose, whether the Council of State can help and facilitate that those who are granted surgery will also receive the necessary after a certain period of time.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e2055	Of course, those in need of treatment should receive it, and it should be given priority in line with the laws and regulations in force. If medically-professionally considered that there must first be a surgical procedure – which in itself may have very serious complications, I would stress it, because there are not simple things we are talking about here – and the medical-professional assessment is that he also needs to remove excess skin, it is clear that the health care system must, as far as possible, facilitate this. However, we're not exactly on top in that area yet, but health regions are working on it, they've got the money to do that job as well. I understand that there is no disagreement between the representative Davøy and me as to whether we should, of course, ensure that people with these kinds of problems are also treated in the public health sector as far as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e2064	This question, from the representative Jan-Henrik Fredriksen to the Minister for Agriculture and Food, will be raised by the representative Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e2067	I have the following questions for the Minister of Agriculture and Food: ‘The number of reindeer in West Finland adopted by the Stortinget should have been 64 100 animals on 1 April 2005. The 2005 estimate of the management of sewage refers to an increase in animals that, with calf growth, would pass 150 000 animals. This is repeated in many ways in 2006. This can cause ecological and socio-economic disaster as well as animal tragedy and the mass death of reindeer. What will the Council of State do to maintain the decision of the Grand Duchy and to reduce the figure to a fixed level?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e2076	First of all, I would like to say that I am happy that the issue is addressed, and that environmental and resource issues are something that concerns the Storting. That's good, and I'm also going to help follow up. The question of how to reduce the reindeer numbers in West Finland to the level decided by the Reindriftstyrelsen in 2002 has been the subject here in Stortinget several times. The last time this question was raised was as late as the spring of 2005 when the previous Minister for Agriculture and Food made a proposal for a limited revision of the reindeer management law. The proposal included provisions on number reductions and new provisions on penalties. The background to this proposal was the need to implement legislative measures that could, in the short term, help to provide a basis for ecologically sustainable clean-up. In particular, the situation in West Finland was the reason why it was desirable to change the reindeer management law before a more comprehensive revision of the law was presented to the Stortinget. As you know, Stortinget chose not to deal with this bill. The situation today is therefore that we still do not have effective sanctions. I have taken this into account and have chosen different approaches to this issue. Before I go into how we work on renumbering, I have to correct and nuance the reindeer figure that the representative Kielland Asmyhr, on behalf of the representative Fredriksen, states for 2005. New censuses show that the reindeer in West Finland per year. 1 April 2006 is approx. 88 000 animals. It is therefore somewhat lower than last year at the same time. Then the figure was per. 1 April at approx. 91,000 animals. So the development of the reindeer is going in the right direction. There is reason to believe that this is partly linked to the fact that some deliberate changes have been made to the reindeer management policy, in particular the provision of economic instruments over the reindeer management agreement. There are also some other positive features that we have to take with us when we discuss this matter. The winter pastures have been very good with optimal snow conditions this year. This can be noticed by the fact that the reindeer is now in good standing. I've had the opportunity to see that in winter, and that's good. The market situation is still very good, which can be attributed to the active marketing of reindeer meat. This has in turn had an effect on prices achieved for reindeer owners. Another positive feature is that the results of a summer 2005 grazing survey show a positive development on the low pastures, especially on the winter pastures. Despite these positive signals, it is still necessary to reduce the reindeer in West Finland. However, it is necessary to do so through multi-level actions: Furthermore, provision must be made to stimulate increased slaughter outlets. In this context, there are, for example: need to focus on both the demand and supply side. Product development, use of infrastructure, cooperation between the actors in the value chain and import quotas are important here. It has been working actively in these areas in the last year, and I want to keep working on it. Experience so far from the work on renumbering is useful to bring with it further work. The Purity Management Board has therefore started an assessment of the processes around the determination of the maximum cut-off value and the implementation of the cut-off value adjustment. The assessment will be available for the autumn. Stable framework conditions are a necessary prerequisite for sustainable clean-up. This is also pointed out by the National Audit Office in their study of reindeer grazing resources in Finnmark. The establishment of boundaries between reindeer areas, districts and lateral areas is a central part of this work. This work is currently under way and will be an important contribution to achieving a balance between reindeer and grazing resources. As pointed out at the outset, today’s redundancy law is deficient in terms of sanctioning options in the event of breaches of laws and public decisions. Instead of promoting a limited revision of the reindeer management law, I have chosen to give priority to the creation of a new and complete reindeer management law. In this work we have held a number of consultation meetings with Sametinget and NRL. I was sailing in Karasjok for a short time back and had a meeting with the Sametinget and NRL there. Once this law has been passed, we will be able to have a law that both caters for the needs of reindeers for an appropriate regulation of the internal conditions, as well as more operational rules for the management and management of reindeer, including penalty provisions. I intend to submit the Stortinget proposal for a new reindeer management law by October this year. Experience so far has shown that the work on numerical adjustment is not a simple task. In my opinion, therefore, such a broad and comprehensive approach to the problem, as I have explained, will be the most effective way to achieve results.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e2099	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It is true, as the Council of State says, that this issue has been dealt with in the Storting a number of times earlier without the number of pure having fallen significantly. The situation in West Finland is precarious in many ways, and questions can be asked about whether the industry itself is able to deal with this issue. Voluntary measures have been tried a number of times. I expect the Council of State to put this in full focus now, and that he will consider coercive action against the industry in order to bring about a sharp decrease in the number of pure, so that it will be proportionate to the grazing resources at Finnmarks. There is no doubt that the reindeer have to be significantly reduced, and the voluntary line that has been so far cannot continue. Will the Council consider imposing coercive measures?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e2106	As I said, I come back to Stortinget with a proposal for a new sewage treatment law during the autumn, probably in October. In this context, we will jointly have a good opportunity to work with individual elements both in the legal text and in relation to the practical design of policies. I am pleased with the commitment to the Advancement Party and hope we can have a good process when the matter comes to Stortinget. My starting point is that ecology and sustainability must be an overall entry point in relation to this. That means that we have to have tools that make the reindeer relative to the boundaries of ecology and sustainability. It must be possible to enforce. In addition to that, I will not go into the details now and come back, as I said, with a full permission for the autumn.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e2113	I thank you for your answer. The Progress Party is looking forward to the Council of State making proposals for reindeer law in the Grand Duchy, and we will contribute constructively when it comes to dealing with it. It's true, as the Council of State says, that ecological conditions have to be taken into account when determining the number of pure. However, we assume that when the Council of State makes proposals for a new law for the Storting, it will contain measures that will allow us to overcome this problem once and for all.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e2120	My intention to propose a new redeployment law for Stortinget is definitely to find solutions in relation to a difficult situation, among others. it has a clean line up to the boundaries set by ecology and sustainability, especially in West Finland.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e2129	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Fisheries and Coast: ‘There has been some strong criticism by the Government of the Fuzzy Fisheries Policy. In the April 28 issue of Aker Seafoods, the group leader says among other things that there may be more permissiveness because of unclear policies and lack of flexibility. Does the Council see that the great uncertainty that has been created can lead to problems in fishing and fish processing, and what will it do to solve these problems?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e2138	In the Soria Moria Declaration, our fisheries policy has been eradicated in seven precise sections and 22 points, and for the fishing industry we have priorities that coincide with the industry's work, by building on our advantage of access to high-quality, fresh raw material, which ensures stable access to the processing industry. I have also registered criticisms and threats of permissiveness because of unclear policies and lack of flexibility, but to make it quite clear: if we are here to deal with individual applications, these are still dealt with in accordance with the rules that were also applicable under the previous government, with one exception, namely the stop in the structuring of fishing fleets, which we introduced in October. It was implemented because we want to evaluate some fundamental changes in the structural measures, which were implemented by the previous government. The stop was already announced in the Soria Moria statement. However, we made adjustments in the stop in order to ensure that people who were in a structuring process had an adverse impact on us. However, Aker Seafoods, to which the representative Løvik refers in his question, was not affected by the structural break. The company also writes in its quarterly report for the fourth quarter of 2005 that this ‘will not immediately have a direct impact on Aker Seafoods’. In a press release dated 21 October, the company also wrote that ‘the fleet has already been structured for 2006’. I therefore do not see that there should be a basis for the claim in the question. If it is now the case that some of the Aker Seafoods’ businesses experience unexpected lay-offs, it must be due to conditions other than the changes that this government has made.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e2149	I want to thank you for your answer. Even if what the Council of State says is seven precise sections of the Soria Moria Declaration, it has so far been difficult to get action. It has been to put things 'wait', and it has been to put things 'freeze'. What worries me is not primarily the example I used in the question, but the fact that I feel that this is a general hold in much of Fisheries-Noreg. We cannot 'freeze' policy. This is an international industry. We know, for example. that white fish now live on the European market in the fillet for less than DKK 20 per year. kilograms, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, We have to be able to compete out there. We can't just add aside all the restructuring and wait one year. It will be a relatively wasted year. Without increasing profitability and better profitability, the fishing industry will not be able to contribute to the growth of Norway and its regions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e2158	I do not recognize myself in the reality described by the representative here. I just came from the big seafood fair in Brussels, and it is anything but pessimism that characterizes Norwegian fishing industry at the moment. The government is in the process of putting the Soria Moria Declaration into practice, and we will be coming back soon with, among other things. a matter of district allowances, which the representative Løvik and I have discussed several times in this Chamber. We are also working on bombs with the review of the delivery conditions, which will just strengthen the industry in vulnerable areas. Then I would also like to point out the considerable effort that the Government has made against overfishing in the Barents Sea, for which Aker Seafoods has just given the Government praise, and which gives, and will give, results for the industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e2167	I thank you again for the answer, and I fully share the stance of the Council of State. There has been an optimism over the last few years, because one has received a more profitable industry, both at sea and on land. But the stops we now see, both in terms of structural arrangements, such as the Council of State, and district quota schemes – the ambiguity that lies there – are undoubtedly harmful to future Norwegian fisheries. We have to get clarity as soon as possible. I am very pleased that, in a previous debate, on 15 March, the Council of State stated that ‘it is obvious that the quantity set aside under the district quota system should, of course, go to companies that operate economically. We shall not subsidise companies that are on the brink of bankruptcy'. Nevertheless, it is uncertain how this should be done in practice because some have to give up these district allowances to be allocated by the county councils. I hope that we can get a clarification as soon as possible. What will be the concrete outcome of the department when it comes to district quotas?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e2176	I share the impatience of the representative, Mr Løvik, to see the red-green fisheries policy in practice. I just want to make sure once again that it will lead to good competitiveness and facilitate good profitability in our fishing industry. I would also strongly reject the fact that the uncertainty surrounding the fisheries policy could provide the basis for alerts to permit.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e2185	I will ask the Minister for Fisheries and Coastal Affairs the following questions: ‘Overfishing constitutes large values and is also a threat to marine fish stocks. The measures against overfishing have so far been inadequate and have had no particular effect. A new instrument proposed by the Council of State is to refuse illegal fishing vessels, access to Norwegian ports and services. Does the Council of State think it is right for industry to put pressure on the government’s lack of policy to control overfishing?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e2194	The fight against overfishing in the Barents Sea is one that this government takes very seriously. Work on illegal, unregistered and unreported fisheries is a high priority. In this context, the Government has strengthened the capacity of the Coast Guard to control resources and has provided Fisheries Directorate with funds to strengthen the overall effort against overfishing. 90 pst. of the populations of Norway tax, between Norwegian and foreign jurisdiction areas. The extensive illegal overfishing of these stocks takes place largely outside the Norwegian fishing jurisdiction by vessels not flying the flag of Norway and the catch is landed outside Norway. This is a significant challenge in achieving responsible management. Norway alone cannot win the fight against international crime. In order to solve the problem, this government has placed great emphasis on establishing binding international cooperation against overfishing. Not least, we ask all states to ensure that they do not land illegally caught fish in their ports and that they do not facilitate unregulated fishing. In addition to working with other countries bilaterally or regionally, Norwegian fisheries authorities are also working to determine which measures can be implemented nationally within a framework of international law with a view to preventing Norwegian ports from being used as a base for illegal activities. We can't have a driving role internationally without sweeping at our own door. The government will come back to Stortinget with this in an appropriate way. I think most people will see that the economic consequences of not introducing measures and letting overfishing continue, will in the long run be more burdensome for business than what is the alternative. This also applies to those who deliver goods and services to the fleet. They depend on the fleet's performance and willingness to pay. It gets the fleet when fishing for stocks that are in good condition. I also assume that Norwegian traders today have received the message from the Government and have backed up both moral and financial efforts not to engage in economic relations with actors involved in unregulated fishing on regulated stocks in the Barents Sea.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e2209	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It is clear that everyone has a responsibility here to help stop uncontrolled and illegal fishing in the Barents Sea first and foremost, but the authorities are clearly responsible for the main responsibility here. Putting the burden on the industry, it's those who serve a ship that comes into port, or the fishing industry as such, I think would be very unfortunate. You have to deal with the legislation that is. The provision of service to vessels may not be omitted solely on grounds of suspicion. I just want to remind the Council of State that the quota for this year was reduced by 20 pst. as a result of uncontrolled overfishing in the Barents Sea. How much reduction in overfishing in the Barents Sea does the Council expect it to be during this year compared with last year?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e2218	It's too early to say how large the numbers of overfishing will be this year. We just got the numbers last year. They're higher than what we'd like. Therefore, the Government will continue to give priority to the fight against overfishing in the Barents Sea. It is quite clear that these are very complex issues, which need to be addressed at national level on the one hand, in cooperation with Russia and on the other hand through cooperation with other European countries and with international bodies on the other. I expect that we will be able to begin to see the results of the fight against overfishing already this year, but it will probably take a considerable longer time before we are rid of overfishing as such. Among other things, it is related to: together with the fact that the previous government had to a very small extent focused on this very important issue, so that it is only now that we have really started the international effort. But precisely because we have a high profile on this and are an international initiator, we also need to keep order at home, so that no one can accuse us of housing illegal ships in our ports.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e2227	I thank the Council of State for the answer and am pleased that the Council of State confirms that overfishing in 2006 will be lower than in 2005. I fully agree that we have international obligations, but we also actually have obligations to clean up on our own way home. It is okay to have agreements with other authorities in port control, but for the Progress Party, the most important thing is to ensure that crime is not committed. Then you can't take the healing trail. Then you actually have to take the chain where the crime is committed, and it's out in the Barents Sea. One of the means we have raised in the Progress Party is to strengthen the Coast Guard considerably. Then it's not about tens of millions. That's what hundreds of millions are talking about. Because that's what the Coast Guard dream is, and that's what's going to be the most effective way to take those that commit crime out in the Barents Sea. Then is my question to the Council of State: can we expect a strong strengthening of the Coast Guard already in the revised national budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e2238	I just want to repeat that the fight against overfishing must be conducted in several arenas, and that we must take action in a wide range of fields. Preventing the illegal catch of fish from entering the market is one of the areas we have to work with. If there is no market for the illegally caught fish, there is no incentive to catch the fish illegally. So that work is important. We must also at all times look at whether our legislation at home is good enough. If it's not, we have to work to improve it. In terms of appropriations and budgets, the government must be allowed to come back to Stortingen with it when we are going to get back to Stortingen with it – not now.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-10.ana.ud1109e2250	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word under Section 37(a) of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
