ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-09.ana.ud1041e51	The representative of Laila Bavøy will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-09.ana.ud1041e54	On behalf of Åse Gunhild Woie Duesund, Ola T. Lånke and myself, I would like to make a proposal to set up ethical committees in nursing homes.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-09.ana.ud1041e59	The representative Peter Skovholt Gitmark will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-09.ana.ud1041e62	I have the great pleasure on behalf of the representatives of Erna Solberg, Trond Helleland, Torbjørn Hansen and myself to make a private proposal to reduce the purchase fees on the car and to convert the purchase fees on the car to be based on CO2 emissions, so that it facilitates a safer and more environmentally friendly car park.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-09.ana.ud1041e70	The representative of May-Helen Molvær Grimstad will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-09.ana.ud1041e73	On behalf of Hans Olav Syversen, Bjørg Tørresdal and myself, I want to promote a Document No. 8-proposal for maximum rest periods per week for children in kindergarten.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-09.ana.ud1041e78	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-09.ana.ud1041e92	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 1301]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-09.ana.ud1041e109	At the request of the Foreign Affairs Committee, the President will propose that the maximum speaking time for speeches by the main speakers from each party group and members of the Government be set at 10 minutes and for other speakers at 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers of each party group and five lines with replies after the contributions of members of the Government. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-09.ana.ud1041e116	"Norway is a small country in the world," said former Prime Minister Korvald. Can a small country like Norway, and should Norway, play an international role? My answer to both questions is yes. Of course, the most important task of foreign policy is to safeguard national interests and own security. But Norway had been a poor country if our ambitions ended there. Norway is not just one of the richest countries in the world. It is also the best country in bu i, according to the United Nations. In my view, we have a moral duty to look beyond our own borders and our own narrow self-interests. Our ambition must be to be involved and make the world a better place. As a small country in the world, we can and must act differently from others to make us listen. In one of Esop's fables the sun and the wind about who is strongest. To decide the battle, they were able to paint their forces on a hiker. The one who first got off his coat was strongest, they became some about. First out was the wind. He bled by all the forces, but the only result he got was that the man held the coat tighter around him. Then it was solo's turn. She looked forward behind a cloud and sent her warm rays towards the wanderer. After a short time he had to lighten the suit, and took off his coat. The warm rays of the sun overwhelm the cold wind. I think we have something to learn from this story. I think an open and stretched hand can be at least as effective a weapon as a fist. A door that is on fire can be safer than one that is locked and bolted. Dialogue and interaction must be our means to achieve this. That's why I don't have the great faith in boycott, threats about boycott, or other reactions that close the dialogue. Of course, this does not mean that a person should be yielding or not complying with his own principle. However, through dialogue, networking, knowledge, investment, trade and exchange, a relationship can be built. Through these relationships, one can develop our values of democracy and human rights. Through these relationships, a set requirement can be met and knowledge disseminated. The fact that Norway is a small country makes us big in such a context. Norway has played a decisive role in making conversations and reconciliations in several years and in different conflicts. A larger country may not be able to play this role. One of the main features of the Government's foreign policy is to take advantage of this role that Norway has been given to promote peace, reconciliation and development. In the last few days, we have witnessed events that we would hardly have believed were possible. Quite unacceptable events have been directed against Norway and Norwegian interests. Although the drawings of Muhammad triggered these reactions that we have seen from several countries, most researchers are aware that there are more profound reasons behind the scale and seriousness of the reactions we have seen. The situation in the Middle East and other countries is very serious. Lack of democracy and freedom of expression combined with generally difficult living conditions have made it easier for extreme groups to exploit the situation. Many suggest that what we have witnessed has been as much political as religiously motivated. Governments without legitimacy in the people have used their senses to strengthen their own position. The race against Norway and the Nordics is based on a generalization of what we stand for in this country. In the same way as it is completely wrong, it would be totally wrong to put all Muslims in charge of the actions that a few people have done. When we think about the seriousness of the actions that have been directed against Norway, I think that the Norwegian debate has been sober and factual, and I think that not least the Norwegian Muslims have a large part of the era for it. The choice in the Palestinian Self-Government gave a different outcome than many hoped. The crushing saying to Hamas was a great surprise to most, including Hamas itself. The choice was free and independent. International observers pinked the implementation, and the losers accepted the defeat and went off. In other words, we have here a democratically implemented choice, which is rare in this part of the world. Further development is a major challenge for Hamas, but also for the international community. After the election, some of the items are designed to withdraw the international support from the Palestinian territories and from the powers of self-government. In my view, that will be a completely wrong signal. The West has called for democratic processes and elections. If we now turn our backs on because we don't like the results of these processes, for all the worlds, we show that our calls weren't meant to be serious, and that we weren't really so interested in the Palestinian people's view. By turning our backs on the Palestinians, we will once again show double standards in relation to processes in the Middle East. Instead, we should ask ourselves the question of Corphor Hamas's water. A very depressing situation in the Palestinian territories, the Israeli occupation, allegations of corruption and lack of prospects, and not least that one did not feel that the situation is getting better, is much of the explanation. The old government had not made progress for its citizens, and in Palestine, as in many other countries, the voters chose to try something new. We do not need to impose requirements on the Palestinians that we do not impose on others, but of course we must set the same requirements for the new Palestinian government to recognise their neighbours and to resume negotiations with Israel. In Israel there should also be a choice. We're going to hope that it's the moderate forces that come out. In any case, we have to set the same requirements for a new Israeli government. Only by mutual respect and negotiation can a lasting solution be found to the problems in the area. The Northern Region is a bet area for the new government. The Norwegian sea areas are seven times the size of mainland Norway. This is a very rich sea area, and we have a clear interest in keeping these. In the north, there are particularly four main challenges that I see. It is the border negotiations, and it is fisheries, energy and the environment. These challenges are related. They may be contradictory, but properly managed, we can also achieve a positive development in the area. We need to improve the management of fisheries resources. There must be an end to the environmental crime and economic crime associated with illegal fishing. We can only do that in cooperation with others; Russia and the EU have a special responsibility. The environmental challenges in the north are great, and they can be particularly great if we get global warming. This is also a challenge for Norway to find a solution with other countries. We should stand still as a driver for international negotiations on mandatory reductions in greenhouse gas emissions. There is now a great deal of optimism about the development of North Norway, and this is particularly true of the ringing effects of petroleum activity. I am myself from that part of the country that may have now benefited most directly from oil and gas resources. In my own municipality, the population has doubled, we have a thriving business life, we have received good public offerings, and I now hope that North Norway will share in the same development. Of course, the oil activity in the north must take place within strict environmental frameworks, but in my view there is also a good environmental argument for a certain activity in our part of the Barents Sea. On the Russian side, it will be activity anyway. By having become the most stringent standards on our side, we can also participate in and influence what is happening on the Russian side. I also believe that cross-border cooperation will increase the basis for food exchange, and that it will help to increase both the standard of living and the quality of life on both sides of the border. The world is more than what's covered in the media, and it's a paradox that some crises and disasters get full media coverage, while other crises get completely forgotten. Africa in particular has our victims for the last time. For example: The tsunami in the Indian Ocean and the earthquake in Pakistan got a lot of attention all over the world, and the war in the Congo, where the effects are much bigger, almost impossible to reach the headlines, although the number of deaths is many times greater. This also affects the ability to collect money for these areas. Therefore, it is particularly important that the United Nations has a possibility to deal with such crises when they occur. I'm glad Norway supports the United Nations and provides financial assistance to make this possible. I started by saying that we should have a perspective beyond what is our own narrow self-interest. But after the last few days, I actually think it's hard to define what less self-interest is. Many of the events we have seen are the result of distress and suffering in other countries. I think that Norway is involved in making the world a better place, that we stretch out a hand to a people in need, in fact, also participate in securing our own freedom and our own security here in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-09.ana.ud1041e154	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-09.ana.ud1041e157	The Chair of the Foreign Affairs Committee spoke about the Palestinians and possible demands, or non-requirements, and the reason for making demands. We experienced a choice that, at least in retrospect, did not turn out to be particularly surprising. But wasn't it also about that we didn't have the ability, would, desired, dared to make the necessary demands on Palestinian leadership, and that corruption, the unculture, the need on the Palestinian side were allowed to break in such a way as extreme forces, such as Hamas, were able to exploit, so that they won through a democratic election? Do we not do the Palestinian people a bear service by failing to make just strict demands?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-09.ana.ud1041e162	Of course, strict requirements must be met. In particular, strict requirements shall be imposed when Norway has financial resources. What I think is important, however, is that we do not have a system of dual morality, which makes special demands for some countries, some groups and some actors in a conflict, but we do not make the same demands on the other side. I believe, of course, that those who lost their elections in Palestine have a great responsibility for it. At the same time, I think that the previous Palestinian authorities were in an unusually difficult situation, where not least the Israeli occupation made it impossible to make a real progress for the Palestinian people, and that there is one of the main reasons why it went as it went. What's my main point now is that we don't have to use this opportunity to close the door, but rather try to influence the new powers in this area to meet their neighbors.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-09.ana.ud1041e171	Both the presentation and the members of the Foreign Affairs Committee have now focused heavily on current and northern issues. It's important and big things, but when you focus on what's very current here, it's quick to lose something else. I am concerned that the northern regions should not be shadowing our neighbourhoods. We are facing a major and important development in our neighbourhoods. Both Belarus and Ukraine shall have elections within the next month, but the Government’s statement did not mention it in a word. The Chair of the Foreign Affairs Committee did not mention this either. Belarus may be what is almost a dictatorship in our neighbourhood and in Europe today. Ukraine has a fragile democracy. It's about 10 million. people in Belarus, it is 57 million. human beings in Ukraine, and it concerns situations that are quite crucial. What is the Labour Party's policy in these areas?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-09.ana.ud1041e178	The situation in Belarus is a stumbling block to European society as a whole. I have to be honest and say that Norway's role here must be working with other European countries. I myself have been involved, through the Council of Europe, as an observer of the elections in Belarus. The result was that we didn't approve the choice, and Belarus was left out as an observer, which we believe helped to increase the pressure on the authorities there. And of course, it's so that one could probably have had a larger activity associated with this area. I totally agree that we need to have a foreign policy based on the problems that we see arise, and not to a large extent let's take the lead of what's up in the media at any given time. Our role in these questions must be to work closely with our allies, so that we can increase the pressure on Belarus, and at the same time be involved in supporting the democratic forces we see in these countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-09.ana.ud1041e185	I listen with great interest to the inauguration of the Chair of the Foreign Affairs Committee. It was the first step in a purely foreign policy debate here in the Chamber, and in my view it contained many perspective-rich thoughts. It's, basically, nothing I disagree with in the analyses that were done. On the other hand, I was rather surprised that the first newspaper post I saw from the Chair of the Foreign Affairs Committee went against what he said here in the introduction. Then he talked about that even a small country that Norway had a responsibility to do its own. Norway has a tradition — through voluntary organisations, through individuals and through our authorities — to make an international effort. The new leader of the First Foreign Committee is actually going against the new Oslo Centre for Peace and Human Rights. Does the Chair of the Foreign Affairs Committee think that there was a suitable debut in the public debate, and is the view of the new centre that appeared in his newspaper, the Labour Party's view?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-09.ana.ud1041e192	First of all, I would like to say that I am pleased that the Christian People's Party can join in the post that I have just held, and that I will be very honest, I feel that the Labour Party and the Christian People's Party are very close to each other in many of these questions, not least in relation to having development as an important part of Norwegian foreign policy and thus in promoting development in other parts of the world, and not least in helping to secure our own everyday lives. And then, unfortunately, it's not all a win and do, which gets the same attention. I want to deny that I have only had an output. I have had several reading posts in several Norwegian newspapers on different topics after I became the head of the Foreign Affairs Committee. When I wanted to discuss this new center that was created on a principle basis, it was precisely because I wanted to ask some fundamental questions. Unfortunately, the level of debate in Norway has become such that nothing can be debated without entering into a framework and being made either as an attack on persons or as a partisan. But what was my purpose was to get a discussion on a fundamental basis about something new, and I'm at it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-09.ana.ud1041e201	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-09.ana.ud1041e205	First, I would like to thank the Minister of Foreign Affairs for a very thorough presentation. Of course, with the broad agreement on foreign policy in general in Norway, the Progress Party can support this presentation very much. I'm not going to spend a lot of time in the areas we agree on in my article now. Recent events show us that the world is not in harmony; there are conflicts at many levels. We don't want to describe it as a religious struggle. It's not a civilisation fight, either, but to the most extent it's a value struggle. It is about fundamental values such as freedom of expression, freedom of belief, freedom to be different and freedom to stand up to what is prevailing and ruling. These values are secured in our opinion by democratic rule and secularized societies. Totalitarian states that base their power on a fundamentalist interpretation of religion are the worst basis for good values. Provided we agree that democracy and peace are worth fighting for both at home and outside, how do we implement our foreign policy? How do we promote the values that we stand for and that we believe all people will benefit from? Here I would say that it has been done wrong, and it is done wrong. All too often, we ignore or close our eyes to the shortcomings of a state, totalitarian tendencies and obvious violations of fundamental human rights. We may explain that they have a different culture, they have no experience of democracy, we cannot impose our values on them – or that democracy building takes time. It's always an explanation of why things are the way they are, and maybe they stay the way they are. I do not believe that there is a prescription to create freedom that can only be adopted – far from it – but I believe that our policies, along with the policies of other democratic states, make a difference. Dialogue and respect are two of the most commonly used words in recent days, and with good reason. These are words that are positively charged and signal the will for peaceful human relations. But can everyone demand respect, and deserves everyone to participate in dialogue? Is there a limit to who we can sit down with? Do certain assumptions have to be in place? Let me give you a little historical perspective to make it clear what's meant. About 30 years ago, a military junta crashed Argentina with a hard hand. Political killing and torture were part of the Argentinean life. While this was happening, would it make sense to cooperate extensively with Norway and Argentina? Would it be right to finance the junta's military expenditure? And would it be right to have a human rights dialogue in one room, while the most cruel actions were carried out in the other? The examples are many – very many – on similar regimes that at different times have been of such a nature that, at least in retrospect, the cruel nature of the regime can easily be established. In today's modern communications society, we unfortunately know too much about what is happening in these regimes, almost as it happens. Today, unfortunately, there are many such regimes, regimes that both in law and action violate human rights strongly, which define women as second-class citizens, who do not tolerate freedom of faith, and who persecute ethnic minorities, to mention something. How do we deal with such states today? Should we always show respect? Are we always going to be willing to engage in dialogue, or are we going to make demands? And if we do that, it's going to be said that we can't make contact. We just isolate the problem, it gets claimed. I think, unfortunately, that by showing respect and dialogue for obvious despotic regimes, we only help to legitimize their existence, and show for both internal and external opposition that this country has the backing of the outside world. We must give respect, and we must have dialogue, but it must be with states that deserve it, states that have set a course against democracy, or that have a climate where dialogue is fruitful. There are such states, even in the Arab world. However, countries that make choices also have to withstand demands and critical searchlights. Such a differentiated approach would be a deliberate discrimination that says something about how important we see values, and how serious we are breaching human rights. The world society must set itself up for those countries where the reformer is great. We must not just encourage more democracy; we must be involved in ensuring it. It's about extensive trade cooperation, maybe collaboration in research and education, and, as the representative Sponheim talked about yesterday, a people for people-cooperation, to mention something that could be an arrow to promote democracy in a part of the world where it's been relatively unknown. In concrete terms, what I have now said is that we mean – at the moment of the presentation yesterday – that the time has come to participate in any human rights dialogue with Iran. And we think it is unwise that Secretary of State Johansen travels to Iran. With regard to the MR dialogue, I would like to refer to a previous meeting between the Foreign Affairs Committee and Peace Prize winner Shirin Ebadi and her criticism of the dialogue that has taken place between the EU and Iran. Most disappointed was the Progress Party over the presentation on the conflict between Israelis and Palestinians. We agree with the Government that we must support the Ministry of Business for President Abbas during the transitional period. But when the Minister of Foreign Affairs makes a point that we must not make too strict demands on the new government, we do not agree – on the contrary. Here we experience that e.g. the said Quartet has been very clear in its claims to Hamas for the recognition of the State of Israel and for the cessation of all terrorist activities. These are essential requirements. Here again, I want to challenge the government of whom we want to associate with, what values we want to represent, and not least what values we want to promote. Lack of ability to distribute well-being and combat corruption must take a great deal of the blame for the defeat of the current government in the West Bank and Gaza. Corruption has been staggering and is well documented. International patience with this unculture has not helped to promote good values. On the contrary, this has opened the way to more extreme forces. Once again, our policy has an effect. And we think the effect of a good policy is better in the long term than the effect of a clever and naive policy, where the fear of encountering someone is greater than the will to fight against unculture and tyranny. The Progress Party is today promoting a proposal that we believe describes a minimum of the requirements of future governments in the Palestinian territories must satisfy to deserve our cooperation and participation. I take up the above-mentioned proposal to demand that future Palestinian governments recognise the State of Israel and refrain from all violence and terror. The northern regions are important, and I am very happy that the Foreign Minister spent so much time in the northern areas yesterday. When I'm not going to spend that much time on it, it's because here we essentially agree with the Government, and we agree that this is probably the most important task for Norwegian foreign policy in the coming years. Nevertheless, we are concerned about whether our capacity to be present is sufficient – we have taken this up in this room earlier – and then we think especially militarily. Now we record that one has this for assessment, and wants it for continuous assessment, but visibility is important. As we now experience it, we have a defense that is neither large enough nor robust enough to be sufficiently visible. We believe that there must be work to ensure that we have the necessary resources, not least in relation to operations. For example, we want money and crews to run the new frigates that are soon on their way, from an annual perspective. In this perspective, we are also concerned that we do not take on tasks and responsibilities militarily that make us lose the ability to be present in, for example. The Barents Sea. We agree with NATO's new strategy and the importance of contributing abroad, but this must be done with caution. And when it comes to dealing with new, heavy problems in Africa, we're skeptical, not to say outright negative to it. We believe that this will extend our resources in a way that is not reasonable. We are already struggling with recruiting crews for foreign operations. This problem will only be further reinforced if we now take on new tasks, at least with the dimension we have in today's defense. If it's the will of the majority to bet more on the defense, of course we'll get back to it. Finally, I would just like to mention Norway's role in relation to peace mediation. We have been critical of this for some time, not because we are negative about Norway's participation, but we believe it is a bit of a focus in Norwegian foreign policy. Nevertheless, there are many important tasks that we do. I want to mention Sri Lanka in particular, because there we are in a critical phase. We see it so that all the forces must now be invested in order to get to something. This is not the time to do anything half-hearted – not that I have any idea that the government will do something half-hearted, but I think you have to bet on a wide front and give it a time perspective, for a process that goes out for years more, I don't think any of the parties are served with.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-09.ana.ud1041e269	The representative of Morten Højlund has taken up the proposal he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-09.ana.ud1041e274	I feel that we can rewrite this post by getting one of the Phantom's slogans: tough on those tough ones. That may be okay, but if that leads to a closing of the doors, and not least that one increases the legitimacy of some government in their own people by getting an external enemy, I think it's the wrong strategy. The Progress Party is the party that differs most in Norwegian foreign policy, especially when it comes to aid policy. I think the last few days have shown that helping people out of a difficult situation actually also helps to secure our own situation here in the country. We have now seen attacks on Norwegian public institutions abroad, but we have also seen a great danger of Norwegian commercial investment. Does not the Progress Party see that their proposals to reduce aid by 9 billion kroner will actually help to make the situation in Norway more insecure for us who live here?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-09.ana.ud1041e281	Hardly against the tough – I live well with that description in relation to aid and development, important issues. We feel that we have a good and comprehensive development policy. And to take one perspective, emergency help, we feel absolutely that we're at full height. We feel that we have an offensive trade policy that will meet the interests of developing countries in a very good way. Debt-lending policy, where we consider it to be paramount with all due respect, is one of the key elements in creating fundamental prerequisites for development. And not least what I tried to sketch about an active relationship with democracy building and freedom building, which is probably one of the most absent in developing countries, is a good tool and a much better tool than continuing with assistance, which has had a very varying effect.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-09.ana.ud1041e286	On 30 January, Siv Jensen stated according to NTB: ‘The only way we can force the UN to start the cleanup is to threaten to stop the cash flow. For too long, Norway has uncritically pushed money into the scandalous colossal colossal. There is reason to ask questions as to whether the necessary criticism has been omitted because many in the Norwegian state apparatus have wanted a position in the UN.» And she says, ‘The UN shall not be a place where the North shall sunbathe in positions.’;» Apart from the fact that this is a funny statement about some of the Northmen who have done a good job in the UN, from Trygve Lie to Gro Harlem Brundtland, Jan Egeland and Terje Rød- Larsen, many of us are concerned that the world has rarely needed a multilateral organisation that respects international law more than now. It does not prevent us from being concerned about reforming. It can be done actively within the system, or you can sit outside and wait for the result to come. Does it not worry Morten Höglund that the policy of the Progress Party would isolate Norway in the world?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-09.ana.ud1041e301	Now one could almost get the impression that the representative Vallersnes thought that the Progress Party wanted us to resign from the UN. Of course, we have never mentioned that. We believe that in important areas of environment, international security, peace building, etc. the UN has a crucial role and no one else can replace the UN in that task. We are concerned that the UN should work. That's exactly why we're dealing with these things. Norway is the seventh largest contributor to the UN, and in relation to population, we are the second largest. We are an important player in the United Nations system. We believe that the means of pressure we have is financial. The need for reform in the UN is clearly documented far beyond this room and far beyond the ranks of the Progress Party. It is a pressure we believe to be beneficial at least to be tested. It's not about getting out of the United Nations, it's about being even more active in the reform process.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-09.ana.ud1041e306	In Norway, there has been active dialogue between the Muslim population and the authorities. In Denmark, there is full confrontation. The reasons for that can be many. Denmark has actively supported the United States in the war in Iraq. Fogh Rasmussen and the Danish People's Party have actively promoted cultural struggles, where the ingredients are a harsh immigration policy and the cultivation of pure Danish, which promotes the distance between «them» and «us». The progress party has gained a lot of inspiration from Denmark. The Progress Party is probably the party that has taken the most inspiration from Denmark, both in terms of foreign policy, and in terms of immigration policy – and cultural policy, in fact. With what has happened now, has the Progress Party begun to reflect on the fact that this road is not dangerous, and that it leads to explosions both foreign and domestic?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-09.ana.ud1041e313	I do not recognise myself in the entire description of Denmark that the representative Valle draws up. What she didn't mention, and I think it's important, is that the difference between how, for example. Islamic leaders have appeared in Norway and Denmark, and are quite obvious. While Norway, at least as I know, has been very responsible and a contributor to mitigate the level of conflict – we will take care of that, and we will develop it – many in Denmark have been almost inflamed with conflict and have helped to spread a picture of Denmark in the outside world that has not been right, which has been incorrect, and has damaged Danish interests. That's also part of that picture. I do not feel that people in Denmark have not wanted to have a dialogue with Muslims, but they want to have a dialogue with moderate Muslim leaders. There's a significant difference. So that's part of the picture. I think we're going to get the whole conclusion before we draw a conclusion on what is the result of Danish politics.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-09.ana.ud1041e318	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-09.ana.ud1041e321	This government's foreign policy was long marked by a series of markings, markings that were suitable to so question what was Norwegian foreign policy, about who were our friends out there. Norway’s relations with NATO, with the World Bank, with the EU, with Israel and with the United States were tested by the new government at the Soria Moria base. It is therefore particularly gratifying that one of the main features of foreign policy by the Minister of Foreign Affairs is to take care of and further develop the relationship with friends and allies, and to be our friends' friends. Then I hope that there is also agreement in the government about who our friends actually are. In a globalized world, what happens elsewhere in the world is becoming more important to us. The distance is getting smaller. The impact on individuals and on jobs of what is happening elsewhere is increasing. That is why I agree that international rules are important. International organisations that work are important, and not least a small country needs to work to stimulate it. However, it is also important to realise that a small country such as Norway is dependent on strong allies to ensure vital interests at home and outside. Carl Bildt said at NHO's annual conference that in sunny days it might be an advantage to stand alone, but when it storms, it's good to have steady friends, friends who don't fall in your back. It takes time, mutual trust and respect to build friendship. Destroying friendship, on the other hand, is not that difficult. So we were worried for a long time that the government's many different outcomes would make us friendsless. The Minister of Foreign Affairs' statement therefore represents a prolonged normalisation of Norwegian foreign policy, and I hope it will be followed up in the continuation. What you can say after the presentation is that the main lines of Norwegian foreign policy are fixed. It's positive. It is especially gratifying that the Government has chosen to continue the strong commitment of the previous government to the northern regions. The foundation for an active north-eastern policy has been laid. In June 2005, there was a wide-ranging discussion of Norwegian north-eastern policy in Stortinget, where a clear majority felt that Norway would strengthen its position in the northern regions by facilitating Norwegian companies to participate in the petroleum industry in the Barents Sea. That's what it said: ‘Norway’s position as an energy storm power must also be exploited at the highest political level. Such a focus is necessary to promote our own natural and environmental interests.’ We must be absolutely clear that the northern regions can become an energy region of global importance. And the world needs more energy. High growth in countries like China and India, along with political unrest in several important oil producing countries, makes oil today feel like a scarcer good than just a few years ago. Security of energy and supply has now become a dominant policy issue in many countries, and also internationally. Europe’s energy vulnerability became more apparent following the disagreement between Russia and Ukraine at the turn of the year, on the conditions for gas supplies and transport. And the President of the United States, on his side of the State of the Union, stressed on 31 January that the United States had to reduce its dependence on Middle East oil by 75 pst. by 2025. During Russia’s G8 presidency, energy issues are one of the main priorities. Norway should position itself in energy and foreign policy to help provide both the EU and the United States with some of the answers they are looking for. The availability of sufficient energy will be a crucial factor in maintaining our standard of living in the West. At the same time, however, energy supply is even more necessary as a prerequisite for economic growth, development and stability in the Third World. Millions of people can be lifted out of poverty through growth and economic development, where energy is a crucial factor. The main foreign policy contribution Norway can make as an energy nation is twofold. On the one hand, Norwegian companies and authorities should continue to use their experience and competence to help new petroleum producing countries to extract their resources in the most environmentally friendly way possible. On the other hand, participation of companies from Norwegian petroleum environments makes technology available so that they can extract as much oil and gas as possible. It is also important in foreign policy to look at how energy forms challenges for international society in a new way. We see today that China's positioning in very many third-world countries is justified by the lack of energy. 40 pst. they have their own energy. If we just go 10-15 years back, they would have 100 pst. coverage. We experience the challenge when we demand good governance to countries in the Third World. When calling for human rights from a single UN organisation and from Western countries, we face the situation that China is responding to its energy needs and ensuring that they do not become effective, because they contribute instead. This means that the rule of law and the United Nations system in the field of human rights are becoming more important and more important, because self-interests in energy, in particular, now seem to undermine part of what we want to achieve from human rights and democracy in many countries. I hear that the new government is going to pursue a more active European policy. I'm a little uncertain about what the Government is putting into a more active foreign policy. But I'm glad it's still going to be active. In the absence of full membership of the EU, we need to make best use of the channels available to us in order to win out with Norwegian interests. I think it is reassuring that the Minister of Foreign Affairs says that the Government will call around the agency that ensures a level playing field for Norwegian companies and jobs. I interpret this as both the fact that the EEA Agreement should still be at the heart of EU policy and that it should ensure that the EEA Agreement as a whole is, in fact, similar to that of the EU's own body of agreements. It is a little surprising that the members of the Government repeatedly choose to ignite the spark that can easily set the whole agreement on fire, when no less than four of the Government’s government’s government’s government has rattled with the right of reservation in the EEA Agreement. It is possible that it is an active policy, but I do not think it is a constructive policy if we are to ring around the agency that can guarantee a level playing field for Norwegian businesses and jobs. An active European policy is essential if we are to deal with a Europe of continuous change. In an otherwise comprehensive presentation, the Minister for Foreign Affairs did not find any place in his view of the EU’s developments or forthcoming enlargements. It is important to stress that through the EEA Agreement we will be most affected by an extension. I miss the reflections of the Government and the Minister of Foreign Affairs on this. How does the Government address the debate on the external borders of the EU? It is also important that an active European policy is wider than the EU. I have expressed my amazement at the fact that on 17 pages that are not written in one word, there is no mention of Ukraine or Belarus. The main challenges of democracy in Europe today are these two countries. Both must have a choice for the next month. This concerns Norway directly. Ukraine and Belarus are located between the EU and Russia. The borders with the EEA region of which Norway is part. Their future will affect our future and the whole of Europe. I want to challenge the Government to develop a strategy for how we can contribute to the establishment and consolidation of democracy and human rights in these two countries. How are we going to deal with the involvement of the broad network of organisations, volunteers and parties and in and of political parties to help strengthen Ukraine's democracy and strengthen the opposition in Belarus so that the pressure from within to experience a change is equally strong? It must not be that Norway seems to have an emergency because of our priorities of maintaining a friendly relationship with Russia, because Russia still sees this as part of its sphere of interest. Belarus is Europe's most authoritarian regime. Freedom of expression and organisation are very limited, journalists and oppositionists are being persecuted. Norway must help to save the stumps of democracy for 10 million. White showers, which are on the border with the EEA territory, of which we are part. In Ukraine it has been a year since the Orange Revolution. The democratic process is far from complete, and one may quickly experience setbacks in the election process. In our quest to understand the attacks on Norway in the Middle East, we should not be tempted to respond in simple terms. The aggression is linked to oppression, undemocratic regimes, strict bans on free political expression, except Islam, extensive corruption, uncontrolled population growth and economic tensions. Regimes such as Syria and Iran can also be suspected of touching on this in relation to their own policies. Some of these are marked by an internal political agenda. With 17 pages, it's a big story, with a lot of themes. That's why there's a lot of speakers from the Right who deal with different issues, to show our views on what the Government has said.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-09.ana.ud1041e354	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-09.ana.ud1041e358	Let me first commend the representative Solberg for having taken up the situation in Belarus and also mentioned Ukraine. I think there should be a broad consensus that we should follow up on it. Then I might think that the representative should abandon his initial rhetoric, because it is continuity, and there is a broad consensus on Norwegian foreign policy. That's the way it should be. We should be predictable as a nation, both to our allies and in our international work for peace, development and human rights. At the same time, we have a government that has a new value base. And if there's anything this government is betting more on than it's been done before, then it's building up an international legal order and increasing bet on the UN. It concerns the channelling of assistance, but it is also important for the Workers' Party and for the Government to strengthen the UN's authority in the world community. It might be interesting to hear what the Right Leader thinks about the Siv Jensen committee team's play on freezing the money to the UN as long as we don't get rid of superfluous bureaucracy, and as long as the reforms are not done. I heard her party trap here instead, but it's a little interesting to hear how Erna Solberg deals with the Progress Party in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-09.ana.ud1041e365	I am not reading any new value base out of this government in terms of democracy, human rights and belief in international organizations, in relation to the previous government. That's where I think we've been so strong. I'd rather ask a few small questions, because there's one topic – to put it that way – in the statement about this that I've been a little surprised about, and that's the one-sided focus on dialogue, with Cuba as an example. The reason for this is that if you use the exact same rhetoric, we're going to reintroduce a cooperation with Zimbabwe – which at least we're strongly opposed to. It's important to say that sometimes the regime dialogue doesn't work on. Yes, we're in favour of a strong UN, yes, but we're also in favour of our development aid working in the best ways. We think the World Bank has done a good job. There's a lot of rhetoric around the UN, but the 100 million. kr, which was moved during the budgetary procedure last year, is not exactly the big and dramatic one. We believe that the UN should work well. It is important to work against corruption, but I don't think threatening to draw money support is the right way to get it done.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-09.ana.ud1041e376	The right leader spent so long on the north areas of his post that she should almost get a line to it as well. Norway has a special role in the north, not least as a sovereign body, but also in relation to the new challenges facing the environment. We know that what has worked in the north is, of course, self-imposed limitations. During the cold war, it seemed as if it were just against our great neighbor in the east. We know that when it comes to environmental challenges up north, self-imposed constraints are likely to work very well. It will probably give us even better international status as sovereigns, even in relation to the special role that the Svalbard Treaty has given us. What self-imposed limitations does Right consider that we can launch internationally? Of course, it will also win resounding politics in Norway, but in what way, based on just winning acceptance, can we have self-imposed restraints?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-09.ana.ud1041e387	I allow myself to say that I'm not quite sure that we didn't have military operations or aircraft operations east of Finnmark to convince Russia, has anything to do with the challenges we have in the northern regions today. The type of self-imposed restrictions were not about provoking, or about convincing our neighbors that NATO was not too close to the border. It was a matter of something quite different from the North Sea challenge. I am concerned that Norway today probably owns the best environmental technology for energy extraction in the world. We have the longest experience, we have extensive experience with control and systems, built over many years of offshore operations. This means that the best thing we can do in the world – as I also said in my post – is actually that our companies participate, with the standard requirements that we are used to providing, just to take into account work, the environment and security. That means that the extension that comes is going to be the best possible way.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-09.ana.ud1041e394	The representative of Solberg focused, among others: on an active European policy and called for the foreign minister’s view on several current debates in the EU. I want to challenge Solberg when it comes to the Government's warning of a more active policy in Norway, in the sense that Norway is coming forward with its interests in matters for debate in the EU. I would like to refer to a report presented by the Riksrevision last autumn, which shows that Norwegian governments' follow-up to the EU is poor. One has been out too late, one has a lack of relevant skills in important areas, one has sent juniors to the EU to a large extent, and one has failed to attract external stakeholders to their interests. Does Solberg want to contribute to a process where both government and government are coming in earlier?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-09.ana.ud1041e401	I would like to say that I have been aware of all these matters that the Riksrevision has pointed out for a long time. The representative of Meltveit Kleppa was not present at the European Movement's Women's Seminar in the spring of 2004 – that was quite natural reasons for it – but there she would have heard that I was dealing with exactly the same issues, that it was a challenge for us. But I also want to say that it is a challenge for a small country with 4.5 million people to be present in all areas of policy design, at the beginning – through a bureaucracy, through participation in that area. We have to spend so much more time on it, because we're not in the final part of dealing with the issues. Therefore, in the previous government, we had to make a very clear prioritisation of some of the most important issues. That is why there is a great deal of effort to get a system that allows for a differentiated employer’s fee under the new regional legislation of the EU and under State aid law – and we have done so. I am very pleased with that, because it was important for Norwegian district policy that we made a strong effort in that area. The second effort of force, which we did not get results from, and which I see is still a problem for the current government, concerned the salmon case, where we did all the basic work and put in lots of forces. But there was one thing that was decisive: we weren't in the final rooms, we were outside. And that's why we were easy to sacrifice in many other internal priorities that were made.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-09.ana.ud1041e410	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-09.ana.ud1041e413	The statement by the Minister of Foreign Affairs, which was otherwise both very good and very satisfying, clearly shows that domestic and foreign policies have been intertwined, because decisions taken in international forums, such as the United Nations Conference on Human Rights, are intertwined. in the WTO, has direct implications for the internal space for action, but also because decisions taken at national level, such as: on climate policy, immigration and integration policies have an impact on foreign policy. The serious situation we are seeing now calls for dialogue and not confrontation and marginalisation, either here at home or in the conflicted areas. In yesterday's debate, both the Islamic Council and the Oslokoliasia were rightly recognised for promoting dialogue. We know that many government members have also been in dialogue. This is not the situation in Denmark. On the contrary, there is full confrontation between the government and the Muslim population. I think it's important to ask about the reason for this difference. First of all, I believe that the Danish Government's weaponry with Bush and the fight against terrorism, and therefore direct support for the war in Iraq, is one reason. Another important reason is the cultural struggle of the government and the Danish People's Party, the fight against immigration and a bitter dispute over what is purely Danish. What is pure Danish is defined by the government and the Danish People's Party, and constructing a distance between them and us, creates enemy images. The cultural struggle goes straight into cultural policy. When the Storting treated the cultural message, all parties, except the Advance Party, praised cultural diversity as an important value. Mahatma Gandhi has said: "I don't want my house to have walls on all sides and the windows to be blinded.I want every country's culture to blow as free as possible around my house. But I refuse to let myself blow over the end." In recent days, I have become even more convinced of the value of cross-border cultural exchanges and that it must be reflected both in foreign policy and in development policy. Palestinian artists, who have just worked closely with Norwegian artists, stood up to the violence in the cold water of the Muhammed drawings and gave way to tolerance and dialogue. The world needs more flow of artistic and cultural expressions across borders. The cartoons triggered the frightening and unacceptable violence we've witnessed. The underlying causes are many. There's been a lot of people around here. The Muslims have been paid collectively for 11 September: the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, poverty, for example. Three quarters of Palestinians lived below the poverty line in 2003 and high unemployment. In parts of Palestine, 70 pst. by young people unemployed. There is no solution in view of the cessation of Israel's occupation of Palestine. But there is also severe repression in many countries in the Middle East, and the West has cooperated with them when it has. The United States has accepted violations of human rights in countries that supply them with oil. Yesterday, the representative Højbrätten asked the timely question as to whether it is that we close our eyes here in Norway to violations of human rights in order to achieve more trade. Under oppressive regimes, mosques and religion become medicine. Civil society, for the rest, is absent. Therefore, one of our most important contributions is now to support the building up of the forces that will have democracy, human rights and promote women's rights, such as: The artists of Ramallah. Conflicts in the Middle East have gradually become complex and interwoven. Nevertheless, the conflict between Palestine and Israel is central. Israel is the country in the world that has failed to comply with most UN resolutions, and continues to do so now. Still, millions of Palestinian refugees are denied the opportunity to return to their own country by Israeli authorities. The wall of international law that divides the Palestinian territories continues to grow. This is one of the hindrances that Hamas won the election. Poverty and unemployment are high. Hamas has built up popular support by being active both in building schools and providing health care and other help. During the election campaign, the fight against corruption was the most important theme. Is SV Hamas painting? No, not at all. Hamas does not recognise Israel's right as its own country. Hamas has been behind a lot of maritime bombers. Their winner is no good news for those who are concerned with freedom of speech and the position of women. But they won a democratic election. The choice has been made correctly. Not recognising it is double morality. Drawing Norwegian contributions or making a hard demand not to talk to them until they have unconditionally recognised Israel, without at the same time making equally harsh demands on Israel to comply with international resolutions, will only increase hopelessness and lead to greater confrontations. The government has chosen the right position and has the opportunity to be in dialogue with Hamas, because Hamas is not on our terrorist list. I'd like to say a little bit about the situation in Afghanistan. The safety situation is very unstable. It shows the attack on the Norwegian ISAF forces. The reason is probably the general rascal we see throughout the Middle East, but probably also the dissatisfaction with American warfare through Enduring Freedom. This warfare was an important reason why SV opposed participation in «Enduring Freedom». Norway is now out of ‘Enduring Freedom’. Norway participates in ISAF forces to protect the civilian population, and we participate in the reconstruction of Afghanistan in several ways. SV supports participation in the ISAF forces because it aims to stabilise and protect the civilian population. SV is opposed to the merging of ISAF and Enduring Freedom. There are many European countries that are. Therefore, the plans have been scrapped so far. I am reassured when Secretary of State Barth Eide says to the Class Battle that Norway will go against a merger if that means that ISAF is going to take over the US anti-terrorist war. The nuclear threat is again high-time and on the agenda. Norway has long been aware that the objective must be both non-proliferation and disarmament. The work on Iran is important, but the prerequisite for achieving results is that it is also followed up with demands on Israel, which has nuclear capabilities. The Resolution of the Atomic Energy Agency refers to the Middle East objective as an area without weapons of mass destruction. This is an indirect reference to the fact that the weapons of mass destruction of Israel too should have been removed. SV supports the need for Norway to have a renewed Africa policy that looks at foreign policy and development policy in a context. The continent faces many challenges, not least in resolving the poverty crisis. It is worth noting that the African countries are the most obedient to the World Bank and IMF's advice or requirements on liberalisation and privatisation. In this context, it is therefore important to stress that Norwegian assistance should not go to programmes requiring liberalisation or privatisation, as the Soria Moria Declaration states. It is good that African countries through the African Union and NEPAD have developed their own strategies for meeting the challenges facing the continent. In our work on peace and reconciliation in Africa, we must cooperate with them, with the Development Bank and with the African Parliament. We meet African countries in international cooperation, as in the WTO. Several of these countries, and in particular several parliamentarians, have gradually gained good knowledge and important points of view. In the challenging WTO rounds that remain, it is important to have alliances with these countries too, in order for this to be a development round. It must also be part of an Africa strategy. Africa is becoming an important supplier of crude oil. Norway can contribute to the knowledge of oil management so that energy and natural resources can be under national control and oil wealth can benefit the entire population. It must also be followed up by anti-corruption work. It will be an incredibly important contribution to development. In the context of a renewed African policy, we must not forget the conflicts that are not high on the agenda. I would like to mention Northern Uganda in particular. International aid and international co-responsibility must exist if this terrible conflict is to be resolved. Then again I will refer to the work of Security Council Resolution 1325 on Women, Peace and Reconciliation. It is important to have a woman’s perspective on peace and reconciliation. It's especially important in Africa. There are many to play with here, and I am pleased that the Government is now preparing an action plan for Security Council Resolution 1325.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-09.ana.ud1041e459	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-09.ana.ud1041e462	This week, too, representatives of the Socialist Left Party have been out and raised doubts about Norwegian foreign and security policy. Despite the fact that yesterday the Prime Minister from this interlocutors decided that our presence in Afghanistan should stand firm, we read in the evening post that the representatives of Reikvam and Langeland disagree with this. We were supposed to pull ourselves out completely, says Reikvam, according to the Evening Post. Consensus in foreign policy has rarely been more important than it is at present. So I'm going to ask, isn't it soon that you in the Socialist Left Party take inwards that you actually sit in government, and you talk to one tongue in such matters?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-09.ana.ud1041e469	Well, we're going to go inwards and we're going to be in government. We are very pleased that we are in this government, because we believe that we can get more solidarity, more peacemaking and more international exchange when we sit in government. I believe that the reply to the representative, Mr. Waksdal, after what I said should be completely unnecessary. We support the presence in Afghanistan through the ISAF forces. We do that because the ISAF forces aim to promote stabilisation and support the civilian population against the attacks that come, not least, from warlords such as them. Dostum in the northern areas. What we don't support is that we should participate in a U.S. warfare. But neither does the government. The government has pulled the strengths out of ‘Enduring Freedom’, and we are happy about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-09.ana.ud1041e477	I noticed with interest that the SV representative paid great attention to avoiding enemy images, and then she spent a long time drawing an enemy image of Denmark – of all things on the globe. I thought that was pretty funny. But my question is about continuing what was just inside. A few days ago, we had a very serious attack on Norwegian soldiers in Afghanistan, and one of the reasons why it didn't go any worse than it did was that we could claim aircraft support from Enduring Freedom, F-16 aircraft. Then I think it's a little strange to hear SV repeat their objections about how important it is not to get in touch with «Enduring Freedom». I assume that Ågot Valle does not regret that the Norwegian soldiers received the support they received, but is she able to draw any practical consequences from it?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-09.ana.ud1041e484	SV supports having the ISAF forces there. Afghanistan is in a troubled security situation, to put it mildly, not least because Afghanistan has many warlords. It is clear that when our forces are in dangerous operations – as it turns out this is – it may be necessary to have aircraft support. That's why we've also supported in government the downcast of the F-16 planes. But I think the picture is much wider than the representative who thinks he is. I believe that much of the frustration in Afghanistan is due to the warfare that has taken place through the ‘Enduring Freedom’ operation. Therefore, the SV operation does not support ‘Enduring Freedom’ and we are pleased that we have withdrawn from it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-09.ana.ud1041e491	The representative Valle had an ongoing analysis of the situation in the Middle East and of Hamas’ waltziger. I believe that the reason Hamas won was, among other things, what they have done socially. But I assume that the representative Valle is saying that it is not possible to accept that a government does not recognise the State of Israel's right to live in the whole. That requirement must be established. Then to Afghanistan. I'm recording that the representative Valle says it was good to fly there. It has SV support. That's good, it's a new line. But it is the Taliban that is the problem. They are both ‘Enduring Freedom’ and, in particular, ISAF’s main enemy. When it has been attacked, the Taliban recognizes that it is the ones behind the attacks. Therefore, there is also a part of this image. Does not the analysis by the representative Valle become simple?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-09.ana.ud1041e502	I think the representative Lilletun is right that Hamas was so upset because of the work they have done socially. The fight against corruption was also an important theme in the campaign. I said in my post that Hamas does not recognise Israel is very critical. There are certainly other areas of policy that are critical. But I believe that it will be double-ethical to make tough demands on Hamas right away, without promoting the same demands on Israel, which have repeatedly broken international conventions and resolutions in this area. The situation in Afghanistan is very complex, and we might be able to get back to it later.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-09.ana.ud1041e511	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-09.ana.ud1041e514	I would like to start by thanking the Minister of Foreign Affairs for a broad and good deal. It was a useful review of the foreign policy of the plural government. It was with pleasure one could see that there was much one who could recognize in the messages that came there. Compared to what we've seen in the last few weeks of confrontation and choice, the reactions in much of the Muslim world have been different in Norway. As several speakers have pointed out, I also believe that there is a great deal of work to be done in building up a trust and trust capital, which has led us in Norway to succeed in avoiding confrontations so far. We can only hope that it will last, for example: in relation to the demonstration announced on Saturday. Otherwise I just refer to what was said by the Christian People's Party in the round after the Prime Minister's speech yesterday. The Minister of Foreign Affairs said that the Government has three main tracks in its foreign policy. Track One Was ‘to support the further development of an international legal order, where use of power is regulated, without prejudice to the law of the most powerful’. In 2005, I had the pleasure of working part of what happened in 1905 and how the first foreign minister we had, Løvland, expressed himself, and it was actually quite similar to what the Foreign Minister said here. It is, in fact, a hundred-year tradition, and hence the new government's foreign policy is well in line with what has been our Norwegian foreign policy for 100 years: that as a small country, we are dependent on an international legal order. That track has full support from the Christian People's Party. The second track was to take care of and further develop the relationship with friends and allies. When the Foreign Minister highlights ‘close friendship and cooperation with the United States’, he continues a line with which today’s opposition party is not unknown. But one might say, well, here's the other part of the Storing thing that's had to go into a friendship that may not have been so hot in the past. It's interesting to see that it seems to go further and further. It's going to be exciting to follow it through. I registered that the representative Valle, who had a broad and interesting post, was not at the point where the Foreign Minister had when it came to being our friends' friends. It gets exciting about her later in the debate commenting that very bit. Track three was to promote peace, reconciliation and development. When the Foreign Minister came to the third and last lead, I am sure that a recently resigned Prime Minister at the Oslo Centre for Peace and Human Rights will look into his wardrobe to see if anyone had trusted his clothes. It's an expression that he used quite a lot in his foreign policy speech. It says that that point, of course, has the full support of the Christian People’s Party. The Minister for Foreign Affairs warned that Norway's most important strategic field of activity in the coming years is the North. He held high expectations, and the Christian People's Party is in complete agreement with regard to those expectations. Other representatives of the Christian People's Party will come back to the substance of it in later articles. There was no less discomfort when the Foreign Minister added that the Government is based on the treatment of the previous government's notification of the North. Right should be right: I want to commend both the Foreign Minister and others in the Government for the way in which they have put this matter before them, both nationally and internationally, and implemented it in Norwegian foreign policy. As I have said, it is inflamed with praise, and it is given with it. The Minister of Foreign Affairs further states that the Government will not seek membership of the EU and that we will cooperate with the EU based on the existing agency through the EEA etc. There is once again reason to say that there is no primary program for the Workers' Party, the Centre Party or the SV as the Government's fronts. It is the Christian People's Party's party program that is being fronted by the Government. At that point, there won't be any protests from our side. On the contrary, we'll back it up in the best way possible. Then I noticed that the Foreign Minister was making expectations about a stronger Africa effort. That's good. He said that Norway needs a renewed African policy that can see development policy and foreign policy in context. It has actually been a heart issue for the Christian People's Party for a long time. Nor have we ever had a Norwegian Development Minister with more commitment and knowledge about Africa than Hilde Frafjord Johnson. She was, as it is called, childbirth in Africa, talking floating Swahili and leading an Africa policy after three headlines. Firstly, support for political development, good governance, transparency and the fight against corruption. Secondly, active efforts for peace and reconciliation. It might make a difference. in relation to the peace agreement in Sudan and other important political issues in Africa, in which she had a finger in the game. And thirdly, a strong effort for economic and social development. The Christian People's Party thought that the Blair Commission's recommendations were good, but we need more than words, we need tools, and that means money. The Christian People's Party noted with joy the outcome of the G8 meeting, where the large countries were some to double the aid, from 25 billion dollars to 50 billion dollars. As a follow-up to its budget proposal in the autumn, the Cooperation Government put forward proposals to increase aid to Africa, with clear targets on how much would be distributed to Africa and the least developed countries, and had a stepping-up plan for it. Here one must respectfully say that the first government of Stoltenberg did was cut off the promises made by the government of Bondevik with regard to Africa. It's true that the same thing is going to come to Africa via the United Nations, but the G8 escalation plan was actually that the nations for their own licenses should have a stepping-up plan, and then the United Nations comes in. Here we're going to follow the Government carefully, and to challenge her that she has an active Africa policy, even when it's about the licenses to Africa. Because there was a new course that would leave here in relation to the licenses, it was the wrong course. I allow them to wait for a new whole budget to come, and expect that there will be an increase in relation to what was inside the fall. The government has announced a new policy in relation to Cuba. Essentially, I agree with those changes, but it requires that one is very active in relation to the civil society in Cuba. The contact now made with the regime must be used for clear speech and close contact with the dissidents and the opposition. The opposition is very vulnerable because it doesn't have support from the United States, but it's on its own. It needs support from countries such as Norway. I challenge the Government to get started again with a human rights dialogue. I am of those who believe that human rights dialogues are a good way of working. The representative, Mr Høglund, said in his statement earlier today that, among other things. Shirin Ebadi had criticized the EU's human rights dialogue with Iran. Yes, but she didn't criticize that they had a human rights dialogue, she didn't think they had good enough substance in that dialogue. I expect from such a dialogue. Therefore, it is not the way to go – as the Progress Party says – not to have human rights dialogues, but to put a substance in those dialogues that actually work. So I would like to conclude immediately with what the Foreign Minister did in relation to the fact that Norway can actually make a difference. It's important to believe. I think it's been a lot of times. The Minister for Foreign Affairs gave some examples. The government will have the full support of the Christian People's Party to work hard to make the difference that Norway can make clear, to create a fairer value.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-09.ana.ud1041e551	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-09.ana.ud1041e554	As usual, it is difficult to find any ambiguity and basis for any critical theme related to contributions from the Christian People's Party and Lilletun in terms of foreign policy. It is hardly surprising if you look at the tradition of Norwegian foreign policy and who is gathering support about it. Lilletun acknowledged that there was complete dissatisfaction with the Minister for Foreign Affairs' statement and also the committee leader's first statement today. But I still want to ask about two relationships. One is linked to the United Nations system, which we believe is the most important multinational body we have. We want to increase support both politically and economically, but at the same time are in favour of reforms. We note that at least one party here in the Chamber believes that we should link economic reactions to a possible lack of progress, which we disagree with. I would like to hear Lilletun's comment on it. Finally, I would also like to hear Lilletun's assessments of the support for the new regimes in the Middle East, if we are to give them time to turn around. There is no doubt about the objectives of the Workers' Party for further negotiations related to the development of the Middle East.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-09.ana.ud1041e563	When it comes to the United Nations system, and if we're going to get there immediately, the answer from the Christian People's Party is completely crystal clear. It's not the way to go. We must fight strongly for reforms, and we know that in an organisation with so many members there is no fast job. But we have to be clear. Obviously, we have a voice to use there, because we're one as big contributor as we are. But we're not really here to start cutting. It will go against the poorest and the programmes that all UN organisations have on the move. today. The Christian People's Party believes that those who have won the elections in the Palestinian territories must of course have time to come after the shock of having won. But we support what President Abbas has said, and what President Mubarak has said, which is in line with what the Foreign Minister said yesterday, and which is in line with the proposal put on the table today by the Progress Party. That must be the objective of what is to be done with Palestinian rule.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-09.ana.ud1041e570	It concerns the relationship to human rights dialogues, and whether Shirin Ebadi said one or the other. It's a little bit back in time, and we might have a slightly different view of it. But at least: the conclusion, as I clearly understood it, was quite clear that while the dialogue had been going on, and it had been going on for some time, the human rights situation in Iran had been exacerbated. Then you have to ask, what is the result? Is this a fruitful way to go forward? Or are there other ways that should be tried? And doesn't this also give the regime a hint of legitimacy, that you wrap up the problem in one sentence, and then you're free to do business and any other business outside this dialogue?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-09.ana.ud1041e577	We debated Iran after an interview from the representative of Höglund. It was a good debate, and it was quite clear that both the Government and all the parties took a sharp distance from the developments that have taken place in Iran. But at the same time there was agreement in the hall that it was necessary to keep in touch. What should such a contact contain? Yes, there are many things it should hold, but according to the Christian People's Party's view, a human rights dialogue is an important piece. Of course, we don't have to think anymore that we don't have to overthrow the regime because of Norwegian investors or other circumstances, but that we're actually clear. Iran is not only a pastor, but Iran also has a well-founded opposition that is actually trying to establish a party that has something in common with the party that has come to Turkey, which is a Muslim party that thinks secularly when it comes to development. Then it is important that we actually have contact with that environment and not just stay home.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-09.ana.ud1041e585	Jon Lilletun said in his reply to Ågot Valle that the main reason Hamas won the elections in Palestine may be that it has been committed to improving the social conditions of the Palestinian population. Jon Lilletun obviously has that right in it. But I note that Kåre Willoch in a chronicle in the evening post on 30 January points out a different relationship. Willoch says: ‘The election ceremony for Hamas was a natural consequence of the failure of the Palestinians to have a credible prospect of freedom.’ Furthermore, Kåre Willoch says: ‘But the United Nations has required Israel to withdraw from the entire territory occupied in 1967. No peace solution that does not meet this requirement can be lasting, because extremists will then have all the arguments they need to recruit for new terrorism. This will leave it to terrorists to fight for the implementation of the UN decision." Interestingly, the BBC News yesterday quoted Khalid Meshal, the Palestinian leader of Hamas. He said that a long truce must be based on Israel moving out of the occupied territories. Does Jon Lilletun see that here is a key to finding a solution in Palestine?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-09.ana.ud1041e604	It is quite obvious that the only way up to a solution is for the Palestinians to get their lives better, to experience a regime that gives them what a state of law gives, and to experience that their dignity is preserved. At the same time, there is no other way to reach that goal than the Roadmap for Peace, which the Quartet is working on. I would like to remind you that there is an unfortunate spiral of terrorism and retaliation, and that there is a basis for delay in the peace process itself. If I were to say the opposite of what the representative Ballo said, I could say that if terrorist organisations, like Hamas, had stopped the terrorist attack, one might already have been in pursuit of a peace agreement in accordance with the road map. But I don't want to put the debt on just one part here. It is obvious that it is required that both are willing to extend.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-09.ana.ud1041e609	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-09.ana.ud1041e612	Initially, I would like to thank the Minister for a very thorough review of Norwegian foreign policy. I think it's necessary, given the fact that today's foreign policy image changes quickly, and that we're all concerned with the situation we're seeing around the world, linked to, among other things. the numerous attacks on Norwegian embassies and personnel in international operations. The situation is serious. The Central Party is pleased with the way the Government, the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Prime Minister have dealt with this, and I am sure that in the important time to come, too, this will be done in a good way. The Norwegian foreign policy is covered by major and important areas, and an important point for the Central Party is that the Government has now started to invest in the north. For this work to succeed, it is absolutely essential that we constantly work to anchor it locally and regionally, and that the Government establish a good dialogue with the parties involved. The centre party is therefore pleased that it is set up to continue cooperation patterns, such as: Barn cooperation – a work that has worked well for a long time. As a basis for the Northern Region policy to be developed in the future, it is important that we have some clear characteristics. Among other things, we must: have a firmness and clarity in relation to the enforcement of Norwegian jurisdiction. Fuzzy command lines between civil and military power are unlucky and will be able to create unclear situations in matters like the one we had linked to "Electron". In a clear and firm enforcement of jurisdiction, the basis for a completely necessary dialogue with, inter alia: Russia. This is a sensitive and delicate area, but we must build on the good neighbourly relationship we have with Russia and other European allies. By creating an international understanding of Norwegian politics in the north, we can hopefully get rid of more situations like the ones we had with the Spanish jets. It is also important that we do not celebrate at the level of ambition in relation to the environment and nature. The Nordic regions are rich in natural resources, both renewable and non-renewable, and we should ensure this in the best possible way for both present and future generations. The centre party is concerned that we should treat the earth as if we were to live forever, and that should also govern the cross-sectoral policy to be pursued for the north. It is a challenge to make the close link between our economic, environmental and security interests in the area visible. The Central Party is pleased that the Government has committed itself to a policy that will also provide value creation, housing, living conditions and work for those who live and work there. We must not look blindly at the problems, but also at the challenges and potentials of the region. In all areas, knowledge will be one of the keys to succeeding in the ambitious goals of which it has been and is a broad political consensus. Knowledge is the basis for the development of business, environment, infrastructure and resource management. But knowledge is also the key to dialogue with our neighbouring countries, to dry new thinking and to creating new instruments for sustainable development. Even though the Center Party is engaged in a new and strengthened North Zone bet, it doesn't mean that we're not occupied with parts of the world that are further away. Norway must be and has always been an active participant in the rest of the world. Our own voice gives us the opportunity to influence and play an important role in many areas. It is absolutely essential that the Government in the future strengthen its efforts in the formal institutions, not least in the United Nations. It is in Norwegian interest that we do not have a situation in which nations can remedy themselves on their own. We are, as the rest of the world, dependent on a global, good cooperation in the UN. Through active participation in the UN, Norway has the opportunity to play an active role in peace, reconciliation and disarmament. We must not let go of the fight for the strengthening of international law, and in this particular case a strengthened UN is crucial. While there is no doubt that there is a potential for modernising the UN as an organisation, criticism of a cumbersome system should lead to increased efforts and participation rather than to reduced support. Norway must be a driving force for reform so that UN organisations are well equipped to meet challenges from the world community, whether in terms of health, environment, terrorism or poverty reduction. The UN political body, aid organisations and development programme must be brought closer together in order to work for functioning countries based on democracy, international law and accountability. For Norway, Africa has long been a continent in which we have had active participation in many countries through, among others, bilateral cooperation. Now is the time to think new, and the Central Party is pleased that the Government is working actively to formulate a foreign policy for Africa, where the objective is a continent that provides good conditions for building a future for the people of each country. The Central Party is committed to Norway's care and further developing our active role in strengthening human rights. It is therefore important that the Government also engages in dialogue with individual countries, and we are concerned that a critical dialogue with, among other things. Cuba may have an impact on the whole of civil society. Without critical dialogue and commitment, we will have only limited impact, and the Center Party therefore supports the Government's choice to actively engage also in Cuba. We live in a predictable world. The impact of Hamas’s statements in the Palestinian elections on Middle East policy is still difficult to say. We must recognise as a nation the democratic electoral process that has, after all, taken place, but we must call on the future government to follow a course in which internationally recognised borders are respected and where the solutions to the conflicts must be sought through dialogue and without violence. The challenges lie ahead in the field of foreign policy. But in all areas, we must work actively with high ambitions and with faith that we should be able to create change. Respect for human rights must be at the root of Norway’s international commitment at all levels. We must face the constant threats to international peace and security in an offensive way, so that people do not continue to be depleted by poverty, disease and war. The world is not getting safer and the global threat to the environment is no less if we build high walls. We need to use resources to strengthen global cooperation forums that have legitimacy across cultures, religions and distinctions between poor and rich. In a world of rapid change, we need to develop global understanding.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-09.ana.ud1041e644	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-09.ana.ud1041e647	The Foreign Minister's statement states: ‘The Government will not apply for membership of the EU. We will cooperate with the EU based on our existing EEA Agreement, participation in agencies and supervision." It goes on to say: ‘We will call around the works of agreement that ensure a level playing field for Norwegian enterprises and jobs.’ I experience this in stark contrast to the Central Party's insistence on the right to reserve, and we find little of the previous requirement to terminate the EEA Agreement. But I assume the Foreign Minister is speaking on behalf of the entire Government. Can we enjoy a new European policy from the Central Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-09.ana.ud1041e664	It must be for the representative to consider whether or not he can enjoy the answer he is now receiving. The central party has joined the government, and we have clear wording in the Soria Moria Declaration. The centre party is committed to an active policy towards the EU, where we want influence without being members. And we're positive that we're going to be able to do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-09.ana.ud1041e671	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-09.ana.ud1041e674	I would like to thank you for a broad statement by the Minister for Foreign Affairs. The left joins the Foreign Minister's presentation and the many perspectives drawn up here. We essentially agree with the conclusions of the Foreign Minister. There is a dramatic situation that has arisen in the wake of the caricatures of the prophet Muhammad. We have witnessed violence and other unacceptable methods both in Afghanistan and in the Middle East. The situation is exploited by secondary groups. The reactions are not representative of the vast majority of Muslims. More and more Muslims clearly show that they take a strong distance from violence, and there is therefore reason to praise Norwegian and other Muslim leaders, who have shown calmness and respect for dialogue and fundamental democratic values. The left supports the management of a very acute situation by the Foreign Minister and the Government. We are pleased that the Government continues to regard the ISAF forces as a contribution to stabilisation in Afghanistan. These are a support to the country's elected president and the country's elected national assembly. The Left therefore also supports the Government’s policy that Norway remains committed to its long-term commitments in Afghanistan. We are also pleased with the firmness shown by the Government to the Syrian authorities in connection with the attack at the Norwegian Embassy in Damascus. The Left also supports the emphasis of the Minister of Foreign Affairs on the role of the UN as the main international player in the fight for human rights and conflict resolution. It is a fact that there is insufficient contact at the popular level between Western societies and the Muslim world. There is too little contact between public organisations. Trust must be built between the West and the Muslim world. Peace is based on trust and respect, and must be built primarily through interpersonal interaction and understanding. It is therefore a problem that such a relationship is far too small between the West and Muslim countries. The left, as already announced, will therefore follow up with a proposal on how the Government can help build trust between Norway and the Muslim world. Norway has a special responsibility to help work for peace in the Middle East. We must recognise the legitimate demands of the Palestinians for a country of our own, and Israel's right to exist within safe borders. Norway must support a lasting peace settlement based on the relevant UN resolutions. This implies that Israel must withdraw to its borders before 1967 and that illegal settlements in occupied countries must return to Palestinian control. We cannot accept that Israel is building a wall of international law in occupied areas. Our requirement is that this must be torn down. Norway must increase its commitment to supporting democratic forces in all non-democratic countries in the Middle East. In this context, it is also natural to bring forward the recent Palestinian elections. The election gave a majority to a political party that has uncertainty about what stands for. This was also pointed out by the Minister for Foreign Affairs in his statement. I would like to stress that the Government must deal with a new democratically elected majority in Palestine, with the challenges and uncertainties associated with this. The left notes that the Minister of Foreign Affairs announces and is positive about changes in Norwegian Africa policy. We will stress the fact that Africa has for a long time been marked by war, hunger and suffering, but that peace agreements and democratic development hopefully change the continent. Today, Africa is characterised by the fact that large areas are still under occupation, civil war or the rule of oppressors. We will therefore point to the African Union as an important contributor to continuing positive development in Africa. The left will also stress that the Government in its African policy must cooperate closely with the various institutions of the African Union, and we look forward to seeing with excitement what the Government's work on new African policy is all about. The left also noted that a large part of the foreign minister’s presentation had been devoted to the challenges in the north. We share the Government's ambition about the Barents Sea as a cooperation sea, with clear borders, clear legal rules for economic activity, and not least high standards for safety and the environment. We record that the Government assures us that the Barents Sea remains one of the world's cleanest seas and one of the world's richest seas on fishing resources. The left assumes that this will be followed up in the overall management plan submitted to the Stortinget. The Left would stress that if the Government is to follow up its ambition that the management plan should become a ‘foreign policy document which may also be relevant in other regions’ – yes, the Left assumes that the Government also has the ambition to ensure a broad domestic policy majority in the Storting for this management plan. Finally, the Left line shift is recorded in the Government's Cuba policy, where SV's Langeland and LO seem to have come forward in normalising the relationship with one of the world's longest-standing dictators. The situation related to the democratic processes in Belarus and Ukraine is worrying. Both countries will have important elections in March, and the Left urges the Minister of Foreign Affairs to follow developments in Ukraine and Belarus closely in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-09.ana.ud1041e705	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-09.ana.ud1041e709	My question is on a topic that may not be so much affected in this debate, namely Norway's active position in the WTO negotiations. Following the change of government, the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of Agriculture have been negotiating in a very offensive and clear manner, thus presenting the Norwegian positions. In fact, from some quarters it has been claimed that there is a marked change in Norwegian policy profiling. My question is: Is Left satisfied with the government's offensive work in this field?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-09.ana.ud1041e718	There is no one who can say anything but that the WTO negotiations are difficult negotiations. Our former Minister of Agriculture, Lars Sponheim, did an important job there, and I record that this government continues in many of the same tracks.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-09.ana.ud1041e723	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-09.ana.ud1041e726	In its presentation, the Minister for Foreign Affairs drew attention to the north and argued that ‘knowledge, presence and activity’ was key to the government’s efforts in the north. Of course, I fully agree with the Minister for Foreign Affairs on this. However, I wonder what the government means by activity in the area. It is now approaching 30 years since hydrocarbons were found for the first time in these areas, but the activity has been very small. The only visible result so far is the Snow White expansion. In its Declaration of Accession, the Government wrote that Northland 6 was not to be opened up to petroleum activities. The remaining areas in the north were to be included in a management plan to be submitted to Stortinget for treatment. No signals were given that something should be opened up. Is this government talking about presence and activity? The Minister of Foreign Affairs claimed that the petroleum industry in the Barents Sea must comply with the world’s highest environmental and safety standards. I can assure the Minister for Foreign Affairs that over many years the world's most stringent health, environmental and safety requirements have been developed on a Norwegian pedestal. Nowhere else do you have such demands as in Norway, and at least this is not what must be behind the government’s addiction to start. Significant petroleum activities are being set up on the Russian side in the Barents Sea. Norwegian technology, which is the world's foremost in this area, should have all the possibilities of being used on Russian pedestals as well. But if we are to have credibility, we must ensure that we also have petroleum activities on the Norwegian side. Only then can we help to ensure that our technology and our environmental and safety standards can also be used outside the Norwegian base. ‘The energy dimension changes the perspective in the northern regions’, said the Minister for Foreign Affairs, and further stated that ‘The Barents Sea can become the most important petroleum region in Europe’. This, of course, is quite right. But isn't it soon that one throws off the action mud, ends the gnawing and opens up? The Minister of Foreign Affairs pointed out that when gas production decreases in southern Norway, there will be no capacity available in the grid. It can be extended northwards if the resource base is present, he said. Of course, this is also completely right. The basis of resources is present to the greatest extent. The problem is only the political paralysis the majority in this House has demonstrated for many, many years. Norway today appears to be an energy storm power and is considered by our customers to be a reliable supplier of energy. Almost as important as the energy itself is too many, the security of supplies is that you can trust the supplier. In large parts of the world, the use of energy will increase significantly in the coming years. Norway has opportunities to have large market shares in this, if we want to. Transformation of natural gas into LNG means that Norwegian gas can be shipped all over the world, and this gives us enormous opportunities in the future. We also see that energy resources are increasingly being used as a political and economic tool in a larger geopolitical game. We have in fresh memory the disagreement between Russia and Ukraine about gas prices, a conflict we probably haven't seen the end of yet. A few weeks ago, the presidents of Venezuela, Brazil and Argentina signed an agreement to build a gigantic Venezuelan gas pipeline and south-eastern parts of the South American continent. I don't feel sure that the political and economic power this gives Venezuela and Hugo Chávez will be particularly stabilising for the South American continent.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-09.ana.ud1041e747	I would like to begin by thanking the Foreign Minister for a very thorough and comprehensive foreign policy presentation. We live in a troubled time. The events of the last few days in some Muslim countries are very serious, and it is a dramatic time for the whole world. Attacks at our embassies and other countries' embassies are totally unacceptable, and we condemn these acts. Today we see that the poor and most needy again pay for the price of the conflict by the help workers having to withdraw from several areas. The situation we have experienced in recent times can only be resolved through dialogue. The work of building peace and reconciliation must continue to be our main contribution to a better world. The government has put the northern areas very high on the agenda, and I want to use my speaking time to go further into this. The government has a comprehensive and broad perspective on the north. It's to be invested in the north. It's to be built in the north. These new notes have created a new optimism in the northern part of the country. The perspective in the north has changed, from the cold war with a one-sided security policy perspective until we focus today, alongside sovereignty and security, on industrial development and environmental challenges based on research and development, as well as on living conditions and cultural cooperation. Of course, with the northern regions as the main strategic area of government, special expectations are being created in North Norway. But a positive development in the north undoubtedly has a great potential for the benefit of the entire nation. So this is not a regional bet, but a national bet. In the north we find and extract petroleum. In the north, we also find the largest fish resources. But on the other hand, it's in the north we also find serious signs that climate change is over us. And in the north, we still have open questions with other countries about sea areas and fishing resources. The Government has also decided to launch a long-term and cross-sectoral focus on research and development in the north, called Barents 2020. Barents 2020 shall act as a link between international competence environments, academic institutions, businesses and organisations in different countries engaged in the north. Two fields will be very central to Barents 2020: first, the development of petroleum technology for northern areas, where we can draw on our experience from the North Sea, and second, measures to provide better knowledge of how to master the challenges of environmental and resource management in the North. People to the people-cooperation is an important driving force in the north. From the beginning of the 1990s, Barents’ cooperation has contributed greatly to the development of people’s cooperation. This must now be further built on. The Nordic regions are developing to be one of Europe's new major energy regions. The decisions taken by Norway and Russia on petroleum activities in the Barents Sea are followed with great interest worldwide. Petroleum activities are in the starting pit in the Barents Sea. The Norwegian management plan for the Barents Sea comes in the spring. However, regardless of Norwegian decisions, Russians will start extensive oil and gas extraction in the Barents Sea. And it is immeasurably important that we contribute to Russian oil and gas activities in the Barents Sea within the very best environmental standards and with the very highest petroleum technology. I am very pleased that the Foreign Minister has made it very clear that our petroleum activity in the north is going to follow the world's highest environmental and safety standards. Valuable fish stocks in a vulnerable marine environment shall be ensured. As a coastal state and a fishing nation, Norway has a great responsibility in this way. The relationship with our big neighbor in the east is and becomes important. Norway and Russia must work together in and about the Barents Sea. We are once again in the process of negotiating with Russia on the Barents Sea divider line. A clear maritime divide will trigger new opportunities for Norway and new opportunities for cooperation with Russia. Bilateral cooperation with Russia is also essential in order to bring environmental crime and poaching to life. The climate change we see coming will, in a few decades, pose significant challenges for the environment on the globe, and most likely the effects will be in the arctic strata. The research shows that the Arctic temperature increase is likely to be up to eight to ten times stronger than the average global temperature increase. This will lead to changes in the north environment. Sea temperature will increase, with the consequences it will have for biodiversity. It will directly affect human living conditions. In particular, the indigenous population in arctic regions will be exposed. We therefore need a cross-sectoral policy to address this. It must be based on knowledge and dialogue, and Norway must be in the forefront. We must be foremost in the world in research and knowledge of the developments we see in our part of the world. That's how we have to meet the big challenges and the exciting opportunities that we see in the north.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-09.ana.ud1041e781	Iran contributes to a more complex and geographical approach to the Middle East conflict. The President has ordered full resumption of uranium enrichment, allegedly for civil purposes. However, after 18 years of secrecy of the facility Natanz and 2 and 1/2 years of negotiations without results, this argument is weakened. It was correct for Norway to vote in favour of the IAEA resolution bringing Iran before the UN Security Council. Many Iranians are anxious about what is happening, hoping for a diplomatic solution. So do we. Nor should we ignore the fact that the conflict is part of the historic power struggle in which Iran wants to profile itself as the region's major power by displaying muscles towards the West. In addition, support to militant groups in other Middle East countries contributes to the complexity of the conflict. Then you can ask, why did Hamas win the election? One factor is that Palestinians perceived the administration as increasingly corrupt, who did not deliver the majority that they wanted. Arafat had a status that raised him above criticism. Abbas doesn't have it. Secondly, the wave of Islam that rolls across the Muslim world also hits the Palestinians, who under Arafat were among the most secularized in the Arab world. With Hamas, they can be in the gli. When Fatah could approve the State of Israel, it was because their objections were political, and it was therefore possible to influence and negotiate them. For Sunni-Muslim Hamas, this is also a religious-morally justified question. It makes it harder to negotiate. After 13 years of very extensive Norwegian intervention and very significant aid budgets in the Middle East, it is quite unclear what role Norway has in the Middle East right now. I hope the Foreign Minister will say more today than he said yesterday about Norway's position in the peace efforts, both in terms of donor co-operation, in terms of our Palestinian reputation and in relation to the work of the Quartet. Then you can ask what happens to Hamas’ road choices in the future. The movement has so far been financed by, among others. Iran, and it raises questions like: Will critical pressure be closed by a Hamas government? Women will have the same terrible legal status as they do. Saudi Arabia and Iran? Will Hamas allow a free opposition? Will religious freedom be even more limited? And will the schools be used in religious propaganda? We don't know what the answers are, and when they will be available. In the meantime, there will in any case be a continuing and high need for humanitarian assistance to the Palestinians, which will require Norwegian attention and Norwegian contributions. Therefore, I believe that if Norway can, we should continue to be constructive in the Middle East, even after Hamas gains power on the Palestinian side. Then, of course, the Foreign Minister must make clear demands, and he must be open about them. Chancellor Angela Merkel was in the region a short time ago. She focused on the following: 1st@item: inlistbox Recognition of Israel's right to exist.2. Distance cap from the use of violence.3. Acceptance of what has now been achieved in the peace process. Hamas may have two choices further in relation to Israel: firstly, they may reject Merkel’s three points. At first, it gives a high popularity among the population, but thus increasing problems with donors and the international community — and, in the long run, poorer living conditions in the area. Then there will be either increasing chaos and violence, or they will have to change the course. Secondly, Hamas can already recognise the reality and partly admit Merkel's premise, but they will obviously at the same time demand that the UN resolutions also be implemented by Israel. This means that the occupation must be phased out in order to allow them to accept the prerequisites for further negotiations. Otherwise, as before, negotiations will have to resolve the security situation, territorial issues, the refugee situation and the status of Jerusalem. The themes are well-known, but it's important that everything is on the table, so that it's enough that both parties can justify that they both give and get. I would therefore warn against taking any negotiated results as given in advance. We have small and large examples that it can easily happen. I'm thinking, for example. on the foreign minister’s wording on the security wall recently, which he has just amended, and the Labour Party’s proposal a few years ago on the establishment of a compensation fund for non-returnable Palestinian refugees. A clear majority of both peoples want a peaceful solution in favour of both parties. It provides strong motivation for us to continue to provide our best for a peaceful, negotiated solution. Finally, I would like to comment on the proposal put forward by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats and an explanation of vote. Because the overall agenda is peace negotiations and solution, demands must be balanced, for example. related to UN Resolutions. We do not see this proposal this way, if it is at all relevant to give an instruction to the Government, and for that reason we will not recommend to vote in favour of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-09.ana.ud1041e827	The Soria Moria Declaration and yesterday's Foreign Minister's statement state that we should have a more active European policy. Norway must be a committed contributor to the creation of a Europe of solidarity and security. The driving rules for the EU are essential for District Norway, for employment and industrial policy. We must take care of Norwegian interests in this development. To put it simply, it is important for Norway that it does well for the EU. The Labour Party and the Government base their policies during this period on the fact that Norway is not a member of the EU. This may give rise to a more open European debate on matters and opportunities, rather than the traditional yes/no perspective. Norway is a member of the internal market and the four freedoms under the EEA Agreement. It is often established that the EEA Agreement works well. At the same time, it requires more and more from countries outside an enlarged EU to influence and promote national views. We must compensate for the democratic deficit we have in relation to the European Union. Norway needs to further exploit the opportunities offered by cooperation with the EU in other areas of its own and common interest, such as the Schengen Agreement and in the field of foreign and security policy. We must ensure stronger dialogue with the EU on the northern dimension. I am pleased that the Government will review the overall Norwegian effort in the EEA and other cooperation relations with the EU that can increase the potential for influence. Stronger mechanisms for overall coordination are needed so that Norwegian interests can be asserted effectively and early enough in the decision-making process. It is not enough to settle for Norway to be represented in hundreds of committees. I agree with the Minister for Foreign Affairs that this possibility should be better exploited by clear and clear priorities, concentration and coordination of efforts and good follow-up of our commitments. In the impact of EU decisions, we want dialogue and cooperation with regional and local authorities, social partners and other organisations and movements. I am pleased that the Government will provide for an open debate on EEA and EU matters and involve the Storting to a greater extent. I believe that Storting itself should also evaluate and assess its future handling of these matters. We usually talk about the EU and the EEA in relation to Europe. However, Europe is made up of individual nations with their interests and views, and Norway must of course have good cooperation and relations with them. Bilateral political contact must compensate for the lack of political participation in the EU system. We have a special relationship with our Nordic friends in the EU through the Nordic Council, and a close dialogue with our Nordic neighbours on European cooperation issues is desirable and natural. The development of common rules sometimes raises difficult questions, such as: the current discussion on the Services Directive. Increased trade in services also offers new opportunities for Norway, but at the same time we must prevent social dumping. The Directive has not been adopted in the EU. There is an intense discussion going on in the Member States and in the European Parliament. To date, we must influence together with common sense in the EU countries. Then we'll evaluate the final result when a decision is made. Norway has supported the enlargement of the EU, although I want to be a little less sure of where the EU borders go. We have contributed significant amounts to the new EU countries. Contributions shall promote economic and social cohesion, enhance the quality of the environment and strengthen civil society. The working party is concerned that the Norwegian authorities must facilitate the participation of Norwegian operators in this work. The social partners, non-governmental organisations, environments of competence and business needs to be encouraged to make use of the contact opportunities provided by the financial instruments in order to develop bilateral cooperation in different areas. In this context, I welcome the fact that the Government has set up a new grant scheme in this year's budget to ensure the possibility of European policy dialogue for employment organisations. The trade union movement is an important partner in order to ensure a development in Europe that respects the social dimension. In order to stimulate an active and broad debate on Europe, the red-green majority also increased financial support for information on European cooperation this year. It is uncertain what the EU countries will agree on further cooperation after the period of thought they themselves have agreed to is over. There are many options. Should a build on the present Treaty or should it be revised? Or one should take out individual areas, which may also be important for Norway to follow up on, for example: greater influence from national parliaments? Of particular interest should be the discussion of the future societal model within the EU countries, where Norway can make significant contributions. There are major issues related to developments in Europe, in the EU and our relationship through the EEA Agreement, in which Norway must take an active part in order to safeguard national interests, but also for a greater vision. The Workers' Party will cooperate, exploit common opportunities, take our share of European responsibility and respect values such as community and solidarity.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-09.ana.ud1041e861	Normally the reactions on the Norwegian flag on the chest or on the ermanes of our soldiers out are linked with smile and joy, that it creates security. Where we have been, this has been viewed as positive. Then we suddenly find ourselves in a situation where our girls and boys are actually being attacked, and it probably has nothing at all to do with the job they're trying to do outside of Maymane, but with events that have happened quite elsewhere, and presumably a situation that came entirely out of proportion. It came about that a half-military mob was knocking on the door of our boys and girls, who probably weren't bidding on it. This could have ended a lot worse than it luckily did. It shows that they have probably done a good job at mitigating the conflict. This poses an important question about the legitimacy of the operations we participate in. We know that in the south we have to fend for international law and make sure that international law exists and does not get watered down, while in the north we probably have to go a few steps further in terms of developing international law – and again with the necessary self-imposed limitations, so that we can win answers for what we think would make sense. Internationally, we're going to stick to the UN track. We're not going to go into coalitions with or without will, or whatever it is. As I said, we must stick to the UN track. It will be the safest road. So we're going to arrest for international law and the Security Council so that international law doesn't get watered down. The requirement for not using the option should in any case be reversed. And we're not going to sit in such a situation that we get to know the world because we're just involved in military operations. Of course, where we are involved in military operations, we should also be present with voluntary organisations and other forms of government assistance. This must be seen in a context. The signal from our soldiers out there is that everything we do from insurance work is meaningless if we don't follow up with long-term assistance. Everyone who has taken part in the debate here today – and the Minister for Foreign Affairs yesterday – has pointed to the importance of dialogue. This is the content of the dialog that we are looking for in many cases. Looking at the north, we know that Russia has gone from being a great threat today to being a colossal that is a little uncertain and a little daunting, but we have to give our good neighbours there in the east to develop a management system for both environmental protection, democracy and voluntary organisations. We should be aware that the Russians also know that their fish, even though it is just enough, are very much on it, also spawning in Lofoten and on the coast outside Troms. The Russians are clearly interested that these areas will be preserved in the best possible way. We need to listen to Russia. We're going to have a dialogue with them. We know that they were once seen as an enemy, while they are today – and in the future – our allies, assuming that we are both energy storms. We must be told that in the other dialogues that we have with the EU and the United States, which of course are also our allies, we will be able to have a diametrically opposite interest in e.g. how high the energy price should be and how high the extraction rate should be. What we should be aware of is that our allies may be annoyed that we will be able, for various reasons, to say that the pace of development should be slowed down. I do not say in any way that it should be stopped, but it should be able to dampen. So a little comment on the Progress Party's proposal. Now, I don't think these two points in the proposal look so stupid, but I don't think it's the right suggestion to make now. What we're not supposed to do at all now is adorn the Palestinians with their fingers and say that they picked the wrong ones. After one of the most democratic choices that has been made in the Middle East, we must not. With regard to managing aid money, nobody has done it as well as Hamas. The worst thing we can do is to withdraw any help money from them. Corphor? Well, they have managed the money they have received from their Muslim brothers, so that the money has actually reached the poor in the form of rice.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-09.ana.ud1041e880	Approaching a global welfare society requires cohesion between north and south. It requires that the rich part of the world take the greatest responsibility. Therefore, it is quite natural that Norway, as one of the richest countries in the world, is an active driver, both in word and in action. As we at home have driven a national cohesion policy, we must also contribute to global development. What the welfare state has been within the nation state must remain in the global arena. In this year's budget, the new government has shifted assistance from the World Bank to the more directly directed UN organisations. In this way, we get a more active Norwegian effort in areas that are of great importance to many developing countries. We are strengthening Norway's efforts to combat poverty and a more democratic world order by strengthening the UN, and we are stepping up the aid share. The Millennium Goals are an incredibly important step towards a more just world with better living conditions. And it's possible to achieve the goals. But that requires, among other things, the wealthiest part of the world is increasing its aid contribution. Norway was again designated in 2005 as the country with the highest levels of human development. We are the world's best country to live in, and we have all the prerequisites to contribute to raising the standard of living in poorer countries in other parts of the world. It's our moral duty, it's our desire to contribute, and that's exactly why we're also one of the biggest donors to UN organizations. From a Norwegian point of view, our contribution may be relatively small, but it is money that produces good and significant results, and it is essential that these contributions are maintained and reinforced if we are serious about achieving the Millennium Goals. We're one of the richest countries in the world, and we're one of the world's biggest contributors, but we keep 99 pst. by our means themselves. Nevertheless, in dealing with each budget, the Progress Party proposes that we should keep even a little more ourselves and give even a little less to those who need it the most. It is very regrettable that the Progress Party will now threaten to cut down on, perhaps cut out, Norway's aid contribution through the UN system. Arguments that the UN needs red tape, reform and greater action do not conflict. But freezing Norwegian contributions to the world's poorest in the fight for a more democratic and effective UN system will be a dead end. In addition, Norway is one of the most critical voices in the United Nations that is actually being heard. Before Christmas we got a pass to set up an independent audit committee and a new ethics office. These measures strengthen the UN's internal control and ensure a better use of resources. The claim from the Progress Party that Norway has for a long time uncritically pushed money into the United Nations system is completely wrong. Of course, the UN as an organisation has flaws and shortcomings, but it won't be better if we stop contributing. The UN is the most important platform we have for multinational cooperation and development. The UN has a major financial problem. Norway is one of the largest contributors, but the UN is struggling with a lack of willingness to pay from other Member States. I believe that this is a more forward-looking and more exciting debate than the Progress Party's debate on whether to freeze Norwegian contributions or not, how we can help to secure some form of independent funding through, for example, the UN. use of international charges. Taxation has always been one of the tools that one has actively used within countries to collect funds into the community, regulate unwanted behaviour and allocate resources. In a global economy, therefore, it is high time that we set up global taxation to build global common resources. If we are able to provide the UN with stable and predictable revenues to pursue cohesion policy, we will put the organisation in an even better position to meet the challenges of the future. In order for the United Nations to strengthen its position, the United Nations must be provided with space for action, opportunities and authority to carry out its work. By threatening economic boycott from Norway, we do not achieve any of the parts. For the new government, reform work in the UN is a high priority, and Norway must have a constructive and clear voice in the further process. At the same time, we will continue to strengthen the Norwegian aid contribution to the world's poorest through UN organisations. This is how we strengthen the UN as a global tool. To put it a little bit simple: a world without a strong UN is a little bit more uncertain. A world without a strong UN is a poorer world, and a Norway without a strong aid commitment through the UN is a slightly less solid Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-09.ana.ud1041e908	I would first like to join the post of the representative of the Trettebergstuen, who raised the major issues that are also part of a foreign policy debate on the future of international society. I would then like to thank the parties for their detailed contributions. I record that there is a break-up about the main lines of Norwegian foreign policy. It's a value in itself, and something that the Government and I, as Minister of Foreign Affairs, put into focus. The fact that we have collective solutions is a strength for our country, especially in days like these, and also in dealing with small and big issues in ongoing work. I am particularly pleased with Mr Lilletun's statements. To put it a little – we're going to say – ironically to myself: he held in 10 minutes a post that I spent 50 minutes on. The main things were summed up in a good way, and I agree with his rendering. He was concerned about Africa and worried that efforts were being slowed down there. I can assure the representative Lilletun that this is not the case. I have announced a review of the Africa bet, which we will have with the Minister of Development. The resources that have been moved on will benefit Africa. The effort on vaccines for all the world's children is not least focused on giving Africa's children a decent future. So some comments about the posts. I can tell the representatives of Solberg and Larsen that Ukraine and Belarus are occupying us. It is quite right to point out the importance of this critical area in Europe – between Russia and the EU – which comes on the agenda, not only from a human rights perspective and from a governance perspective, but also from a security policy perspective, where we focus with NATO eyes, among others. in Ukraine and other countries. It's going to require balances from us in the time to come. Ukraine shall have choices. These are political movements in the moods, and we must follow this very closely. We commit ourselves politically bilaterally through organisations such as the Council of Europe. We have close contact with the EU, and we also support civil society and projects in the two countries. The representative of Solberg also spoke that, in my presentation, she noted a normalisation of Norwegian foreign policy. I'm glad. For my own part, I would like to say in all modesty that there is now evidence of a normalisation of the Right's reaction to Norwegian foreign policy. I have summarized what there has been a majority in the Government since 17 October. There has been a policy that has made Right to say in the past that we have put friendship at risk, and that we have threatened Norwegian interests in the northern regions because we have withdrawn eight staff officers from Iraq. I now record that she believes that the main lines are in place, and that foreign policy is normalized. We shouldn't be running chips, but that things are normal, I guess everyone's happy. The representative, Højlund, entered into dialogue. What it is and what it is is, we can really go straight in. It seems to me that the representative, Høglund, uses the word 'dialogue' as a sign of weakness, of lack of clear vision, of being a little on the right, and of showing strength by not having dialogue. For me, it's actually the opposite. I can imagine cases where you don't want to have a dialogue with another party. But for me, dialogue is a method of having clear access to rulers, say what we mean and make demands. At the same time, dialogue is an access to networks in different countries. Norway had a dialogue with the Soviet Union over demanding years. It gave us access at the top level, so that we could clarify our views on human rights and political freedom and distance ourselves from an authoritarian system. At the same time, it gave us surgery opportunities to reach human rights groups in what existed by civil societies in Soviet times. I mean, it gave us useful lessons that we're going to work on. When we discussed Iran in this Chamber, following the good initiative of the representative before Christmas, we agreed that the balances were difficult, but that, in sum, it was important to have dialogue. I believe that in these days we see the benefits of it, not only because it is possible to contact the Iranian authorities and have a recognition when we address acute situations, but also as Nobel Prize winner Shirin Ebadi has pointed out: There are multiple civil societies in Iran. So it's not a monolithic top system in this country. There are now fighting power between different fractions, and there is a diverse civil society with which we should intervene. What I fear about the approach of the representative Höglund to foreign policy in this area is a further strengthening of the ‘we’ and ‘de’ thinking pathway. As the American President said, either you're for us, or you're against us. I'm skeptical about that approach, because there are actually opportunities on both sides that can engage in dialogue. And one of the things that is happening today in the confrontation and the escalation is that you give the extremities on both sides the right to give the assumed images of what we're going to stand for in the Nordic region. We then get a self-enhancing process that makes the world more dangerous to live in. With regard to the proposal of the representative of Höglund to impose requirements on future Palestinian governments, I believe that the two points that stand there are covered by my post yesterday, where at the end I am talking about what is Norwegian's main view: ‘A solution to the conflict between Israelis and Palestinians must be achieved through negotiations, not through violence. The Parties must accept agreements and obligations previously concluded, including UN resolutions and the Roadmap for Peace.’;» What is characteristic of Mr Høglund's proposal is that it is unbalanced. He makes two demands for one party. But the situation is that the other party has not complied with UN resolutions. They have violated international law and continue to do so as an occupying power. I am therefore critical to support a proposal that has this imbalance in itself. I believe that this is well taken care of in the statement. The representative of Vallersnes was engaged in our donor country role in the Middle East. I can then elaborate on what I had to say yesterday, that Norway is taking this task seriously. In these days, we are putting considerable activity into conversation with the Quartet, in conversation with the quartet's delegation Wolfensohn, who has now come to the region to coordinate donor co-operation with the Palestinian authorities. We are looking at how the role we have, not only as an organizer of meetings, but also on the policy side, can now be used in the difficult weeks and months to come, in order to prepare the basis for what the international community is going to believe about its donor policy vis-à-vis the Palestinian authorities in the future. There is considerable uncertainty in the international community about how to behave, who to talk to, and how to talk to those you meet. Can you talk through someone to reach different? Here I think Norway has room to activate, and that's what we intend to do. Finally. The representative Jacobsen was concerned that Norwegian flags on the chest had previously given recognition and largely good smiles. Now we're experiencing something else. I think what we've experienced in the last few days is a reminder that engaging in peace and development is not a parade march; it's dangerous. And it's important to stress in this room that it's a mistake if we think that wanting to do good, not also means being out on a dangerous mission. At the same time, we should focus on the fact that, as feedback shows, where we engage, we are doing useful work for the benefit of the civilian population. I'm absolutely sure it's not the civilian population in Maymaneh who's behind the attacks we saw. Two to three days before the attacks on the TIP quota in Hebron, several parts of the community in the street supported what the small strength – not even a strength, but a quota – represented in terms of distinguishing population groups. And I hope they can soon return. With regard to the humanitarian organisations, I note that today we are told that Norway's Red Cross and the Refugee Aid are on their way back to Pakistan to help the victims after the earthquakes. I know, after working in these organizations themselves, that if there's one thing that hurts, it's having to pull out. But they also have to take their safety into account. The instinct, however, is that as soon as it is possible to come back, you should return. It should also be part of what is Norwegian foreign policy: it is consistent, recognisable and long-term. We take security into account, but we stand by our commitments as in Afghanistan and in other areas where Norway can actually play a role. The representative Lilletun was in on it. Can Norway play a role? It may well be a danger sometimes that we believe that our role is greater than the naked one is. But what's worse than that is to think that it doesn't count at all. As Minister of Foreign Affairs, I intend to refrain from calling Norway a small country, because I believe it is unclear what that means. In many respects, we are not small but significant. And that's it to be able to use the possibilities along the three main tracks I outlined yesterday, summarizing the Government's ambition for an active foreign policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-09.ana.ud1041e939	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-09.ana.ud1041e943	No, you're not weak if you start a dialogue, and I also underlined that dialogue can have a lot to do. If Norwegian foreign policy has always been consistent and recognisable? Dialogue with the Soviet Union was mentioned. Let me give you another example: South Africa before 1994. I've mentioned it before. We had no dialogue with the government of South Africa until 1994, but we had an active dialogue with other parts of the community in South Africa. So one doesn't exclude the other. If we do not have a dialogue at authority level in Iran, we would like to have a dialogue with other sectors of Iranian society. So I agree that we need to intervene with positive forces, but about going into an active dialogue with representatives of a president who will remove one of the UN member countries from the map, and who says that a historical tragedy like Holocaust in the way he does is constructively from the Norwegian side, I am uncertain. Does the Minister for Foreign Affairs think that dialogue at any price should be pursued?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-09.ana.ud1041e950	The answer to Mr Höglund's question is simple: no. Dialogue should not be pursued at all costs. It's very little in life that should be reached at any cost. You have to balance it. So I would like to repeat that it is a very positive contribution that the Progress Party is now systematically ending up with the UN-led boycott of South Africa until 1994. It is a clarification of what has been the view of the Progress Party on that conflict, which I believe will help bring them to a normal stage in Norwegian foreign policy. When it comes to having dialogue with Iran, I think it was an advantage that on two occasions this week, I could involve my Iranian colleague in a quarter of a century-long conversation about security at the Tehran Embassy. We have always been very clear about condemning the statements made by the President. But as I said, having dialogue, it's about getting involved. Therefore, if security allows, I would like to suggest that my Secretary of State travels and conducts the conversations we need to avoid giving extremists the right idea that we are not now talking across ideological dividing lines.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-09.ana.ud1041e959	I'm not going to start up the polemics again, I just want to stress that I stand firm by saying that at Soria Moria, the withdrawal from Iraq and Operation Enduring Freedom was justified by the fact that SV was going to get an impact on its anti-American line, and that signal was read in many countries. I think the reactions that, among other things, The representative Ågot Valle met during his visit to the Pentagon, at the time the government joined, clearly showed that what happened did not go unnoticed among our friends. In addition, within the Soria Moria Declaration, we have announced that we should not join, or oppose, a missile defence operation within NATO in cooperation with Russia. It will be interesting to see whether this will force Norway into a footnote country situation, or whether it is possible to have a positive development towards the NATO summit. But I have one question, and that is something in the statement that has bothered me, namely the mention of the coordination work related to the Palestinian self-government areas, where it seems, therefore, that there is some doubt as to whether there will be a coordinated international support in the future. I will be allowed to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs simply to explain how he perceives the work at the moment.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-09.ana.ud1041e968	It's a tough question to answer within one minute, but I think, as I said instead, that the world community is hesitating and fambling round this. From the Norwegian side, we are clear that we are going to stand by our commitments to President Abbas and his interim government until it becomes clearer what kind of government is coming, and what kind of policy such a government will lead. We also believe that this, as elsewhere, is important for the international community to be as united as possible, that the Quartet and donor countries – which include the Quartet countries, but also a number of other countries – gather together as possible on a common line. At the donor country meeting in London before Christmas, which Norway led, we were in the process of implementing comprehensive plans for reform work on the Palestinian side, so that the money that emerged would not be lost in corruption or other disorder on the road. That work has to go on, and it's very negative if we just let go of it. But of course, we're going into an uncertainty period, where someone is going out and others are going in. That is exactly why we believe it is important that the international community now makes its mark and make it clear to its present and future governments what is the view of the donor countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-09.ana.ud1041e973	The Minister for Foreign Affairs and myself share the view on the importance of human rights dialogues, that it is important to maintain them and to develop new ones as well. I have previously, in my speech, given support to the new line towards Cuba, and the Foreign Minister has answered written questions from me about what one will do with civil society, and it is satisfying as it is black. On the other hand, there is a dialogue on human rights. It will evaluate. I now challenge the Foreign Minister, based on what he has said about it, to confirm that one will also try to get it started, because it is absolutely necessary to do it in relation to Cuban society. Then I would also ask the Foreign Minister to confirm that the content of his distribution is such that the two points on which the Progress Party has put forward proposals here are a concrete consequence of what he has also said, but that one here has a healing like a trying to last. If he confirms this, I would recommend that the proposer submit the proposal to the Government. It's unfortunate if we get a reconciliation here in the hall on something that's actually the government's policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-09.ana.ud1041e982	I would refer to page 16 of my statement and ask the representative Lilletun to read it. I hope that by reading it he sees that the government's policy here is clear and clear. I also say in this post that the world community should not now express itself in such a way as to promote uncompromising attitudes by making detailed and absolute demands. Nevertheless, we repeat what is the Norwegian general view, and I think that the representative Lilletun will feel good about what is Norwegian general view. On that basis, I believe that my statement clearly sends a signal to all parties, and not just to one. That's why it's a more representative expression of what's been Norway's line, and I hope we also have a majority in this room for that in time to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-09.ana.ud1041e987	The government's ambition is that the Barents Sea should become the'sea of cooperation'. This vision, supported by the Left, builds, among other things, on the assumption that high standards are to be set for the environment. The Minister for Foreign Affairs stressed in his statement the importance of us as a coastal state being a long-term administrator. The United Nations Environment Programme, UNEP, issued its Yearbook, warns against petroleum activities in the north. The UN Environment Agency is concerned that several countries, including Norway, are under pressure to use oil and gas resources in the north. Does the Minister for Foreign Affairs agree that it is important that the management of resources in the ‘seas of cooperation’ is based on a broad national consensus on a management plan where protection and activity are balanced? And: does the Minister for Foreign Affairs agree that governance must take place in a way that also clearly indicates to the international community that Norway is striving to find this balance between protection and activity?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-09.ana.ud1041e994	It is easy to answer yes to the question of the representative Kvassheim, and that is also the scheme outlined by the Government in its Declaration of Accession, in Soria Moria and in my statement. In my presentation, I put great emphasis on the importance of activity and that Norway is the leader in the different areas of activity. I believe Norway must have the ambition to lead in the field of energy. It shall occur within this balance between the environment and resource use, whether in the case of fish, in the case of petroleum or in the case of transport. The overall management plan, which I referred to yesterday as an important foreign policy document, will come to the Stortinget and provide a basis for this. In my conversation with my Russian colleague next week, I also want to pursue the idea of closer cooperation with Russia on how we can imagine a vision that such principles will apply to the whole of the sea. Of course, it cannot be that we dictate it, but Norway and Russia, who are responsible for these areas, work for it. That's the answer to the last question to the representative Kvassheim: It signals to the international community and to those most affected, that we have ambitions for this balance.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-09.ana.ud1041e1003	Just a brief comment on our proposal. It must also be seen in the light of Hamas’s history and the experience of the world community with Hamas. There are no requirements for Hamas that we have invented. These are requirements that have been set by several. But I want to move to the north and the relationship with Russia, where we are going to engage in active dialogue and cooperation in many areas. It's definitely something that we don't disagree with. But when we discussed the Northern Territory Communication in Stortinget last year, the Foreign Affairs Committee chose to introduce the human rights dimension. It wasn't in the first place. Can the Minister for Foreign Affairs confirm that in the action plan for our relationship with Russia to be presented next month, the dimension of human rights is safeguarded and will be part of the dialogue and cooperation we are going to have with Russia?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-09.ana.ud1041e1010	The representative, Høglund, spoke about the experience and tradition with Hamas, and I agree that there is reason to follow closely here. But when I underline the importance of having a balanced approach, there is also the experience and tradition of Israel and their compliance with resolutions adopted many, many years ago. Therefore, there is a need to be balanced in the approach. With regard to the northern regions and Russia, I can say that the MR dimension is central. It will be a separate chapter of this action plan. MR questions are also central when I visit Moscow next week. I would like, among other things: during my stay there having a meeting with a wide range of non-governmental organisations, NGOs, because we are engaged in their job opportunities. It is also part of the relationship with civil society in Russia, a structure that will find its place after 70 years of regimes without civil society. So this is important to us in that dialogue. It once again underscores the importance of dialogue, namely that we can have contacts with different parts of society at the same time.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-09.ana.ud1041e1017	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-09.ana.ud1041e1021	‘There is no development effort that is more effective than strengthening the position of women.’ With these words, the UN Secretary-General, Kofi Annan, UN Commission on Women, opened on 28 February 2005, and there is an opinion that I fully support. In large parts of the world, children and women suffer and die because they do not have access to a basic minimum of education and healthcare. 600,000 women die each year as a direct result of complications during pregnancy and childbirth. Twenty million. suffer from severe and prolonged illness and disability. And every year, 4 million die. neonates and millions more are injured due to poor follow-up and treatment during pregnancy and childbirth. The vast majority of these live in developing countries. When we know that there are women who bear the heaviest burdens in relation to children, family, work, the older generation and the surrounding environment, we can hardly imagine what a tragedy it is for a society. About 40 million. human beings are affected by HIV infection or are AIDS. Overall, HIV infection is the main cause of death in the 15–59 age group. HIV/AIDS has evolved into a catastrophic epidemic, among others. as a result of silence, silence from private individuals to the world’s top leaders. Mothers can infect their children through breast-feeding. In many countries, HIV-positive mothers who know this and have the resources to substitute milk in bottles, are still breast-feeding. The reason is simple, and it's tragic: if she gives a bottle, she could be suspected of being HIV infected. The fear of being pushed out is stronger than the fear of infecting their own child with an incurable disease. Therefore, maternal-child-infection medicine is very important to reduce stigmatisation and thus prevent further spread of infection. The co-operation administration provided a significant boost in the Norwegian aid effort in general. Norway has been among the three largest donors in the UN’s fight against AIDS. Norway has also contributed to the establishment of the Global Fund for the Control of AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria, a partnership between authorities, non-governmental organisations, UN organisations and industry, both globally and at country level. I am pleased that Norway is also an important contributor to measures that specifically strengthen women’s health, for example in relation to the WHO work for better reproductive health. I would challenge the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Government to follow up the work of the Cooperation Government in this area and increase the appropriations for projects and measures to improve reproductive health, in particular, and to focus on strengthening the position of women. Security Council Resolution 1325, on women, peace and security, requires all parties involved to respect and protect the human rights of women and girls, to prevent sexual and gender-based violence and to promote equal participation of women in peace-building and post-conflict reconstruction. Five years have passed since UN Resolution 1325, and UN Secretary-General Annan launched an action plan to implement the resolution in October 2005. This is commendable, but we must now at the same time express our great impatience in fulfilling the objectives of the resolution. The Millennium Goals cannot be achieved without doing more to meet the need for better reproductive health. Investing in measures to improve maternity care, better maternity care and safe contraception will reduce the suffering and poverty of many individuals and their families. The right to health is a human right, laid down among others. in the UN Convention on Social, Cultural and Economic Human Rights. The global challenges related to women’s health are therefore a question of the fulfilment of fundamental human rights. I would like to challenge the Government and the Minister for Foreign Affairs to say something concrete about how they will respond to the clear challenge of the UN Secretary-General, that there is no development effort that is more effective than strengthening the position of women in developing countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-09.ana.ud1041e1044	Yesterday's Foreign Minister's statement in Stortinget was good, Prospective and important. We received both a thorough review of the current and serious issues that we are all concerned with now, and a broad review of the more general principles and issues of the Government's foreign policy. It is reassuring that the Minister for Foreign Affairs so often stresses that Northern Region policy must be broadly anchored and encompassed in all areas of society. In the years since the start of the new Barents Cooperation in the early 1990s, inter-population cooperation has developed through both personal and institutional contacts. It's a cooperation that has meant a lot to the trust between people in the north who are going to be absolutely crucial in the years to come. But some of the biggest challenges we're going to face is that the north border not only marks a distinction between nations, but also between people with totally different living conditions. It is therefore important that we now continue and strengthen cooperation in the health and social sector, which has so far been a successful initiative, initiated by the first Barents Health Programme, which started in 1999. The Health Nord region is responsible for this programme, and it is now further increasing its efforts, including: by setting up a strategy group to provide health professionals with input to the Nordic Region Committee that was set up in the last harvest. Combating poverty, whether in Norway or in Russia, must not least focus on children and young people. It cooperated as the BUF Etat region north, i.e. the child protection authorities of the northern counties, have had public child protection in Karelen, have now remained for five years, and the experience of this cooperation is very good. The work has been funded in a disparity between the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality and has been aimed at exchanging professional methodology and experience in social work for children and families. We have seen an increase in our own country in children under the care of child protection over the last 10–15 years, but this cannot be compared with the enormous needs that exist in this field both in Karelia and in North-West Russia. Cooperation between the BUF Etat region North and the Karelia region has mainly been in the building of competences in relation to the region’s own professionals, where it has been the task of building alternatives to institution locations for children without parental care, such as foster homes and other adapted solutions. It is very important that the cooperation established in the north in the health and social field be followed up, including economically. It's vital that we now do what we can to reduce the enormous differences in health and living conditions between us and our neighbours in the east. Living cooperation in the north requires as much as possible between equivalent partners. In these days the festival «Barent's Spectacle» ends in Kirkenes, or rather in the Churchnes and Murmansk, for this great international cultural festival has set itself the goal of walking across the border in the north with its programme, which artists from five nations are behind. Here the audience has experienced concerts, exhibitions, literature events and other artistic expressions. In addition, an ice hockey tournament has been organised where professional Russian players have met their hopeful friends on teams such as Tromsø Hockey and Kirkenes Puckers, who are probably now walking around and looking forward to ice hockey if not too long can be a sport in North Norway too, and that thus one can get even closer cooperation with sportsmates in the East. I think it is important that we repeatedly stress the importance of inter-people cooperation, for example. in the field of sport and culture. I myself had the pleasure of being a host to artists from many different nations in my time as director at the party games in North Norway. Some of the finest memories I have are linked to the great Palestinian marking we had in 2000, where artists and cultural actors from Ramallah, Hebron and Jerusalem stood on stage in a small North Norwegian coastal town together with artists from all over the North Callot. It made a lot of sense to see how art across borders and cultural boundaries can find a common explicit expression that almost becomes like a language of its own that occurs there and then, which deeply affects us who experience it. Palestinian artists have a tradition of international orientation and cooperation, and contacts with Scandinavian artists and artists’ organisations have been good. The Family and Culture Committee also had a visit not long ago by a Palestinian delegation of artists who want to establish a contemporary art centre in Ramallah. It was an important and interesting meeting, and it is joyous and absolutely expected that Palestinian artists in the tense international situation we are now in, have heard their voice with strong defences for Norway and Denmark, strong calls for peace and reconciliation and clear distance from embassy attacks and flag burning. This is an important way for us – to build contact with even more countries, not least Muslims, through extensive and extended cooperation in art, culture, sport in relation to venues where people have the opportunity to meet, see each other and experience how strongly we relate to each other.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-09.ana.ud1041e1063	It struck me when I listened to foreign policy yesterday, and it strikes me when I listen to the debate today: it is good both for Europe and for the international situation that there are European countries that have a voice in foreign policy. It gives you a separate room, it gives you your own possibilities. The central party looks forward to an extension from the Government side of how Norway can be a driver for the UN to become a more effective organisation. Then we are very pleased that the Government, at the same time as she clearly rejects an application for EU membership, has started the important work of giving the EEA work a new one. There is no doubt that there is a need for better management of EEA and EU-related issues in Norway than has been the case until the government change. Here is a space for asserting Norwegian interests that the Government is currently viewing and taking advantage of. As mentioned in a reply from me earlier today, the Riksrevision presented a report in the autumn which showed that the management of EEA matters in the government apparatus has been irresponsible. Three departments were examined. The conclusion was inter alia: that Norway has been far too late to influence. In addition, the departments in key areas of relevant competence are missing, and we send ‘juniors’ to Brussels, called it. Furthermore, it was also pointed out that external actors, for example: voluntary organisations, to a small extent, were recruited and listened to. This is a report that is important to take seriously. Here is good advice for a government that has announced a more active European policy, and which is already well underway in the field of action. The fact that two government councils went to ESA to follow up a new round on the differentiated employer fee has given many municipalities and companies new hope. The government’s commitment to the European Parliament to influence the Services Directive is one of several examples of early impact. So, of course, it's not just the government that has a potential for improvement. We at Stortinget also have to go through how we can secure opener and wider processes. If the Storting is to be sure to enter earlier into the work on the development of new legislation in the EU, the processes in this house must also be changed. I would like to ask the Presidency to discuss with the Government how it can be arranged so that the Storting can at any time be up-to-date on what matters the EU is working on. Let me briefly mention a couple of keywords on what can be done differently from today. For the first time, the Match Government has to be out early. The work of the EEA Committee must be prepared in such a way as to bring matters before it. Furthermore, there is a question as to whether the treatment itself can be made more open. Can e.g. Meeting references as a general rule made public after a much shorter period of time? Today, the limit of a year, which makes a public change of words about the issues that the EEA Committee is always discussing, is difficult. How can we get routines that allow current organisations to influence? Can we, for example: play to a greater extent than today on teams with the Norwegian networks established in Brussels? The Joint Committees at Stortinget also need to be more closely involved in developing Norwegian positions. At this stage, Norway has the greatest opportunity to influence the content of the legislation that is being developed, as well as to point out how Norway will stick to it. This can be combined with hearings in cases of a high degree of principle and/or where there are many parties, and where there is a different point of view on how Norway should deal with the situation. The second point is that the Storting must act as a “required customer”. We need to set requirements for information and organization from the Government. A number of new legislation adopted by the EU are ‘small picks’ that can be implemented in Norway through regulatory changes. But just as it is, it also shows up things that are significantly problematic. It is then important to ensure that the legislative process that is taking place is at least as open and wide as when dealing with ordinary acts in Norway. This means that we have to be able to make demands on the Government for greater precision, in short, that it is becoming clearer and more honest to present the advantages and disadvantages of new legislation that is proposed. Perhaps the Government can play more both in the EU and in the many Norwegian functions that follow developments in the EU to obtain relevant information. It is therefore crucial that the process of the Storing takes place at a time when it is still possible to influence.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-09.ana.ud1041e1091	I am pleased that the Minister of Foreign Affairs, in his presentation, spent a lot of time describing the potential and challenges in our so-called northern regions. I think there's going to be a lot of practice to be able to achieve the ambition that these geographical areas will receive our greatest foreign policy attention in the future. There are a number of water retention and glances that have historically gone in the direction of completely different geographical areas, but the image that is opened and that is being opened, I consider positive. In the context of the conflicts we experience around the world, we know that in very many of these conflicts, there is energy – or rather a lack of energy – at the bottom. Future developments in our northern regions are very much about energy, but also about concepts such as the environment and other assumptions. When we know from this perspective that the world's energy needs after all estimates are going to increase by more than 60 pst. For the next 25 years, we'll see what kind of challenges the world faces. In this context, I also believe that we underestimate the conflicts of interest that we will face in these areas. Then the question is, are we able to determine the course itself? We have no historical experience in creating policies, either in our neighbourhoods or in our foreign policy thinking. What lies at the bottom of both the Northern Territory Communication and the political debate is that we should bet, we should take action, and we must be clearer in the language. What kind of research programme are we going to develop? What kind of policy, where do we want to be in 15 years, for example, in this Barents 2020 bet that we talk a lot about? This is where I think we need to take a clearer grip. Where are we going to be in 20 years? It is obvious that the management plan – and here we got a leak – that in many ways should be more than just an environmental plan, not at all clear about what goes on on our value creation potentials. It has been confirmed in all foreign policy debates, including today, that Norway is a small country in the world – and one refers to Lars Korvald. The head of the Foreign Affairs Committee even used this concept, that Norway is a small country in the world, and the more it repeats, the more we believe it. I am glad that the Foreign Minister himself did not completely swallow this, because nothing is more wrong than that. Norway is not a small country in the world. We're a geographic power force. Norway has more than 30 pst. of the land and sea of Western Europe. Norway is 60 pst. of the land area of the EEA countries. We are an energy-policy power force in the world. It's with this as a back cover that we have to grips with when we talk about the potential in our northern regions. If we don't, we can't achieve our goals. We can't even set ourselves the goals we want in a world where the demand for energy is what's the greatest of all challenges in the future. And when it comes to developments in this gigantic area, at least we have to have ambitions to put on a leadership shirt. If not, this becomes a puzzle, and there's a political development where we're at risk of being stuck in the Tribune. We see that the European Commission is proposing a comprehensive energy policy plan for the European Union. We see Russia and Germany talking more and more together about the development of long-term energy agreements. And we know that in Russia, business and politics go more hand in hand than they do in Norway. That's why we need to be clearer in our language of development in our northern regions, if we're going to achieve the goals we've set ourselves. It is a good start that we have been presented with the Northern Region Communication, and I think the Foreign Minister's statement and the mention and attention given to the Northern Region Policy are also a very good start.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-09.ana.ud1041e1108	I will initially give praise to the Government for the way it has handled the last days' events. Attacks on Norwegian embassies and Norwegian personnel in international operations are frightening and serious and difficult to understand for a nation working for peace and reconciliation. My post will essentially be from a defence perspective. I will first take the opportunity to give our soldiers in Afghanistan credit for their handling of the difficult situation that arose when the NATO-led ISAF base of the regional stabilisation team in Meymaneh, northern Afghanistan, was subjected to a massive organized attack. The group that attacked, used automatic weapons, hand grenades, pan-server rockets and fire bombs. Just skill and luck meant that none of the ISAF soldiers' lives were lost. Unfortunately, six soldiers were more easily injured in the critical situation, and reinforcements and aircraft support from, among others, were needed. Dutch F-16 aeroplanes and US A-10 ground supporting aeroplanes. In addition to British reinforcements, reinforcements were flown in with German helicopters. This aid helped to control the situation gradually. This shows the importance of NATO as an alliance, and not least the importance of having air control, with air support in place after a few minutes. In the next three months, Norway is on its way to contributing four F-16 aircraft to the ISAF mission in Afghanistan. The ISAF team plays an important role in the stabilisation of Afghanistan and is wanted by the elected authorities of the country. Norwegian military forces are engaged in peace and security efforts in Afghanistan, a country that has been under war, civil war, violence and oppression for decades. The ISAF team has a clear UN mandate, and it is led by NATO. The work of Norwegian officers and soldiers focuses on both the stabilisation of society and the reform of the security sector. In this way they directly contribute to the promotion of human rights in the country. I therefore fully agree with the Minister for Foreign Affairs that Norway must meet its long-term commitments in Afghanistan as part of NATO's bilateral and through various UN channels. It is therefore not appropriate to withdraw our forces from Afghanistan. I expect that there is a broad political consensus in the Stortinget also about this line. The government's foreign policy is enshrined in the Soria Moria Declaration with a value base that marks belief in common, justice and distribution. It is very important that Norway make an effort to combat poverty, make a fairer distribution and make a more democratic world order both globally and regionally. Norway shall be a clear nation of peace and contribute to the prevention, mitigation and resolution of conflicts. In its presentation, the Minister for Foreign Affairs put great emphasis on the northern areas as Norway's main strategic area in the coming years, which I fully support. The media can give the impression that many have expectations that the government’s Northern Territory Initiative also means a strong military structure in the north. It is therefore important to stress that the challenges in the north are not primarily the building of military power, but that energy development, transport, the environment and good management of important maritime resources must be at the centre. But I would also like to stress that the defence must have a natural and important role in this image. Finally, I would like to say that Norway should be a nation that places human rights, poverty reduction, a fairer distribution and a more democratic world order high. It's the Labour Party's policy, and it's the Government's policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-09.ana.ud1041e1127	I would like to thank you for a thorough and good presentation of foreign policy – in the light of the current and dramatic events following the printing of the Muhammad drawings. Of course, this has also shaped some of the debate today, but on the part of the Christian People's Party, we would say that it was wise for the Minister of Foreign Affairs in his presentation also to put the spotlight on other important foreign policy issues. It is important to focus widely, even though at the moment it boils slightly extra in some areas. I would therefore like to spend time commenting and making some point of view on what two governments have defined as Norway's main strategic focus in the coming years, namely the northern regions. The good communication of the co-operation government on the north, as underlined by the Minister of Foreign Affairs in his speech, is now the basis for the offensive Northern Region policy of the majority government. There is every reason to commend the Minister of Foreign Affairs for the offensive approach to the challenges in the northern regions – as Lilletun also pointed out by the Christian People's Party – and I can promise that the Christian People's Party will be an active contributor to the formulation of a sustainable and comprehensive Northern Region policy. You can ask the question whether you have created such high expectations that there is a certain danger that the arc might break. There have been enormous expectations in North Norway, while we know that in the Government there are very different views of the pace in, for example. oil and gas activities in the Barents Sea. Opinions from various government councils are striking, and the leakage has contributed to further debate. We all remember from Norway's history the battle of Svolder, when Einar Tambarskiveve's bow was struck by an enemy arrow and Olav Tryggvason asked the following question: What broke so high there? Einar Tambarskiveve replied: Norway by your hand, king. Now I don't think North Norway will disappear out of the hand of Minister of Foreign Affairs Gahr Støre, but there are many pitfalls and many opportunities for lack of arc in the North Region bet. It is extremely important to focus on an overall approach and recognise that everything is related to everything. I think that the broad mandate given to the Committee of Experts on the North shows some of the complexity. It's about fish, petroleum, health, travel, ocean law, culture, society, education and indigenous people – and I want to add agriculture and the defence presence in North Norway. If we are to succeed in achieving the expected development of the northern regions, we must have this broad perspective on policy development. We must seek close contact with the political environments in the north, which have great expectations, with business and, perhaps most importantly, with our relationship with our good neighbours in the north, with the EU and with the United States. In short, the presence of the defence in North Norway: the Minister of Foreign Affairs is offensive and says that we should increase the presence. The Minister of Defence has been the same. But the head of defense lacks money, approx. DKr 4 billion per year. years – he has notified it on several occasions. He points to two possibilities: either more money or restructuring. Then there will also be strong restructuring in the north. We already see the signal, that equipment and personnel are moving from north to south. I want to challenge the Foreign Minister for that very thing, even though he is not the Minister of Defence: should resources be moved, or should there be more money in order for the Defence to continue to have the position they have in the North? It is very important to have close and good cooperation with the business community. The NHO has been very active and pointed out a third of the challenges we face – they have called it a resource strategy, a knowledge and innovation strategy and a neighbouring strategy. On the part of the Christian People's Party, we see that this can be a sensible division to keep the debate in order. Finally, I just want to say that the Christian People's Party will be a driver and an active co-player in the development of the northern regions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-09.ana.ud1041e1150	The great injustice, the difference between poor and rich – the fact that millions of people live in starvation and distress – creates the ground for fundamentalism and extremism. As defenders of human rights, we cannot accept this injustice. That is why the UN has set the fight against poverty as one of its most important thousand-year targets. Those who suffer most from poverty are women and children. Therefore, several of the thousand-year targets are targeting them, against targets of: reducing infant and child mortality, reducing maternal mortality, ensuring universal access to reproductive health services, including family planning In the case of several of the Millennium Goals, good results have been achieved, but in the case of sexual and reproductive health rights, it goes wrong. The problem is accelerating, while financial support for many projects and organisations is stopping and we are facing major problems. The largest generation of young people are ever in the process of reaching their reproductive age. The HIV/AIDS epidemic is increasing in power, and the number of people now living with HIV/AIDS is estimated at more than 40 million. The mortality rate among women during pregnancy and childbirth is enormous. 99 pst. of the almost 600 000 maternal deaths occur in developing countries. The countries of Africa, south of the Sahara, are most affected. These figures are an expression of poor availability of prevention, lack of qualified assistance during pregnancy and childbirth, pregnancy occurs before the girls are physically mature, and that births and pregnancies often come too close. Thus, one in 16 African women in sub-Saharan Africa is at risk of dying during pregnancy and childbirth, while the figures in the Western world are one per cent. 2,800. Prevention drugs and condoms, also as a preventative measure against HIV/AIDS, are lacking. 200 million women and couples in developing countries have an unmet need for contraceptives. Unwanted pregnancies lead to high abortion rates, but the lack of qualified and safe help puts women at risk, and approximately. 68 000 women die in this way every year. The US with the Bush administration is now stopping money for organisations that have worked for many years for family planning and for reproductive and sexual rights. Money is channelled to those organisations that prescribe abstinence as the path to family planning. This development has been further reinforced through the pope state's place in the United Nations. This serves as an alliance that makes family planning difficult. Organisations such as IPPF – International Plan Parenthood Federation – one of the largest international family planning organisations, have been halted. The same is true of several other NGOs working on family planning. The government of the United Kingdom has now established a special fund to compensate for the US allocation boycott to organisations talking about safe abortion and prevention. As one of the richest countries in the world, Norway has a responsibility to be a driver of reproductive health and sexual rights. I believe it is now relevant not only to escalate this work, but also to earmark parts of our assistance for reproductive health purposes, such as: The Netherlands has done so. I hope that the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Assistance will consider taking such measures as: The Netherlands and the United Kingdom have done so.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-09.ana.ud1041e1184	Let me first express my satisfaction that the Minister for Foreign Affairs made a broad foreign policy statement. Even in a difficult and heated time, we need to discuss important foreign policy choices. It is particularly important to defend and promote freedom of expression when under pressure. The turmoil of the last few weeks has clearly shown that there is not too much freedom of speech in the world, but too little. There are too many people who have the automatic response that statements they do not like should be banned or punished. It must always be for Norway as it was for Voltaire: I despise what you say, but until my death I will defend your right to say so. Much positive has happened in and for Africa in recent years. There are fewer armed conflicts. It's less violence. There is more international trade with the continent. It's debt latency programs. Several free elections have been held, and some countries have also gone in the right direction in terms of both freedom of expression and freedom of the press. Ghana is a good example. Ghana is one of the very few African countries that have re-elected their democratically elected president. Ghana has gone from being a military dictatorship, like so many of its African brothers, to becoming a stable democracy. The path to democracy has been long and marked by violence, corruption, civil rights and constant pressure against freedom of expression. Now the United Nations ranks the country with the second best character in terms of both political and civil rights. I would challenge the Foreign Minister to introduce Ghana even more strongly for the efforts for democracy and good governance. We must never be afraid to reward countries that are going in the right direction, and we must also be able to use them as examples for follow-up. I have engaged myself strongly in the fight for human rights and democracy in Africa, and especially in Zimbabwe, in the last four years. Unfortunately, what's happening in Zimbabwe is the opposite of what's happening in Ghana. The repression is getting stronger and stronger. Freedom of the press is almost non-existent. Choices are carried out, but the result is well known in advance. And an increasing proportion of the population lives on an absolute minimum of existence. From the 1980 release to 1996–97, Zimbabwe was a good example of a country with stable governance, and it was among the richest in Africa. Unfortunately, there was little emphasis on the fact that the country was a de facto one party state. World society saw through its fingers that it lacked an internal political correction. From 1996 to 1997, President Mugabe himself felt pressured from an emerging opposition, and the screw was gradually tightened. President Mugabe has long shown that he is a despot and tyrant without concern for either the population of Zimbabwe or the country's economy. A few years ago, a report was presented showing that the president had himself transferred Yasir Arafat into personal wealth. I understand that it raises a certain awareness that a teacher has billions in account. From being one of the major food exporters, the country has now become dependent on food aid from the world community. Now about half of the population lives with chronic food shortages. I've seen the desperation myself. On one occasion I saw a dozen people being refused to go to the place where the World Food Programme distributed food, because they came from a village that supported the opposition. It's unsustainable, and it can't be accepted. The opposition party in Zimbabwe, Movement for Democratic Change, or MDC, has its own problems. The party has been able to withstand severe restrictions from the regime ever since the establishment of the regime. Now, after many planned elections, it is very likely that the opposition will split into two. In the light of the postwar clock, it is not difficult to see that the international community should start making demands – and they were too late. The first severe reaction should have occurred a few years after the White Racist regime was overthrown, when the massacre in Matabeleland was carried out, where an estimated 20,000 were killed. At the end of the 1990s there should have been consequences for the Harare regime that developments in human rights and democratic rules have gone in the wrong direction. Of course, it's easy to be after-clock. Norway must always be able to stand side by side with those who are fighting for democracy and for human rights. It must be independent of political colour as long as these principles are first applied. Norway is a major power in aid, and this power should be used to a greater extent. I wish I could spend a little minute on Kenya. Kenya is one of the countries where Norway took a naïve position — it was taken for granted that the new regime would follow up promises from the election campaign to combat corruption and disorder. It obviously hasn't happened. Norway needs to make stronger and clearer demands for assistance, regardless of positive notes from the new regime. Engaging in peace and development is not a parade march, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs himself expressed it. Our voice counts. Norway’s credibility as an aid nation depends on our setting clear conditions for the recipient countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-09.ana.ud1041e1210	From a broad international perspective, what distinguishes Norway is that we are heading north, and that we have a long coastline. Norway is north, Norway is coast. It can't be a goal to make us as equal as possible to everyone else. We have to take advantage of our advantage, and we have to take the responsibility that comes with our particular location. Therefore, both in our foreign policy and in our domestic policy, we need to focus on the specific opportunities and challenges associated with our interests in the North and in the coastal and marine areas. It is therefore very important that the Stoltenberg Government has clearly established that the northern regions will be Norway’s main strategic focus in the coming years. We have lost valuable time by the fact that the previous government waited too long to see these perspectives. The more important is the power of action shown by the new government. In my opinion, we need to raise five key issues in the North Region policy. Firstly, the international community must be united in resolving the environmental problems in Kola. There are huge stocks of nuclear waste here. This is one of the world's greatest environmental challenges, it's a threat to us and to the world community. Russia is unable to solve this environmental challenge alone. International interaction is required, where both the EU, the United States and others must continue to strengthen their commitment. Secondly, Norway and Russia must together ensure the sustainable management of our common fish stocks. It requires optimal long-term management, and it also requires better control of the resource outsourcing. We have seen serious examples of Russian fishing vessels fishing illegally. Norwegian authorities must invite a broad international commitment to unregistered fishing and to the environmental and economic crime it represents. Thirdly, we need to build trust by strengthening contact between people in the area. Cultural cooperation is important then, educational cooperation is important, and contacts between people and organisations are important. The Norwegian authorities must provide targeted support during this work and avoid the random budget cuts we saw under the previous government. Barrier cooperation needs to be strengthened both nationally and regionally. The Barents Secretariat and the Barents Institute of the Churches must be developed. Fourthly, we must contribute to social development and better living conditions for the people living in the area. New activities create jobs and revenues that will contribute to social development both on the Norwegian and on the Russian side. We need to create a stronger foundation for local communities along the Finnmark coast, and not least, new activity in the area must help improve the living conditions of our neighbours in North-West Russia. Norwegian authorities must contribute to increased international support for economic development in North-West Russia. We must contribute to addressing the health challenges in the area, and – fifthly – not least because of this – we need to use the oil and gas resources in the area to increase growth and better well-being. A quarter of the world’s undiscovered oil and gas resources are believed to be in the Arctic region — and a significant part in the Barents Sea. Norway must take the lead in developing its oil and gas activities in the north. We need to be active in order to gain the necessary influence, while Norway must, through its own activity, mark its own interests. We need to impose strict environmental requirements, and we need to develop technologies that allow compliance. In this way, we can influence both companies and financial institutions to impose stricter requirements on the activity also on the Russian side. We need to develop the petroleum activity in a strategic energy partnership with Russia in the north, as the Russian President has also invited. We must have the ambition that Norwegian companies, through their competence, will be able to contribute to development on the Russian side. But first of all, we need to focus on the possibilities on the Norwegian side. That is where the foremost Norwegian interest lies. This is how we need to safeguard our strategic interests, create new jobs in Coastal Finland, and so we can also develop technological solutions that provide competitiveness for Norwegian companies on the Russian side. In all these contexts, knowledge is important. Therefore, it is also important that the Government systematically facilitates knowledge building. We should therefore gather broad support behind the Government's ambition to consolidate Norway's position as the leading knowledge nation in the North. There is a close link between all these measures. Better living conditions will contribute to stability and relaxation. Economic growth will increase opportunities for better living conditions and increased knowledge will contribute to economic growth and sustainable management. Similarly, Norwegian domestic and foreign policies must also be seen in the context. Increased industrial activity, new jobs and more stable housing in the north give Norway greater weight to identify Norwegian interests in the north. Therefore, it is important to see it as an independent objective to ensure the main features of our national housing pattern. We need to have an offensive business and district policy to trigger the enormous opportunities in the area, not least active business and district policies are crucial to ensure our national interests in a broader international context. Therefore, the North Area Initiative must also include a more targeted effort for industrial development.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-09.ana.ud1041e1241	This foreign debate has a backstop of strong and deep tensions. Those tensions are affected both in relation to what is happening around our own country, in our own country as regards the debate on the caricatures of the prophet Muhammad, and in relation to what is happening in the Arab world by burning the consulate in Beirut, attacking the embassy in Tehran, and what has also happened in Damascus. Around this, the Norwegian foreign policy has formulated something that we all agree on, namely that we must be brave in dialogue, but at the same time stand under tension. It's a pretty challenging exercise. And I want to start at home: if you're going to be able to stand under a voltage, you have to be in a voltage that's honest. A tension should not mean hunting with each other. For example, it must be clear that the basic value of our freedom of expression is something that all religious views and opinions must adapt as a fact and a phenomenon in our society. But then any adult citizen can show that you have respect for the faith of people, you have respect for that belief that you can feel hurt. In this way, the open landscape of freedom of expression is used to express norms, values, ethics that can be mutual between people, and that ethics is no more perceptive than it is the one that bears all great views of life and religions: what you want others to do to you, you must do to them. It is written in the Gospel of Matthew and called the Golden Rule. It's bearable, but truly, it's demanding. I agree with the speakers who have spoken before today that, through many years of construction work in this country – in which many have participated – both by the majority of the Norwegian population, by ethnic minorities, by different religious communities – this is a basis for what we must at least regard as life-giving and positive in Norway. Then it's very important to remind each other that the prerequisites for a dialogue, that you have to be honest with tensions in the dialogue, never have to give up on the values in the dialogue, but you have to say that we're doing this. And it was like this once many years ago, when we got a fatwa against Salman Rushdie, that someone with strong faith could say: we understand why someone feels hurt by what they think is blasphemy, but we don't shoot people for that reason. And in the same way, we have to be clear about the line that many in this room – and I am one of them – have stood for, namely, that in relation to Norwegian ethnic minorities, we do not cut people over one comb. We see an individual for an individual, and we don't give up on drawing them in such a way that they have to feel outcast or stamped. Then it is truly liberating to get a signal back. For my part, I went on the street and was stopped by three Norwegian Pakistani youths who said, "You're the former Minister of Justice, you've told me you're going to use harpoon, and not snorkeling net, you're not going to cut people over one comb. Then you feel that the message is coming. And when you see at the same time that representatives of Muslim religious communities in dialogue with the Norwegian Church can send out the message to a world that the Nordics have different opinions, the Nordics are not the same black, then there are some values that have sat down in this landscape that it takes a lot of work to hold on to, but that I just want to express in this way. Because it's not the usual everyday practice of politics to be in the kind of tensions that I'm talking about here, but you know the world how important it is to do it. All those who have been engaged in dialogue and peace work in the big world, whether in Sri Lanka, Guatemala or the Middle East, have been in the same kind of tensions, and they are entitled to our support. I needed to formulate these reflections this way, because it's the kind of civilisation values that are at stake. I'll make a few brief comments about the situation in the north. It's said very important and correct about it. I have the reflection and observation that we are going to achieve with the ambitions that the Government has formulated, and for which it should have and should have broad support – it has, as expressed by the main speakers of the Left in the past – it is very important to seek many friends. It is with some concern that I find that if you travel around the European political landscape, you do not know what the world looks like north of Copenhagen. So it's a pretty significant everyday work, a pretty significant contact work to be done. I have the greatest confidence that our foreign management will do that work. That it does, I know, after hearing the Prime Minister of the Nordic Council, and that our foreign minister does, I know. However, I take the opportunity to say that all party groups in this Chamber in international contexts – in NATO, the OSCE, the Western Union – should use every opportunity to ensure that this theme is placed in such a way that the position of Norway is drawn as strongly as possible. This is where an alliance building is needed. We all have a job to do in that alliance building, regardless of where we belong, because it is important national and global community values that are at stake, and as a nation we have a unique opportunity to influence and shape them.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-09.ana.ud1041e1250	This debate has shown above all that there is broad agreement on Norwegian foreign policy and that the Government has broad support for its policy. There's also been a lot of important input, and it came, among other things. new recordings about Ukraine and Belarus to which I will join. I think it is important that we use organisations such as the Council of Europe and the OSCE, but that we also work across the EU to do something about the situation in Belarus, and also strengthen democracy in Ukraine. There have been many posts with different approaches related to the important north-eastern policy, although I personally fell short when I heard Morten Höglund talking about militarizing the Barents Sea. But I'm not sure that's what he meant. It is important that there is agreement on Norwegian foreign policy. We must be predictable, and we must be recognizable as a nation both towards allies and in our policies relating to international agreements, human rights, disarmament and an international legal order. Yesterday the Storting also showed that we are together in critical situations in the support that was given in agreement to the government's handling of the difficult situation of the last weeks and days. At the same time, the red-green government has a different value base than the previous one. Of course, it also has implications for the foreign policy mechanism, for the facility of our assistance, among other things. It means a foreign policy based on more international governance, a more active role in the world community and an increased focus on the UN, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs said in his statement. The UN Summit in September provided guidance for key areas. We're going to lead in the follow-up. We want a United Nations with high credibility on the outside, with the ability to reform and self-criticism on the outside. We also want to play a more active role in the UN's executive role in development and assistance. The UN agencies are perhaps the most efficient we have on the operational plane out there. They're where no one else gets there. They reach the most difficult places, the most vulnerable refugees – I have seen that for myself. Part of the reform work has also led to clearer coordination of the work of the UN organisations in the field and in the individual recipient countries, among others. on the establishment of the UN Resident Coordinator. One of the most exciting things in the Foreign Minister's presentation was that he presented a new African policy, where development policy and foreign policy are seen in the context. Seeking foreign policy cooperation with African countries and African institutions — both on African issues and on other international issues — is new, but it is very important. It also means a much greater degree of equivalence, where African policy is based not only on aid and peace-making, but also on trade policy, on fisheries, on the organisation of oil extraction and on industrial activities. At the same time, we are expanding our cooperation with the UN, the World Bank and others to ensure coordinated and targeted efforts to solve Africa's problems – eliminating poverty, creating growth and development and creating viable societies with good governance. Our security policy is based on the UN and NATO. We want to pursue an active policy in NATO to safeguard Norwegian interests and contribute to a good transatlantic dialogue. We must take an active part in NATO's modernisation policy. With NATO now covering almost all of Europe, the alliance is an important pan-European forum. EU defence and security policy is also taking place in close cooperation with NATO, which is of course important to us. The government's emphasis is on disarmament and arms control. On one essential point, progress is urgent, and it is a matter of non-proliferation and disarmament of nuclear weapons. Norway plays an important role in several forums – as a member of the IAEA Governing Board and as a leader of a seven-country group to try to move forward, following the collapse of the non-proliferation supervisory conference in May and the failure of the UN Summit to reach an agreement on how to proceed. Right now, the development of Iran's nuclear programme is extremely serious. Finally, I would like to add that on disarmament issues, the contract path is crucial – and probably the only thing we have – for the nitite and systematic work done in multilateral bodies.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-09.ana.ud1041e1271	Until World War I, the forerunner went into the fast lane between Hamburg and Arkhangelsk. Today, the fast route is known between Bergen and Kirkenes. It's a matter of reflection. The main road along the coast tied once east and west together in a way that meant that Norway was in the middle – and not a outskirts in the north. We know that cultural influences from the continent, from Russia and from local people such as women, men and men have created a wonderfully rich starting point for a brilliant culture in North Norway – a culture that we may not have known enough to appreciate in a national perspective. The Perspective Museum in Tromsø shows a beautiful exhibition about a viable, popular culture on the edge of the great politics of the past – the pomor trade, which gave life to economic and cultural diversity, in the language, in the adventures, in the humor, in the music and in the craft. Living culture is, in the broad sense, a prerequisite for a society to have the capacity for growth and survival over time. And maybe it was that communism and the closed border in the north made the Barents region from being a viable region to being divided into two poor regions, each of which have had problems surviving. We have to do something about this. The foreign policy discussion is, of course, about the major players. It's about the dividing line, about the important economic – visible – resources. But most deeply, it is our desire to develop a region that is viable in the public sense, that is viable from below – which is not only temporary viable due to some resources to be exploited. Then it is important that we strengthen the policy that is also about the people-to-people interface, the policy that actually makes us manage to live together and exploit cultural diversity to something that is becoming more, and not to something that unfortunately gets smaller when the assumptions are wrong. East Finland has not exactly been the economic sunny side of Norway. Just above the border lies a huge market, with a mere 1 million people. Here's the opportunity to get hold of it. Culture is created where cultures meet. The best meeting points are where cultures are different enough to work – we'll call them – exotic, but at the same time enough to trigger curiosity and things to get into good dialogue. The Barents region has the best starting point. It is the meeting point between two rich European cultural circles, between the two main lines of Christianity and between rich, popular cultures, which have at least periodically demonstrated the ability to live in cultural coexistence. We need actors like Pikene on the Bridge of the Churches, who are actively working on cross-border cultural cooperation. We may also need a renewed effort to think about people-to-people cooperation in terms of our foreign policy, in terms of culture. This does not apply only to the Barents region. I think the bar question might become so visible and so obvious to us that it can be an example that can also have further significance, because in a modern age and in a global society, the needs of the cultural policy area also change. Concretely for the Barents area, I think it is important to look at all the conglomerates of action and search agencies that cultural actors in that area have to deal with – the U.D. funds, Nordic funds, yes, at all. We also see that Sweden and Finland are probably not as much on the track as we are – naturally, because they do not have the same resources that trigger them to it. Perhaps it is also a task of foreign policy cooperation, in Nordic cooperation, to bring these closer together. We know that a cultural development company in North-West Russia is working on the model of the Council of Europe. It is also an important measure in this context. Here's a lot of things to deal with. Time limits me in doing it in its full width. But I think it's important that we maybe think through how we work in foreign policy in the cultural field to strengthen this approach. We need another climate – and Norway will benefit greatly from such a climate – where we get a cultural fast route that again runs between Hamburg and Arkhangelsk, and it is necessary that it is so well protected that there is room for many pikes on the bridge.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-09.ana.ud1041e1290	Yesterday, the Minister of Foreign Affairs stressed the importance of maintaining and developing relations with friends and allies in Norway, the importance of ‘being our friends’ – that is the concept he used. I agree that the Government should systematically develop political relations with friends and allied countries. I also fully agree that it is particularly important to develop links and develop coalitions with the European countries. This is not least when we want to safeguard our interests in the northern regions, which have been at the heart of today's debate. During the Cold War, great emphasis was placed on expanding the Atlantic connections. The United States naturally played a special prominent role for us. It was part of Norwegian interest insurance, and it was quite right. But this also meant that many Nordics found it natural to be withholding — to say it carefully — from criticising the United States in questions where we had a different view from the United States. Now the cold war is over. We now need to think carefully about which relationships we can best use to promote our interests and our views today. We're kind of going to stick the card and re-add the cards. If necessary, we should adjust the emphasis of the Cold War. In particular, the Minister of Foreign Affairs stresses in his statement that we need to develop a dialogue with our European partners on the North. I fully share that view. I also share the view that we need to pay particular attention to developing political relations with the European countries, not least in the areas of the North. It is linked to the fact that European countries can be particularly good interacting partners — to call them that. They share our view on environmental and climate issues a great deal, they have an interest in preserving the rich fish stocks since fish tend to end up on European food tables, and they also have important experience in cooperation with Russia. We can take advantage of such experience. The Minister of Foreign Affairs was recently in Berlin and had talks about the northern regions. He also gave a talk – I have had experience – highlighting the importance of interaction with Germany for Norway. Here it was shown that Germany is an important buyer of our energy, and that they share our positions on important environmental issues. I fully adhere to this emphasis of Germany as an important partner for Norway. I therefore look with interest to see how we can develop these links. It will be particularly interesting if we are able to develop cooperation projects in the north areas involving both Norwegian actors, German actors and Russian actors, as the Minister of Foreign Affairs suggested in Berlin. The German-Norwegian relationship is characterized by very close political and economic relations. Even before the reunification of Germany, the country was one of Norway’s most important partners in Europe. Both Norway and Germany are now showing an increasing interest in the development of cultural and bilateral relations. In my opinion, it is important and right that we strengthen our relations with Germany, both because of Germany's size and central location and because we share a common view of a number of areas. Norwegian business should — and I am sure it is — be very interested in developing the relationship between Norway and Germany. Just think what this can do for Norwegian oil and gas in the future! Already today, about one third of Germany’s gas imports from Norway are coming. Then I could mention travel, fishing and many other industries. I am pleased that both the Prime Minister and the Minister for Foreign Affairs clearly emphasise the relationship between Norway and Germany in the outsourcing of future foreign policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-09.ana.ud1041e1308	WTO negotiations will continue to be a central part of Norwegian foreign policy in the future. For a small, open and specialised country such as Norway, it is important that we have clear guidelines for trade. Trade is an important driver of increased well-being, including for developing countries. If we use our well-being to subsidise our exports or to shut down our land products, it is an effective way to limit the opportunities for wealth growth in developing countries. It is therefore good that the Government shows its willingness to negotiate in the WTO negotiations. It may be in place with a small conceptual clarification, as explained by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, on the position of agriculture. In contrast to agriculture, forestry is dependent on an open world and has adapted to an open world of trade. Forestry has a significant potential for increased district-based value creation if we only find out how to release it. When we talk about agriculture, we really talk about agriculture, and agriculture is definitely a major challenge in relation to the WTO. But at the same time, agriculture depends on our having a value creation in this country that allows support for agriculture. The WTO, in isolation, may not be able to become a winner in agriculture, but it is important that the process does not create more uncertainty than necessary. In this context, I would suggest that the Foreign Minister perhaps take time for an adult training course for the Minister of Agriculture. It is an undeniable fact that agriculture today has a structure and has found a division of labour between parts of the country and between those more governed by domestic policies than by the market. The farmer has been very capable of adapting to the political signals. The farmer is undoubtedly a good capitalist in the private economy. A WTO outcome will result in single-bonding facing major changes and challenges. That's where adult education comes in. We are now looking at an agricultural minister who is rather tightening up rather than slacking up agricultural regulations. This gives the individual operator less room for action in finding their own solutions in the future. I believe that parts of Norwegian agriculture can do well within a new WTO solution. Some people might choose niche production, others would choose size and co-operation solutions. For other parts of agriculture, it may be appropriate to define quite different objectives for the establishment than the production of food. The important thing is that one now has to let go of the creativity of the individual more, without a public bureaucracy having to have the last word in the discussion. The Minister for Foreign Affairs should make time for this adult training. The picture is not clearly negative for agriculture, but it is urgent to release the offensive forces, otherwise the Foreign Minister may have more problems than necessary to sell his message at home, and the Minister of Agriculture may be blamed for having tied everyone in agriculture to the same mast and then lower the boat with everyone on board.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-09.ana.ud1041e1317	Fortunately, there is a broad consensus on what the Minister for Foreign Affairs stressed in his statement that a country such as Norway has served to further develop the international legal order is important. That's how we can give the strongest right and extremism an ever narrower leeway in the international community. It is in our own part of the world that we have reached the most in terms of taking the consequences of the interdependence that exists between countries in terms of security, economy and well-being. In Europe, the highest level of law enforcement has been achieved, based on this inter-country interdependence. Although Norway is outside the political sphere and some other parts of EU cooperation, we are nevertheless strongly entrenched in cooperation, because we share this dependence between neighbouring countries. The framework and opportunities that this provides for policy in very many areas are far too little a natural part of the political debate, both here in the Grand Duchy and outside. The active, clear and open European policy action plan announced by the Minister for Foreign Affairs in his presentation must help to change this. I have this week attended a conference in Wilton Park in England where the theme has been EU cooperation in the future. One of the main features identified is the lack of ability and willingness to link policies at national and European level. If the political level does not have the means to communicate this context, it will also be almost impossible for other social actors and citizens to get to grips with this important dimension when discussing future policy. Today, this common addiction fascinates so to say all the crickets and hooks of our everyday lives. It's about terror and drugs, it's about jobs and the environment, it's about us as consumers in an international market, whether it's healthcare or tourism services we use outside the border. When seven or eight out of ten environmental regulations are adopted, the Stortinget comes from the EU and not from the Ministry of the Environment, the Stortinget must also spend more time on what is happening in Brussels. That is why, here in Stortinget, we have to respond positively to the foreign minister’s warning about an earlier and more thorough handling of EEA matters, as the representative Meltveit Kleppa also mentioned. This has also been pointed out by the Committee of European Parliaments in the EEA for several years. We should look at the Finnish Parliament, where the expert committees first deal with proposals for new EU legislation – and not, as with us, the EEA Committee. As we all know, when the Scientific Committees in Stortinget are asked to deal with matters, it becomes a summary, because it is «take it or leave it». So that's what we've taken, and that's how it's going to continue. In doing so, we quickly lose sight of the relationship that exists between what we are doing here in the house, and what is happening at the political level in Brussels, and of which we are part through the internal market. Let me also add another thought to consideration and thought. In Ireland, a few years ago, a national European forum with participation from the political environment and a number of other social actors was established. The idea was to have a forum to create the broadest possible common basis for European policy after the Irish No to the Treaty of Nice. We should consider something similar, because it could help to clear up the trauma that rests over all the Norwegian European debate, namely the issue of membership. This trauma also quickly comes to mind when dealing with different directives that will apply in the EEA area. Finally, the question of being able to test out the right of reservation is given a stronger focus than the possibilities to influence the outcome while there is still a political process in the EU bodies on the proposals. Such a forum could help to turn the focus from – I had almost said – a threat to dialogue and influence. It might also be a forum that increased understanding that, even in the EEA context, the starting point for an active European policy must be to safeguard our own interests effectively in the common dependence we live in. We can, to some extent – but only to some extent – choose how to organise our cooperation with the countries with which we are most integrated. What we can't pick out is our addiction. Therefore, there is a need to strengthen the understanding of what opportunities and frameworks the common dependence provides for the choices that we ourselves are going to make in more and more areas of policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-09.ana.ud1041e1338	After listening to the Minister for Foreign Affairs' very broad and thorough presentation and today's equally broad and thorough debate, I sit back with one question, but that is a very troubling question in return. We are rightly concerned about the destruction of Norwegian embassies and the burning of the Norwegian flag. We are very concerned that this has never happened before. It doesn't. But why are none of us concerned about the daily burning of the Norwegian flag side by side with the flag of our neighbouring country, the Danish, and the fact that Danish embassies are subjected to exactly the same treatment as the Norwegians? It seems to be of no concern either to the Government or to the Norwegian Government. One could almost get the opposite idea of today's debate, which is that some people are on the verge of saying that the Danes get what they deserve, whereas in our pretence we Northmen deserve something quite different. In the Secretary of State's long statement, there was one sentence that strangled Nordic cooperation, and that sentence was completely empty of content. It just said that Norway will work actively within the framework of Nordic cooperation, where we have this year the Presidency of the Council of Ministers – not one word about what you want to work with or for, in a situation where two of the Nordic countries are in exactly the same boat, and where that boat is bombarded. It is very interesting that the Minister for Foreign Affairs is having long and good discussions with his colleagues in other countries, both Iran and others. But why does the Minister for Foreign Affairs not find any reason to mention his Danish colleague at all? Has he not had any telephone contact with the Danish government at all in this situation? I am currently recording in Norwegian media that one Norwegian business stop after another stands up and expresses great satisfaction that Norway may avoid an Iranian boycott. Yes, God better. But it was actually a Norwegian poet who wrote for some years ago that ‘you must not tolerate so deeply well’ the boycott that does not hit you yourself. This gives cause for concern that, in such a unique crisis situation, we too are so enormously self-absorbed in this country. It is typically Norwegian to be good, there was a former Norwegian Prime Minister who said. I am afraid that it would have been more striking if she had said: It is typical Norwegian to be self-sufficient at the expense of others – even in crisis situations. On 25 January this year, we had a Nordic seminar here in the Nordic Council on the threat of terrorism in Nordic societies, and on what can be done to develop a common strategy between the Nordic countries to find the right balance between measures to combat the threat of terrorism and to safeguard the legal certainty of individual citizens – a very central theme in today's situation, and one would believe a core theme of Nordic cooperation, precisely in this situation. Now, incidentally, the Norwegian Government is responsible for the work of the Nordic Council of Ministers this year. Then it would be interesting to hear whether the foreign minister has thought about this perhaps a relevant issue – whether it might also be a relevant issue in Nordic cooperation for the Nordic countries that are not currently experiencing their flags burning, that there are two of the Nordic countries that are in the same boat. It wouldn't have been off the road if he had sacrificed a sentence or two on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-09.ana.ud1041e1355	The Minister for Foreign Affairs said in his statement that our greatest challenges are probably about the climate on earth and the fight against global poverty. The last nine years that have been measured in the world since such measurements started in 1861 have been the hottest. Svalbard experienced last year's warmest year ever, with an average temperature of 3.6 degrees above normal. Now there is a drama on Svalbard that has not yet reached Norwegian newspapers. It's not ice in the fjords of Svalbard this year. As we know, the edge of the ice tends to go far south for Svalbard in a normal year. That means that the animal life of Svalbard, which depends on that ice, has a hard time. Ringed females now go pregnant and should throw, or feed, kids on the ice during the spring. They depend on ice to feed. We don't know what's going on, maybe there won't be any kids on Svalbard this year. We know that when the ice is there, the ringing food is for the polar bear, which depends on the same ice to hunt for the ringing. The polar bear is difficult now when the ice lies north of Svalbard. The warming happens fastest in the Arctic, and what happens to the Greenland ice is perhaps the most dramatic thing we can imagine in the long term. If the Greenland ice disappears, the world's oceans will rise by over seven meters. It'll take time. But the scientists say that maybe in this century we will experience the sea rising by as much as one meter. That equals half of Bangladesh. The question is no longer whether we can prevent climate change from occurring, but whether we can adapt quickly enough. On the other hand, we can reduce climate change emissions and avoid the most dangerous climate change. Despite the fact that what is happening in nature now is frightening, I would say that the most frightening thing is the absence of a global political leadership capable of preventing climate change from occurring. As head of the Nature Conservation Association, I was in Kyoto in 1997 and experienced enthusiasm when we reached a climate agreement, even though it was on the drooling hair that something happened. Since 1997, we have seen little about global leadership. In Montreal we were able to prevent the collapse again in the harvest, and the work on climate change continues. I have proposals for three initiatives that I want us to continue working on to be able to get on the offensive. We have to bet heavily on technology. In the international climate negotiations, countries that are largely non-committee countries are talking about technology. We who are busy with commitments need to talk more about it. And we who have the opportunity to develop CO2 deposits have the opportunity to engage in dialogue with the United States that a few other countries have. We have to take full advantage of that. In order for climate change to be taken seriously, it must become more visible to people most through new studies. A study that was done, called ACIA, which is about the Arctic climate disorder, is exemplary. It was a significant contribution to Russia's ratification, and to the refusal of seven US states to Bush and the introduction of its own climate regime. Sheila Watt-Cloutier, who received the Sofie Prize last year, was one of the driving forces behind that report. She now writes on her book "The Right to Be Cold". She represents the Inuits in North Canada, who lost their livelihoods. Norway should take the initiative to pursue this by obtaining a separate addendum in the Arctic climate agreement on the situation. Another area that might be hit just as hard right now is the Himalayas. The glaciers of the Himalayas are retreating quickly. Himalayas are responsible for water supplies to China and India, half of the world's people live downstream from Himalayas. If we could get a climate study on a pattern from the ACIA report on the Himalayas situation, there would be a chance to engage in dialogue with the two largest countries, which we are totally dependent on talking to if we are going to solve the climate crisis in the long term, namely India and China. It's not random that this year's edition of Earth's state from the Worldwatch Institute is solely about the two countries that play a key role. We will return to environmental policy, and this will be important initiatives in the global contribution.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-09.ana.ud1041e1379	The President will propose that the speakers who will be given the floor now have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-09.ana.ud1041e1384	Let me first say that I support the latter speeches in that it might be interesting if we could contribute to a climate study in relation to the consequences of the Himalayas. But that's not why I took the word. I took the floor because the Council of State in the exchange of lines signed about the donor country group linked to the Palestinian self-government areas was given a short time. I understand that one minute is a short time to explain it. I'll give him the chance again if he has more on his heart. I would like it to be ensured that there was a dialogue with the Storting about the development of an area where there is now great explosiveity. We grant a lot of money, and the Storting has a special interest in being well informed about whether there will be a coordinated view of the situation between countries, or whether there will be a fragmentation of who will contribute and in what way, and not least how we can ensure that we get the transparency in decision-making processes and in the use of money that is necessary. One thing is the political situation associated with Hamas winning the election and probably taking over the government. The second is the fact that everyone understands that the use of our money in this area has not been good, because it is an area where the money – including the Norwegian taxpayers’ money – has been spent on projects that have not provided full benefit, and partly because the system has had little transparency and backwardness on how to use the money in the future. In a situation where it is politically important to ensure that there is a development in the conflict between Palestine and Israel, but also in a wider Middle East perspective, it is our position that we should not impose on the Government any special message, other than what we have given from the interlocutory today, in relation to the relationship with the new government to Hamas. I also think that the Council of State has confirmed that we agree with these questions when it comes to the main lines. But it requires close links and information to the Storting in the future about development. Not least because these are large amounts of money, which we are helping to support the development of the Palestinian territories, and which hopefully will contribute to peace, reconciliation and, eventually, economic development that will provide a better situation for those living in the area, both Israeli and Palestinian.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-09.ana.ud1041e1396	A number of important articles have come after I made my last post. I can't comment on everyone in detail. Let me first say that I have noticed good suggestions from among others. Mr Svein Roald Hansen on a European forum. I think that's what I deserve to be studied more closely. Also from the representative Sørensen there were good proposals, on follow-up on the climate side. I mentioned it at the end of my presentation, and I think it's a work we have to go much deeper into. It is a work that the Minister for the Environment, the Minister for Development and I intend to sit down and look at together. It brings me to the posts of the representatives Sjøli and Hildeng – and also from the representative Knutsen on health in the north. The interesting thing about it was that you put health in a foreign policy context that I would like to welcome, and that is an area that I intend to get wider back to on a later occasion. I think it is very positive that here in Stortinget a network of representatives has focused on the subject of resolution 1325, reproductive and sexual health. This is a core issue in development work. I have worked a lot on it in previous capacities, and it is an area that the Minister of Development and I are also concerned about. I can assure you that the support for the Global Fund for the Control of AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria will continue. This is also linked to the vaccine initiative, which is an opportunity to make representations to mothers. Through these different health programmes, it is very important that we now create meeting places where one dimension can be put on top of the other. This is going to be cross-referenced. Experience from the Norwegian primary health service is important to take this work into account. In several African countries, we have done valuable work on the aid side by supporting the development of primary health services – precisely what is needed to reach women in need. Now I'm going to be careful to give the Storting advice, but let me make a little suggestion. I don't think that the Swedish Foreign Affairs Committee recently visited Geneva, where we spend a lot of our resources on humanitarian and social programmes that have been linked to, among other things. This. It concerns the World Health Organisation, but it also applies to the High Commissioner for Refugees. Many women experience the most brutal abuses, such as: is covered by what you picked up here. I would also like to say very clearly that the line that the Bush administration has to cut support for this type of action is completely wrong. We're going to go against it, and we're going to do what we can to support that kind of development program. Then I can reassure the representative of Wohnning that I have had more discussions with my Danish colleague and the Prime Minister with his Danish colleague. We have an ongoing crisis preparedness, as it happens between Nordic peoples when it's difficult times. So I have not had reason to address Denmark in particular, because our embassy there is safe. I have not heard that they have addressed us in particular, because they can be quite safe on us. We stand by each other in such a situation. It has nothing to do with self-righteousness. It has to do with Nordic cooperation and to focus on the challenges that arise. Then I also welcome all the good recordings in the northern areas. We take the suggestions with us in the further work.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-09.ana.ud1041e1417	I have also not believed that the Danish Embassy in Oslo was in acute danger, or that the Norwegian in Copenhagen was in acute danger, but I found reason to point out that it is remarkable that in all the statements that have fallen in the dramatic days, the consideration of our neighbouring country in the south has not been mentioned with one single word. It's an ancient Roman saying that when it burns in the wall of the neighbor, it concerns you. It's probably an understatement. I would also believe that when the neighbor's flag burns, it concerns you, especially when your own flag burns on the same fire. It is gratifying that there has been a contact between the Danish and Norwegian governments, and that it has now been said from Stortinget’s pulpit that it may have a certain meaning. But just in an Ibsen year, it must be allowed to remember that if it had not been because of the apparent absence of solidarity and cohesion between the Nordic countries, neither ‘Brand’ nor ‘Peer Gynt’ would have happened. It may also be worth remembering that the point in ‘Peer Gynt’ – which most people on the globe have brought with them, it may only be here in the home country that we haven’t quite gone up yet – is that there’s a very crucial difference between being yourself and being self enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-09.ana.ud1041e1424	I thought it was interesting that the representative Wohnning brought it up with Denmark, because that's right what he says, that it has been rather absent from the posts we have had here today, that a neighbouring country is in an even more difficult situation than us. At the same time, I believe that there is reason to go after, when this is probably slipping over, to look at why conditions have developed internally and therefore externally in these two countries. With the investment made over many years in Norway when it comes to building trust and dialogue, the Norwegian Muslims seem to be our supporters of the authorities, while one in Denmark has ended up opposite due to a lack of dialogue. There may be more issues under here, but I thought it would be interesting to look at it afterwards, because it is obvious that Denmark has had a separate more heated and polarised debate. And then we see two different consequences of that. It's too easy with the knowledge that we have, to conclude the bastant here, but that's how far the observation is. Otherwise, the representative is entitled to pay because this has not been particularly present in the debate today. So to what the representative Erna Solberg took up, and the Foreign Minister didn't have time to respond to in his post, this with the donor country group. We've heard the Quartet, and it's perhaps most clearly stated by Chancellor Merkel, we've heard President Mubarak through his spokesman, and we've heard Abbas's expression very accurately when it comes to what's expected of Hamas in the long term if one's going to continue with transfers and additions. It is clear that it is of interest to this House to right the way the Minister of Foreign Affairs views it, according to the important position he has as leader in the donor country group. I agree that the pages 15 and 16 in the manuscript of his distribution take care of a wholehearted view of developments in the Middle East. And as I read it, the two points in the proposal from the Progress Party are also covered in the two sides. That's the clear premise that I'm basing on there. But there's more in these two sides, and that's important. I would like to ask the Progress Party specifically to turn the proposal into a transmission proposal, given that these points are covered here.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-09.ana.ud1041e1433	There was another representative of the Right Party who took a lot of my time, so I'm sorry I didn't come back to the representative Erna Solberg. Providing a little more detailed information on the donor country’s work to the Storting is a good proposal. I look forward to doing that. Let me also say that our main lines are drawn up in the statement we've given, where I've wanted to express myself in two ways: I think it's wrong for the world community now to express itself in a way that drives the parties into ultimate positions, where they position themselves so that there is no room for manoeuvre. It has been obtained from several teams. I also notice that from teams that are very clear on individual points, the meaning of the subject matter is now emphasised. At the same time, I have said what is Norway's main position, which we are going to deal with, which is what democratically elected governments have as their course. There's a clear signal on the main direction. Now we have conversations directly and indirectly with a large number of these parties, and I want to come back and brief on that strategy at an appropriate time and in an appropriate way. The quartet's broadcast, Wolfensohn, is now in the region. He is trying these days to get a first collection of resources to ensure that President Abbas’s authorities can pay salaries to Palestinian officials and servants in the coming weeks. Norway intends to put it in that fissure layer, within the budgetary framework we have already decided. We want to be early out, but this is just an emergency situation. The big question is which setting to have for the government that had to come, and what program the government had to have. There are so many uncertainties here that I don't think we should complicate it any further. But I thank you for the invitation, and we're going to get back to it in an appropriate way.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-09.ana.ud1041e1444	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-09.ana.ud1041e1460	I have no intention of bringing up a longer debate – with a relatively short and unanimous vote by the Committee. Nevertheless, I think that the position on the activities of the Council of Europe deserves to be referred to by the case-rapporteur from the Chair, in particular in the light of the serious events in the Middle East and in other countries, which emphasise the need for dialogue and defence of human rights and freedom of expression. The Council of Europe is precisely such a dialogue forum, although it has no direct link with the events in question. But it is a dialogue forum on the European continent. It's an organisation with 46 Member States, with a total of 800 million. residents. We might sometimes take for given networks that exist, but that don't always create the big headlines. The Committee underlines the importance of the Council of Europe for the establishment of dialogue and cooperation in Europe and for the search for fundamental values, human rights and the principles of the rule of law. The Council of Europe contributes to the consolidation of democratic stability by supporting political, legislative and constitutional reforms. The strength of the Council of Europe is to develop standards in the field of the rule of law and democracy. This is a fundamental contribution to the prevention of conflicts and the safeguarding of human rights. Although the primary responsibility for the protection of human rights lies initially with the Member States themselves, the Council of Europe contributes in the prevention field through the development of democracy, democratic participation and good governance. On the part of the Committee — not to say Norwegian — we are committed to having an effective European Council, which involves transparency, efficiency and resources. It is necessary to ensure good cooperation with the other European architecture, such as the European Union and the OSCE. The Committee emphasises that we must strive for a common standard of human rights in Europe based on the European Convention on Human Rights, and we have noted the proposal for a Constitutional Treaty in the EU and the prospect of the EU becoming a party to the Convention. Reforms are needed to strengthen and streamline the work of the Council of Europe, and in particular to ensure the future of the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg. The Court of Justice must have the capacity to follow-up cases of breaches of human rights, to reduce the large balances and to reduce the length of proceedings. It has to do with the credibility of protecting human rights. My small contribution in this matter is to underline the important instrument we have on the European continent for the protection of human rights, democracy and the rule of law. Norway must continue to play an active role in this work. With a little rewording, I think this is completely in line with the unanimous committee setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-09.ana.ud1041e1483	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[See page 1302]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-09.ana.ud1041e1499	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 1302]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-09.ana.ud1041e1515	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 1302]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-09.ana.ud1041e1523	The increase shall now be added to the case No. 1 to 5.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-09.ana.ud1041e1546	During the debate, Mr Höglund put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the following minimum requirements for cooperation with future Palestinian Governments:1. Acknowledging the State of Israel2. Retiring and actively combating violence and terrorism’ Mr Höglund has asked for the floor to explain the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-09.ana.ud1041e1558	During the debate, we have been invited to turn this into a transmission proposal. I just want to be allowed to comment briefly. Unfortunately, we have not intended to comply with that recommendation. We do not think that either in the statement or in the course of the debate, things have come to light that this proposal should not be voted on.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-09.ana.ud1041e1565	It was I who challenged the representative Morten Høglund and the Progress Party to refer to the proposal for a transmission proposal. As this does not happen, I would encourage the Christian People's Party to vote against – not because we are disunity in the two points, but because I think this is embedded both in our post here today and in the Foreign Minister's statement. He has said that he will come back when it comes to the strategy for the giver land work, where Norway has the leadership. We then thought that it was common practice for the Government to design foreign policy and that that is what we want to follow. At the same time, I'm saying that we're some of what's the substance of the two proposals, but that's just part of a whole thing. We want the whole thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-09.ana.ud1041e1572	The proposal by Morten Høglund, on behalf of the Progress Party, is then put to the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-09.ana.ud1041e1584	The President proposes that the foreign policy statement by the Minister for Foreign Affairs at his meeting on 8 February 2006 be annexed to the minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
