ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22-lower.ana.ud1313e29	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the Odel Sting today – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Ågot Valle. – Other proposals are not available, and Ågot Valle is considered unanimously elected president of the Odelstinget meeting today.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22-lower.ana.ud1313e50	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 10 minutes and that speaking time be allocated as follows: Working Party 20 minutes, Progress Party 15 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes and Left 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a succession of up to five lines with replies from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time and three lines with replies after contributions from the main speakers from each party group. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22-lower.ana.ud1313e61	During a big debate in 1921, Johan Gjøstein of the Workers' Party went up to this pulpit and suggested that only the higher schools that built on the final exam from the primary school should receive state aid. The schools reserved for the elite would no longer pay society for. The Løvland State Council of the Left supported the proposal. This was going to be one of the most decisive decisions that we in Norway have a school for everyone. The right was the opposite, but a broad centre-left alliance agreed to use State aid as a means of promoting the single school. The Labour Party believes that this has contributed to the story of Norway being about whatever kind of home we come from, we understand each other, because we've gone to school together. Either the father is a Supreme Court lawyer or a social client, the kids are sitting next to each other in the same classroom. We meet parents from different communities on 17 May and at parents' meetings. It's one of the finest in Norwegian society, and it's laid the foundation for one of our most important ideals: we're going to have the same possibilities. It provides a basis for people to take different career choices later. Because it's social equality that gives as many diversity as possible. Parents have always been able to do as they please, and have had primary responsibility for making choices in relation to children’s schooling. The parental right is protected by law. But the common values of society, that is, the money society spends at school, have been linked to our common objective of social cohesion. We have had some alternative schools, well supported by the Workers' Party. Schools that have been a pedagogical option have received State aid. The Stoner School, and in recent times the Montessori Schools, have been important supplements and have helped to develop the Unitary School. Schools based on religious beliefs, which have a good professional and social structure, have also received support. They'll still get that. The big change in Norwegian private school policy came a few years ago. The right did not change vision. They have never defended a comprehensive social cohesion policy in either housing policy, welfare policy or school policy. But the change came because two centre parties voted for the first time for a new design of the state aid. Over 80 years after the Stortinget took its one-school decision, the Right Pass was passed. Large chains without ideology or any particular educational or religious assignment would be allowed to establish schools on behalf of the community. The increase in private school places at secondary level was 150 p.m., and many public schools throughout Norway were threatened. This change was experienced as very dramatic by many centre-left parties in Norwegian municipalities and counties. Yes, even the Free Schools Contact Forum, which organises the various private schools, writes that they understand that there was a negative reaction to the high number of places and the many schools that were approved. After the election, when the Clemet Council knew she was going to leave, she also accepted over 4,000 new school places in addition to what the Education Directorate thought was a professionally sound practice of a very liberal private school law. So she helped to reinforce the negative consequences. Some call private schools freedom of choice. But let's look at the experiences of our neighboring country. The public schools are very good, but only the fear that one's own child will not get it all, the very best offer, makes the upper middle class and the richest take their kids out of public school to a greater extent. The release there had far more dramatic consequences than expected. The professor's daughter goes to the same school as his son. Despite the fact that Sweden has free private schools, freedom of choice in the real world has become a means for the most resource-intensive. We also need children with well-trained parents in general school. Studies from Denmark show that these students have a very good impact on the learning conditions of the other students, while students with a lot of resources on the other hand do not become professionally weaker by going to a class where there are many at a low level. There are many parents who fear that their children will not be well educated. This fear was heightened by the previous government here at home because the municipalities got less money to run the school for. We will replace the fears of parents that the children will not learn enough in the public savings school of the Right, with the certainty that everyone will learn more in the common school. The Labour Party is fighting against a policy where they spend the most money and resources exploring their own residential areas and in their own schools, well protected from society as it really is. Then the kids don't learn how different people are, but grow up in a demarcated world without diversity. In a society where standards and values are becoming increasingly different, we need to strengthen our common meeting places and institutions, so that we understand each other better. The private school policy of the Advance Party is about everyone getting a check from the public, so you can buy the school place that you think is the best. But people don't work like that when it comes to school, like in the market. There are very few parents who shop school places for their kids according to the same principles as they buy shampoos at the store. The logic of the market cannot be used to improve the school. And which private schools will take in little Per with big learning problems when the check he brings with him from the public is at the same amount as the check for all the other children? Kids are so different. So we can't put the same price on the whole bundle. The majority government wants everyone to have the right to a safe schooling for the young in their own community. That is why we are strengthening the public common school. A dramatic increase in the number of private schools was a threat to many public schools, and I wonder why an overall opposition chooses to make false claims about the freeze in the position. The opposition claims that the majority will freeze the approval of not only the private schools for one year but also the vocational schools. The opposition also seems to agree that the majority's vocational school policy is gender discriminatory. It seems surprising to note that the Progress Party – the party that declared in the debate on the school budget six months ago that equality in Norway is complete. Let it be clear: the law does not mean any freezing for the approval of new vocational schools. But when the opposition has to resort to false representations to get together, it does say a lot about how little that really unites them. I am not surprised that they agree to defend the approvals granted by the previous government. They do feel obliged to do so. Nevertheless, we know that local politicians from the centre parties all over the country were also concerned about the release to which the previous government contributed. I hope that the centre parties will find back to the policies of the Gjøstein Workers' Party and the Løvland of the Left Party, and that the Right Party at the time of the Fist of: a school where everyone gets the same opportunities regardless of which family you were born into, because all kids will have the same opportunities to succeed.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22-lower.ana.ud1313e97	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22-lower.ana.ud1313e100	We have a situation in Norway where many Norwegian young people are not allowed to develop their potential because the school is too monotonous. Despite the highest teacher density in Norway per year. students and the highest expenditure per year; student, Norwegian school only performs well. Wouldn't it be natural in such a situation to look at the possibilities of differentiation in Norwegian school, so that we get more alternatives? And won't it be that, through greater diversity, more students will be able to find an offer that suits the individual, and thus develop their potential?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22-lower.ana.ud1313e105	If we look at the experiences of our Nordic neighbouring countries, it is an undeniable fact that the establishment of several private schools has led to less equality between people. It has become a freedom of choice for those who are the most resource-intensive. And we've seen, among other things, in the Danish public school to parents most of those with a lower level of education now than a few years ago. This is because many have fled public school. I think we're going to have a public school that helps make it a diversity of students. We need some educational alternatives. It can help us get more impulses to public school, but the release that the previous government provided would help undermine public school, take money away from public school, and also contribute to a two-part school system.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22-lower.ana.ud1313e112	The Workers' Party is involved in comments on the position to support the parental right, i.e. the right of parents to establish health schools, and also wants to be a defender of at least parts of Friskole-Norway. But then they agree to introduce an emergency law that stops all the establishment of hospitals in Norway, and gives the law retroactive effect, contrary to good administration. Then an association of 40 of the schools that had been approved in advance, offering a compromise where they cut the proposal for the number of approved schools, comes to 5,000, i.e. to a marginal part of the original one. Why – and that is my question – would not the Workers' Party accept this extended hand and give them the opportunity to establish themselves? Then one just failed to break with predictability and accountability in relation to the treatment of the law.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22-lower.ana.ud1313e119	We did not want to implement the proposal that was made, because we knew that the establishment of many of these private schools would contribute to little predictability for very many municipalities and county municipalities. We knew that it would take money from public schools, and thus create enormous unforeseeability for very many people who are doing public school planning in Norway. When you talk about the human rights section, it's not about a positive obligation to organise, but it's about the state not putting obstacles in the way, that is, protecting against interference. But we want a sustainable private school law that facilitates alternatives to strengthen parental rights, with some educational alternatives, including alternatives to religious schools. But that's what we saw released from the previous government, we wanted to stop.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22-lower.ana.ud1313e126	After the representative Huitfeldt has used lush language, I will do the same. Because there's no doubt that what the government uses to stop what they don't like is a guillotine. This guillotine takes too much of the body — it not only hits the schools for which Huitfeldt’s representative has luxuriantly portrayed, it takes with her Montessori and Stone Schools, for which she is in principle a member. You hit 6A schools, schools that have a social mission, you hit colleges, schools that aren't the only person in this room that I've registered, are the opposite. And at the top of it all, there is a risk that schools that only support education can lose support. I'm going to be very simple, because the government parties got an opportunity to clear it out of the way, and then the representative Huitfeldt will also get the opportunity here: can she guarantee that schools should not lose the student support as a result of the change in law? And can she guarantee that schools which have sole support under the Education Aid Act will be guaranteed such recognition through an extension of the current regulatory regime until the application has been dealt with under the Law on Secondary Education? Can she guarantee this?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22-lower.ana.ud1313e133	We do not want any specialised schools to be hit by the temporary post-school freeze. That is not the purpose of the law either. Let me, for example. mention a school called Spin Off, where we saw unfortunate consequences of the temporary law. We went in there and got solutions so that they could continue with support, and also continue to receive educational support for the students. It is our intention that we not hit any of the technical schools, nor the training aid for the vocational schools. I consider the whole discussion about colleges as a wild derailment from parts of the opposition, in order to get focus away from what is good about this law, namely that we are now able to stop a release that the previous government offered. That's what's going on. I am not surprised that the representative Dørum does not want to focus on these questions, because here I think he really shares the views of the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22-lower.ana.ud1313e140	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22-lower.ana.ud1313e144	I feel a need to comment briefly on the last exchange of lines, because I think it limits to boldness when the representative Huitfeldt claims to know what the representative Dørum means, better than the representative Dørum himself. I think that is a strange conclusion. Odelstinget is currently dealing with a matter which fortunately is rare in this room. The Law on Changes to the Law on Secondary Education and the Law on Vocational Education puts democratic bodies to a serious test. Today, a temporary law is being dealt with which will have far-reaching implications for the relationship between citizens and the legislative authority in both the short and long term. The government's attack on colleges is hard to understand. It is claimed that the primary school is ensured only through the public-owned school system. Everyone – and we heard the representative Huitfeldt say it from this pulpit a little ago – regardless of the background of the same school. Society has a responsibility, writes the Department of Proposition, so that everyone is given «equal opportunities so that the right to equal education becomes effective». So, in practice, the ministry is promoting a proposal on the opposite, despite the fact that Huitfeldt's representative is drawing to the great heights and claiming the opposite from the pulpit today. In fact, the Ministry maintains the freedom of establishment of secondary schools in the Education Act, and that means in practice that anyone can start a private secondary school, operate without public support and require several hundred thousand kroner in self-payment from students. And with today's desirable results in public school, it's not quite unlikely that people with more money than most people will give priority to the best possible education for their children, for example, by buying private places in such an elite school system for the richest. Why does the Government want to facilitate it? The reasonable thing would be, if the beautiful words of the ministry were something more than just that, to give everyone equal rights to education regardless of who provides the education, through an equal funding scheme for everyone. The Progress Party has proposed that all students be covered in 100 pst. the costs of initial training, whether it is a public owned school or a high school. When the Ministry claims that only the public school ensures diversity and community, the same department gives a few relevant arguments to support such a position. There is no empirical evidence in the proposition that the Ministry's political rhetoric is different from beautiful but objectively unfounded words. No reference is made to a single study as a background to the position of the department. It is claimed that most parents are satisfied with public schools, therefore alternatives should not be allowed. What kind of argument is this? Well, it's a traditional socialist argument without any background other than ideology. Norwegian school and hopeful students deserve something better. The Norwegian school is in a crisis-like situation, where the professional quality of the entire training course is put to a serious test. The public school system may be inclusive for some, but not for all, and at least it has not been possible to solve the skills challenges in an international context. Both national and international surveys show that despite being at the top of the world in both teacher density and resource use per country, Norway remains at the top of the world. students, are professionally far back both in relation to other countries and in relation to the quality of training nationally ten years ago. I have to hurry to say that there is a lot of good competence among teachers in Norwegian school. The problem is that the education system places strong restrictions on their activities so that they do not have adequate educational freedom. The system must be reorganised to facilitate a greater degree of freedom but, of course, under the responsibility of quality control and national tests, irrespective of who owns the educational institution. In Sweden, studies show that the provision of free school helps to increase the quality of public education. Yes, the President was right – to increase the quality of public education. The reason is that there will be competition, which makes public schools think new and creative to raise the learning outcomes of their own schools. In other words, it is an advantage for public schools to establish fresh schools. This is without prejudice to the Ministry of Proposition at all. The law adopted today will hit hard, including Norway’s obligations under the Convention on Human Rights. The right to set up private alternatives for religious or pedagogical reasons is fully suspended for up to two years. It is problematic for a country that usually holds the human rights tab high. As a representative in Norway's legislative assembly, I feel a little ill at heart when I see what decisions are being taken here today. The Progress Party believes that this bill is a major challenge for trust between public authorities and private citizens and private interests. It's because of a number of relationships. Among other things, the Ministry of Education instructed the Directorate of Education and the NOKUT to stop working on applications for treatment under the law of free school. The Ministry thus chose to set aside a law passed by the Stortinget. It is not part of the Government’s power as executive to set aside an adopted law. In our opinion, this is a political and perhaps legal violation by the Government. It has been raised beyond any doubt that it is the Stortinge that treats and adopts laws, and it is the Storinge that changes these laws. The fact that a choice changes the composition of a magnification does not change the content of the law, nor does the government's obligation to enforce the law. It would have taken place if it had been the case that all the laws of the Storting have been passed for a majority period, were disregarded after the election, only because another majority was given government power. In the interests of the fundamental democratic principles, the existing government should remain in favour of placing the legislative authority of the Stortinge on this test. Paragraph 97 of the Constitution clearly prohibits the giving of laws retroactively. After several years of legal interpretations and several Supreme Court judgments, the provision has enough been diluted to apply retroactive law that would seem clearly unfair or unfair. The terms ‘clearly unfair’ or ‘unfair’ are value-enhanced terms which will be attributed to different meanings of different persons. So will also be the case in political handling of issues like this we are dealing with today, as much as the court will have to interpret the degree of unfairness or injustice. At least there is no doubt that the 40 boarding schools that experience the withdrawal of their approvals experience this as clearly unfair and unfair. The problem is that there is likely to be some doubt as to whether the courts will conclude in the same way, based on very strict case-law. The Progress Party believes that the interpretation process § 97 of the Basic Law has been subjected to has contributed to evading the primary purpose of the provision, which in our opinion was to protect citizens from public abuse. We believe that it is a clearly unfair and unfair law that is now giving retroactive effect to the 40 schools that lose their approval. In our opinion, the size limits its freedom of action when laws are passed. Freedom of action is restricted by the fact that citizens or private legal entities granted rights by law do not risk losing this right by a later law. Law shall only take effect from the date of entry into force of the act. Public approvals granted in a lawful manner should therefore not be lost because of a change in the composition of the Storting. We will consider coming back to this by a concrete clarification of what the Storting believes the Basic Law § 97 should have, at a later stage.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22-lower.ana.ud1313e170	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22-lower.ana.ud1313e173	It is probably symptomatic of the lawyer Andersen's handling of what are professional judgements, that he takes care of and teaches the Department of Justice's law department. It is also representative of his handling of technical facts in other areas of this matter. With regard to Sweden’s experience, he draws out one point – one point – that can be positive, while the rest of the report, if he had taken the time to read it, shows that colleges have had a quite unambiguously segregated effect and helped to reinforce social differences. When he produces facts and professionally thoughtful analyses, he should bring the whole and full truth. But in Sweden they have free private schools anyway. There's a ban on taking school money. My question to the representative Anundsen is: do you want a ban on school money in private schools in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22-lower.ana.ud1313e180	Just to correct, it's Anundsen that's the name. Generally speaking, one should be skeptical about using Huitfeldt as a truth witness. The report she thinks I'm referring to is not one report. I refer to three different reports from Sweden. I would think that Huitfeldt's representative could be interested in reading those reports, and she could get the links to the public pages where she finds this information, from me afterwards. The Progress Party does not want a ban on school money.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22-lower.ana.ud1313e189	The party claims that the school freeze threatens the vocational schools and, in particular, education in the health and social field. This is wrong. The party of progress turns the case upside down. Just the professional offers would be threatened if we had accepted the uncontrolled growth of private schools. Therefore, the Party of Advances misinformed the suspension when, together with other parties, they claim that the freezing law means ‘a clear weakening of the possibility that Norway will be able to provide sufficient qualified health and social professionals when the vocational schools are frozen’. The party to the progress has obviously not received the following: the freezing proposal does not affect education in care and health, the elderly and health. At least the party must be able to answer directly and specifically the following questions: What vocational schools and what provision in the health and social field will be affected by the temporary law?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22-lower.ana.ud1313e198	I don't have the list of myself here. We had the same discussion in the past, and so it's like there's a number of government colleges that will suffer from the post-secondary post-secondary post-secondary post-secondary post-secondary post-secondary post-secondary post-secondary post-secondary post-secondary post-secondary post-secondary post-secondary post-secondary post-secondary post-secondary post-secondary post-secondary post-secondary post-secondary post-secondary post-secondary post-secondary post-secondary post-secondary post-secondary post-secondary. What is the main challenge here is that the government's policy is gender discriminatory, because when you stop funding health and social education while at the same time funding technical vocational schools, it is clearly gender discriminatory. It is surprising that the Socialist Left Party can stand for such a kind of policy in relation to a very important profession. In terms of capacity utilisation for the future, we'll see if it's the representative Lena Jensen or the Progress Party who gets the right to be adequately trained with health professionals.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22-lower.ana.ud1313e205	I note that the Progress Party is aware that today's government wants to change the freshman promise. I would like to say that there would have been much more awareness-raising if not the Labour Party, SV and the Center Party followed up a law that they originally strongly opposed, and which these three parties clearly indicated that they wanted to work to change. Now we have an important aspect of the Progress Party's policy. It's on the one hand 100 pst. School funding, but the question is: Will they at the same time be banned from school money, or should there be a check from individual parents? This would enhance the differences in the progression part of the school system. How far should the choice really go? What kind of communities in Norway are there to choose school?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22-lower.ana.ud1313e212	There must be an obvious misunderstanding if you think that I have expressed from this pulpit that it was spectacular that the government would change the law. I didn't say that. We believe that the procedure chosen by the Government is alarming. We believe it is alarming that the government has withdrawn the approval of 40 approved fresh oils. The challenge is in conflict with what Mr. Meltveit Kleppa is saying. This wasn't the theme of the campaign at all. There was no one who could at any time predict that the sitting government would withdraw legal approvals, and no one was aware in the election campaign that this government would adopt a law that had retroactive effect for a number of private institutions in Norway. That's what I and the Progress Party think is extremely eye-catching, and it was nice to have the opportunity to clarify it once more.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22-lower.ana.ud1313e217	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22-lower.ana.ud1313e220	I record that the representative Anniken Huitfeldt does not really want to talk about what is the topic of today's debate, namely the temporary law on free school, but I do. On 13 December last year, I got a phone call from NRK at 1 p.m. 06.30. The reporter at the other end could tell that Council of State Djupedal had now put a stop to that approx. 40 approved health schools could be started and none of the applications submitted by the Education Directorate would be dealt with. The plural government said before the election that it should be humble and listening. What it does to colleges, it reminds us of majority rule. Øystein Djupedal has received a lot of criticism for this maneuver, but could have got more critical questions. I challenge the Council of State Djupedal to justify its policy with more than prejudices and slogans. The fact that public schools are and become most important in the Norwegian education system is not new. It has been a fixed component of the free school debate throughout all years. Why, then, are the claims that everyone else will dismantle the public school, again and again? Could it be because the high school opponents have let themselves be convinced of their own arguments and actually believe that fresh schools represent a serious threat to public school? Maybe they believe in the arguments Anniken Huitfeldt put forward, that the establishment of school places is at the Community's expense? One student can only go one place at a time and thus does not take money from the public school. This may explain why the Minister of Knowledge and the Government have taken such a dramatic step as to set aside post-secondary school approvals adopted in accordance with the applicable law. As far as the State Council has been concerned, the Minister of Knowledge has spent much more time stopping 40 approved health schools than improving the quality of public schools. It is a widespread misunderstanding that all students in Norway attend one major school. The Community, on the contrary, consists of many small communities, both private and public. Everyone is part of the big community, sail if they choose or are different from us. Some people want a more diverse society and community than the municipality and politicians can give them. There should be a cross-referencing of ideas for the government parties that Norway is a country with very few incubators, but still with very large differences between students. Public schools don't get any better from saying no to fresh schools. If it is the case that the search for high-level fresh-schools is due to the fact that parents and students do not trust the quality of public schools, it is said to be no to the establishment of private schools and fresh-schools, something like crushing the thermometer when the patient has a fever. The patient is still ill, and the only thing that has been achieved is to destroy the instruments that could measure the symptoms. I believe that there is particularly one feature that has been evident in the debate: the government parties are the ones that show the greatest distrust of public schools. They seem to think that as soon as parents and students get the opportunity to get away from public school, they do it, and they do it in a bunch. The point isn't if there are ten or a thousand students in fresh schools. The point is that there should be alternatives for those students and parents who want to choose differently. The point is that transparency and exchange of experience between public schools and in-service schools lead to a better quality of education for all students. But the Minister of Knowledge has not just stopped 40 approved schools. He has also, through instructions to the Education Directorate, stopped any treatment of applications for the establishment of fresh oils. I know that the Council of State does not like to hear it, but the reality is that he has put the current Norwegian law out of force without bothering to wait for the Stortinges to deal with the matter. No one contests the majority's right to adopt the laws they wish. But it should be a democratic minimum goal to follow the rules of the game. There is no disagreement that Norway is obliged by international agreements to accept that parents can choose school services for their children other than public schools. The Ministry interprets the wording of the Convention in such a way that it does not oblige the State to contribute financially to the operation of fresh oils. But here we are at a significant point. Government and government parties choose to put themselves on an interpretation which may be in agreement with the wording of the Convention, but not with its spirit. To follow the narrow interpretation of red-green, the right to choose alternative education for their children becomes a right for the prosperous in society, while parental rights become only an empty formality for all other parents. It has always been so that in the society of well-filled wallets they have been able to choose in all areas. As long as we like. not having free choice of schools between public schools in municipalities and counties, parents with good advice have always had the opportunity to move with the children to the school community where they want them to go. All other parents must find themselves sending their children to a secondary school, if for various reasons they would like to choose another school. And such an attitude to the possibility of choosing differently most often also applies in the post-secondary school case. Parents with a good economy can send their children to a clean private school that does not receive an ear in state aid and that takes 100 pst. parental payment. But since this is a freedom of choice for the few, we submitted a law where all the fresh schools, including those without religious and pedagogical alternatives, could get approval and 85 pst. State aid whose strict quality requirements were met. The ability to choose should be the same for everyone. This possibility now stops the government effectively, and freedom of choice is still reserved for parents with good finances or with religious or pedagogical objections to public school. This is the socialist definition of freedom of choice: freedom for the rich. The red-green extend so far that they can accept that parents can choose offers that the red-green likes. Right now, religious and pedagogical alternatives are popular and accepted. The rest of us in the hall want to fill our international commitments with content, that is. that we make freedom of choice real for all parents, no matter what reason they have for their choice. The only condition for being approved with the right to state aid should be as it is in today's law, that the school meets strict requirements for the quality of education. The Minister of Knowledge and the Government parties defend both the intervention with retroactive force against the 40 schools and the message to stop all treatment of post-secondary school applications, on the grounds that this intervention is consistent with what the three government parties expressed during the election campaign. It is at best a truth with great modifications, since there was no human being given to guess that one would set aside a applicable law and without further delay withdraw already granted approvals. But to the extent that there were signs that the three parties would do something to restrict the new law of free school, it was that the three parties favoured schools that were life-seeking or educational alternatives to public school. It is no wonder that the representatives of these schools were a little surprised by the government's freezing policy when they discovered that they too were hit, and that all the efforts and planning were in vain. The freezing decision shall take effect, inter alia: these already approved schools: Spin Off Dance Institute, Kvam Christian School, New School in Bergen, Stone Schools and Urtehagen School. None of these schools could reasonably be expected to have understood or to have known that their approvals would be withdrawn. So for the first time a stone school has been denied start-up, despite its approval, and despite numerous assurances of the opposite from Jens Stoltenberg. That this policy has major consequences for many schools, the government obviously has not thought about at all. It shows the long range of problems and questions raised during the examination of this case. The answers from the Council of State are not suitable for convincing. The only thing we've been convinced of is that the Government is determined to act as doctrinal as possible. Here, no deviations from the freezing line are to be accepted, other than the limited possibility of setting up branch schools – which is, in other words, to sue the pill a bit for the Centre Party. I'm very happy that we overtime got a solution for schools for munitions in Kenya and Ethiopia, but there's still enough trouble to get rid of. Let me just mention briefly: §6A schools, art schools and international schools. Just after this freezing decision came from the Government, the Prime Minister spoke in his New Year’s speech about the ‘Norwegian dream’. For some it was starting a high school. Now 40 such dreams are set in ruins, and more are going to be. The dreams were illegal. It's the government that's going to decide which dreams are going to come true. Instead, the government should let go of all good forces. Together, we should counter a school system that leads to and accentuates major social differences between students. The greatest differences exist, Øystein Djupedal, in public school, among others. because it is not diverse enough. Therefore, Øystein Djupedal should now concentrate its efforts on the 96-98 pst. by public school students, rather than combating a small number of enthusiasts and students who want or need an alternative school. Rather, let them contribute to the creation of the good society, and let them contribute to the realization of the Norwegian dream!
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22-lower.ana.ud1313e256	The President will recall that the Council of State is to be addressed with the title – Council of State Øystein Djupedal, or Council of State Djupedal. The time is now at 10:00 p.m., which means that the scheduled time for the meeting is near. The President will propose that the meeting continue until the current map has been completed – and it is deemed to have been adopted. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22-lower.ana.ud1313e264	Last summer the directorate and Kristin Klemet Kvam Christian School approved. Here is literature, music, drama, role playing, the Internet, dance, film, and TV that violates the Bible’s values, unacceptable in teaching. The representative Ine Marie Eriksen mentioned in the introduction also this school as a school it was sadly hit. Is this what the Right calls diversity? Where does the boundary between diversity and uniformity go?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22-lower.ana.ud1313e271	Kvam Christian School was approved by the Education Directorate under the same disciplines as all other schools that have been approved. So it was not the Council of State Kristin Clemet who set and decided that school should be approved. Having said that, I would like to mention that Anna Ljunggren was also present at the hearings we had in connection with the law on free school. There, the Workers' Party had what I would call a pretty rough drive towards all schools that have some kind of religious – and especially Christian – anchoring. There it was suggested that all of the schools initially break Norwegian laws, that they initially have an exclusive view of women and a particularly sparse view of human beings. The reality is – the representative Anna Ljunggren knows very well – that it is the directorate, under strict professional criteria, much more stringent than under the old private school law, where it held to be a religious alternative and otherwise no educational quality requirements were imposed, they accepted the schools. So it happened under the new law, which imposes much stricter standards on professional quality than was the case under the old private school law, to which the representative Ljunggren and her party want to return.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22-lower.ana.ud1313e278	The right considers that the Government tested important administrative principles through the decision to stop the uncontrolled growth of private schools. Kristin Clemet chose to overdo his own professional body, the Directorate of Education, which approved a significant number of lower school places. They warned against what Kristin Clemet did, and this happened after school and after it became clear that the previous government lost the election. In the last three weeks before she left, Clement accepted 5,000 new school places. This happened at the same time as the Workers' Party and the Center put forward and negotiated a government statement at Soria Moria. The Djupedal Council of State was definitely on a safe footing when in the middle of December he openly and publicly followed up what the three parties went to elections and what the new majority was about. How can Right cry over what they call a departmental mandate, i.e. a notice of freezing pending the Storting, when the Right so clearly opposed the will of the people after they had lost the election?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22-lower.ana.ud1313e284	This was almost a festive line. Firstly, there is no uncontrolled growth in the number of approved post-secondary places. What was the big crop was the applications that had not yet been dealt with. Paragraph 2: State Council Clement was the Board of Appeal for those who had appealed against the decision to reject it. The Directorate and the lawyers of the Department gave a clear advice that there was no legal evidence to reject the applications. That's why State Council Clement did what she did. But then it's amazing, by the Soria Moria Declaration, and not least 13 December last year, that the Djupedal State Council is putting the bomb down not only for those who got their complaint handled by Clmet State Council, he's putting the bomb down for everyone who had been approved – the 40 schools, which include stone schools, the Nyskolan in Bergen, the Urtehagen School and the Spin Off Dance Institute. It includes all the schools you explicitly said you wouldn't hit, and that's what makes this freezing decision especially relative to Norwegian law and not least Norwegian administrative practices.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22-lower.ana.ud1313e291	I argued that the representative Eriksen has also found that there are actually schools that think the freezing decision was good. There are many municipalities and county councils that are happy with the decision being made today. I have two questions for Eriksen. I expect her to respond to them, unlike the Progress Party, which does not respond to questions, I have registered today. The one thing is, how can she say that it is professionally defenceworthy to go in after the big shot, while the government is about to go off, and approve over 4,000 new places – against the directorate? The second is, how far does Right go its freedom of choice? Does Right's freedom of choice apply to parents who want a public school for their children? Does the freedom of choice apply only to the largest communities in this country?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22-lower.ana.ud1313e300	The representative Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa claims that there are several schools that believe that the freezing decision was good. There are at least none of the 40 schools that were hit, which believe that that decision was good, rather the opposite. So to the questions. Was it professionally sound? Well, State Council Clement could have made another choice. She could have put back all the applications and all the appeals to the Council of State Djupedal, and he must have made the exact same assessment that the Clemet Council made. So to the second question, if we're for freedom of choice in public school. There's a very interesting question seen in the light of the matter we've just dealt with in Stortinget, about free choice of school at public school. There, the Right Party and the Advance Party together with the Left Party say yes to freedom of choice between public schools. There are government parties, including the Center Party, against the fire and bram. So they do not want freedom of choice in public schools, and they do not want freedom of choice between public schools and health schools. So what's left of the freedom of choice, other than that it applies to rich people who can afford to pay a private school place that doesn't get state aid, it's for me to wonder about.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22-lower.ana.ud1313e309	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22-lower.ana.ud1313e312	Today, the red-green majority in the United Kingdom is once again taking an important step on social development by adopting a freeze in the establishment of about 22,000 private schools, which the former government approved just before it left. The red-green majority does what we promised. We'll bet at public school. The freezer will continue until we have a new private school law in place. About 5,000 of these places were approved by Kristin Clemet after she had lost her election, and after all the professional bodies had opposed it. Had we not taken hold now and stopped the right-hand side bet in private schools, there would be an increase in private and secondary schools of about 150 pst. The vast majority of these were schools of the kind of cheap public schools in the centre of the largest cities and agglomerations. This would lead to the setting up of many schools in the districts. It would in many places ruin the school structure, and it would have major consequences for the housing pattern and the goal of equal rights and opportunities for education wherever you live. This would lead to the massive closure of key district centres of excellence and innovation. This would lead to massive closures of important but cost-intensive professional lines around our country. For the financing of the establishment that the bourgeois government pressed on municipalities and county municipalities against their will, it was the county municipalities that had to cover. So the students' freedom of choice would actually be reduced, and diversity would be reduced if we hadn't. In my article I want to consistently call the so-called boarding schools private schools, because I want us to call a spade a spade. The majority of Stortinget today stops publicly paid private schools. We promised it in the election campaign, and now we're doing it. The decision in Stortinget today cannot surprise anyone. We just keep what we promise. We're going to bet in the public common school and we're going to stop the release of private schools. For the red-green majority, spending on the public common school is important in order to ensure our children a good and safe growth. We live in an international and complicated world. Our children have never needed greater understanding, tolerance, cohesion and inclusion. Instead of privatisation and increased differences, we want children and young people with different backgrounds to meet in the same classroom. Knowledge and creativity are better developed in a good common school. The school as a common meeting place is essential for integration. One cannot read to understanding, tolerance and security. Such learning must take place through experience, experiences and encounters with others. In today's world, this is a competence that is important and necessary to master life. It gets one through building a common school and a platform where our children meet equality, inequality, conflict and cooperation. We're more equal to each other than we are different. So this advantage we've created through our welfare state has discovered the rest of the world. They now regard the Nordic welfare model as a major competitive advantage that creates innovation and balances differences. They see a society in which the public common school is the very pillar. As a result, Norway is ranked as one of the world’s most innovative countries. Countries that can lead a much more liberal practice of private schools than us can tell about increased segregation and greater social differences. The Swedish have such negative experience that they cannot understand that anyone wants to repeat this experiment in Norway. A large-scale establishment of private schools funded by the public will lead to a school that does not give our children the chance that they all deserve. We need a school that's capable of helping each child get the help and the new challenges they need to deliver the maximum. By putting a temporary stop to the establishment of private schools, the Stortinget is taking hold again today on school development and social development. I want to invite the Christian People's Party and the Left in a broad compromise next year on a new private school law. Private schools that have been approved and have already started will not be affected by this freezing decision. None of the students who attend private schools today will be affected. Today's decision in Stortinget will lead to more freedom of choice and a better school for our students.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22-lower.ana.ud1313e329	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22-lower.ana.ud1313e332	Last December, I asked Huitfeldt's representative why the government parties are passing on the big difference between State aid to women's dominated health and care professions versus the man-dominated technical subjects. I was then given a somewhat hopeless response that the Progress Party should have done something about this in its budgetary settlement with Bondevik II. Now the red-greens have created further uncertainty around the vocational schools, and through their freezing decision they have pushed the problem out in time. My question is whether the representative Jensen is comfortable with the fact that this discrimination is now clearly going to continue at least until the school year 2008/2009.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22-lower.ana.ud1313e339	This government and the red-green majority are very concerned with the facilities of vocational schools and colleges. What we know is that the subject schools are very well funded, and that a number of subject schools, as the representative mentions, are discriminated against because of this. The government will come back to a new school law and have a review of how to set up the vocational schools. What I raised in my question to the Progress Party was the incorrect information that the Progress Party once again comes with regarding the freeze in the private school law. This will not affect the subject schools approved under NOCUT, either private or public. So the majority of today's adoptions will not affect established health and social schools.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22-lower.ana.ud1313e347	The representative Lena Jensen and her colleagues from the government parties have repeatedly pointed to the uniquely segregated effect of fresh oils, among others. in Sweden. The representative Jensen also says that Swedish negative experiences are nothing to be noticed. She then makes a very harsh judgment against her social-democratic and socialist colleagues in Stockholm and otherwise in Sweden. But don't do that. Sun-Joon Hwang, the head of the Swedish State School, has written an article to summarise what research has on segregation in Sweden. Sun-Joon Hwang emphasises that different research projects focusing on how freedom of choice affects the segregation of students do not provide unambiguous answers. I'm getting quite tired of the discussions and not least the assertions about the unequivocally large segregation effects that are lacking in evidence. How will the representative Jensen comment that the head of the Swedish State School also says that it is not possible to demonstrate any clear segregation effect?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22-lower.ana.ud1313e354	I would like to thank you for the question from the Right-Representative, for this can give me an opportunity to explain my contribution to Stortinget. One has experienced segregation. Differences are experienced. You can see that students with different social and cultural backgrounds choose different types of schools, and that it actually, even though it's 100 pst. funding in Sweden is that it is those with a high social, cultural and economic background who choose these schools. We see the same developments in Denmark, where overall political leadership is very concerned about development. There has been an increase in private schools, including: in Copenhagen, up to 50 pst. of immigrant children in some areas attend typical Muslim schools. This is a development we don't want.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22-lower.ana.ud1313e361	I think it's a fact that, in addition to stopping fresh schools, the government also wanted to take a grip on colleges and 6A schools. It's quite obvious. I'm not going to make it a topic of debate between the representative Jensen and me, because I understand the government wanted it. Then you can wonder why it wanted to, because it's a school category that there's not been a fight in the election campaign. There is one question I have not received an answer either through committee work or in this room before, and I will continue to ask until I get a clear answer. There are some schools in the category 6A vocational schools which only have public support through education support. We have tried from the opposition to express our wish that these should not lose the education support, but have never been joined by the government parties. You might think we're wrong. Okay, but then it has to be absolutely curative to say that they won't lose their education support. Furthermore, we ask that if there are regulations that are not in place, they should be handled in such a way that these schools do not lose their educational support. So I ask the representative Jensen: can she and SV guarantee that no one will lose the education support as a result of the lack of a statutory home or bad craftsmanship in relation to the law?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22-lower.ana.ud1313e368	I would like to stress that this law is by no means bad political craftsmanship. The issue raised by the representative from the Left is an important one, and we have discussed this in the vote. This is really no debate, because we're assuming that students who go to an established college will not lose their student support at all. This is a law for schools that are not established and have not yet been approved. It is important for us today to stress that this law will not affect students who are already attending a vocational school.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22-lower.ana.ud1313e377	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22-lower.ana.ud1313e380	The Christian People's Party emphasises that we should have a strong public school in Norway. Public schools are — and will remain — the dominant provision of education in primary education. At the same time, we see no contrast between working for a strong public school and ensuring parents' rights and the ability to choose another education for their children. This is a right that is not extracted from the air. It is rooted in the human rights that we, as a nation, have committed ourselves to. Therefore, human rights are not an unobligatory menu we can pick from in celebrations and on other appropriate occasions. The rights of parents are important because they protect minority rights. In December, the government announced an emergency law to stop a so-called free school slip in Norway – a law with retroactive effect and complete stop for new health schools for several years to come. In its eagerness to halt the development of fresh oils, the Government has taken very untraditional measures. The Christian People's Party responds in particular to the fact that the government's bill is in reality retroactive. Several of the schools that are currently receiving approval have invested considerable financial and human resources in the approval process. It is also a question of whether people at all can have confidence in legitimate decisions taken by government authorities. It is known as ‘no rule without exception’. In the government's bill, there's a tighter rule of exception. It has the Government's intention to use it to protect so-called cross-border schools. The Christian People's Party would like to be involved in ensuring that the schools in Norway provide the best possible protection. We also understand the need for exceptions when it is wrong to adopt this law. However, what is both incomprehensible and unreasonable is that the Government does not grant the same exception to religious schools and schools with alternative pedagogy. Those were the schools that the red-greens went in to screen both before, during and after the election campaign. The Soria Moria Declaration states that the Government will ‘tighten the prevalence of private schools which do not constitute a religious or pedagogical alternative’. So they're doing the exact opposite of what they're saying. It should have meant that the exception should have been extended to religious schools and schools with alternative pedagogy. Instead, the Government chooses to put its own promises and parental rights on hold for at least two years. Unfortunately, it seems that this law is very urgent and has many unintended consequences. The government's desire to stop some schools has turned very negative for a large range of other schools. This applies, inter alia, to: for the so-called 6A schools — schools with a long school history in Norway and carrying out important social tasks. The bill targets schools, among others: by losing the right to training aid in the State Loan Fund. The changes in the law would also initially have very unfortunate consequences for several foreign schools. The Norwegian schools in Kenya and Ethiopia have, over a number of years, approved probationary schemes with decentralised education for small school students and cooperation with international high school students. This teaching has enabled one to receive good education locally rather than to use schoolwork. Applications for extension would have been examined during the spring, but would have been rejected with the Government’s proposal. The Christian People's Party is pleased that the government parties have been present at this point and stated in the remarks that these attempts should continue. Here we might be able to talk about a light point in the high school darkness. We can't get past the fact that there is a special law Stortinget adopts today. The outcome of Storting's treatment could have been different, and one could at least receive the hand that was directed out of the colleges. At the open committee hearing, a compromise proposal was presented which would have cut the number of seats, from 22 000 to 5000 seats. But the government parties haven't been to the rich. They still talk about 22,000 places as if nothing had happened. The offer from the colleges meant a radical reduction, and I haven't actually seen my husband handshake. It surprises me that the government parties did not choose to meet them. It would have calmed down and prevented the gross violation of the parental right that we are witnessing today.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22-lower.ana.ud1313e402	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22-lower.ana.ud1313e405	I have a question for the representative Lånke – it’s simple: Does the Christian People’s Party want to be involved and go up some clearer boundaries as to private and public schools? I think we agree that we want entries of alternative schools, as a supplement to the public. The representative has, in his reply earlier this evening, and now in the post, mentioned what was said at the hearing, with his outstretched hand. What was said about them was that there was too much coincidence and a not proper concentration in several cities. That was one of the reasons why they came with the extended hand. Therefore, I am somewhat uncertain about where the Christian People's Party stands in this matter. On the one hand, they defend today's law, and on the other hand, the Christian People's Party has long traditions to defend the public school. Will the Christian People's Party participate in clarifying the law?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22-lower.ana.ud1313e414	Let me first say that the Christian People's Party is behind the law that exists today, and according to which these approvals are given – so that's what they say. Today we do not discuss the future. Today, we are trying to turn the debate and perspective away from what is reality and reality, the freezing law, which is now under consideration. You try to think about other things, instead of talking about the nucleus, which is that you put a line over 40 approvals that are given after a legitimate decision in this house. And then you talk about the future. For us it's completely absurd to be a part of it. Today, we are discussing the freezing law – the law adopted to stop the establishment of new fresh oils. We want to defend the parental right. We want to defend these schools that have now been tricked and that have invested a lot of resources to establish themselves. Then all of a sudden they get the message: No, what the Storting decided, didn't apply! That is what we are discussing, not the future. Now let's finish, and we'll get back to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22-lower.ana.ud1313e423	Unfortunately, the Christian People's Party has ended up in a company they do not belong to. This freezing law was necessary to prevent the approval of 20,000 new private school places, or almost a doubling in relation to the current level. In higher education alone, growth could be about 150 pst. This large number is not about life-vision schools and educational options, but it is about a development that will obviously make it difficult to create a good public common school. My challenge to the Christian People's Party is: Why not also contribute to a development in which we create a good, diverse and varied common school as a strategy, instead of turning to the privatisation of the right?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22-lower.ana.ud1313e433	Yes, once again we experience the same thing as in the previous line. This is basically a blue copy – at least in fact – of the previous line. I feel that I am again trying to talk about something other than what is happening today. You keep talking about 20,000 more places. We know it's been a discussion. In an open consultation, a proposal, an extended hand, from 40 fresh oils was submitted. They said you could go down to 5,000 places. Imagine if you had picked up that glove, went into a compromise and said that this law does not apply – then you would have avoided adopting a law with retroactive effect, broken good governance and a lot of doubt about where you stand. In addition, it has been said in the election campaign and the Soria Moria Declaration that schools should be protected on a religious and pedagogical basis. And then you do the exact opposite. You're watching cross-country schools -- we think that's okay. But you forget that you have said that you must also protect the others. That's what this is about, and then we shouldn't talk away from the reality. We're going to get back to another law. We know that there is a majority to change the policy in Norway. We've never disputed that. Then we'll see.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22-lower.ana.ud1313e442	I hope the representative Lånk will answer my two questions. The one thing is quite simple: Does the representative Lånke believe that the right to choose education for his own children was meant to be a hub for privatization, or was it meant as a protection against the regime that benefits the school sentence of uniformity at the cost of ethnic want and for the dissemination of values that we cannot join today? Question no. 2: The Central Party and the Christian People's Party have been united about the values of the old private sphere. What are the changes that have occurred that make the Christian People's Party now want to open up to a larger set of private bullets that do not build on a religious alternative or a pedagogical alternative?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22-lower.ana.ud1313e449	I am happy to say that I actually hope that the Center Party can come up with different ideas regarding the cooperation on central values, for example. the post-secondary schools. We've been together in governments, we've been together in the Bondevik I government, and I know that the Center Party is occupied with the colleges, they're occupied with the fresh schools on a religious basis and on a pedagogical basis. We also know that we have now been in different governments. But I have to say that I'm a little disappointed that the Center Party has left these values, that the Center Party is also being lured into a path where laws are passed retrospectively and administrative law is set aside, and is just stopping the establishment of schools on a basis for which the Center Party has been a hot champion. It disappoints me. I hope that we can put this behind us, that we can get back together, and that we can agree on a good law, if any, in the future. I'll be in on that. But now we are going to talk about that issue today, namely the freezing law. And it's totally unsustainable.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22-lower.ana.ud1313e456	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22-lower.ana.ud1313e459	The Central Party's educational spokeswoman, Inger S. Enger, should have stood here now, but she's a member of the Laging. The centre party wants a good public school with room for everyone, regardless of social dividers, functional level, ethnic background and direction of trust. We support Kjell Bondevik's private school law every year. In respect for parents' right to choose training, we thought it was right as a supplement to the public school to give rooms for schools based on life views or alternative pedagogy. When the Bondevik II government changed the private sphere into the law on fresh ular with effect from 1 October 2003, we reported passports. We couldn't stand behind a law where the requirement for the very purpose of the laws was removed. We weren't surprised that the Progress Party or the Right was for such a change, but we didn't recognize our friends in the center. The debate on this new law revealed scepticism far into the Christian People's Party's own ranks. The Central Party is very pleased that the Soria Moria Declaration announces a review of private school legislation and support schemes to streamline the spread of private schools that do not constitute a religious or educational alternative to the public school. We are pleased to note that the Minister of Knowledge is all about this work and that he invites the Christian People's Party and the Left to a constructive dialogue. We think it's good for the school, for the students, for the parents and for the Norwegian community that there is now a broad majority for the new promise. The main issue today is whether a temporary law is necessary. The answer to that is from our side, yes. It's the legacy of the Bondevik II government, it's the increase in the number of approved student places according to new law, which makes it necessary. And it is particularly alarming and surprising, and also provocative, that the State Council, after the collapse election, when the government itself ordered her to leave the department, tried the Education Directorate and approved over 4,000 new places. Forty squats are gonna happen. In spite of that, there are a lot of hearing aids that are in common with the Government. An additional 100 applications must be expected. We don't know the number of people that could happen anytime soon. I am overconfident that the Minister of Knowledge has carefully assessed what exemptions he could make from a temporary law. The center party had as its starting point to check the possibilities of running schools that had been granted permission, which had not started up, but which would also get accepted according to the laws, as we imagine it will be. We quickly registered that not only the Government's own legal advisers, but also e.g. The League of Christian Colleges recommended non-discrimination and recommended such a solution. We're emphasising that it's a temporary law. The decision happens to a few. However, it is important to avoid at least breaking up established geographic school patterns in many counties. A person can make an exception in some circumstances. The cross-sectional spheres are particularly prominent. It is very important that the comments from the majority of people who are involved in nightclubs are followed up, and that the Directorate of Education quickly deals with the applications that may be made in this area. Then I would like to end by stressing that the Norwegian schools in Ethiopia and Kenya no are continuing their experimental activity with decentralised education in the small school and also with their cooperation with the International School of Youth Schools. It's good that it has our opening in the committee to listen to special appeals that have come.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22-lower.ana.ud1313e478	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22-lower.ana.ud1313e481	With the feedback we have received from the presentation of the bill, I have to say that the representative Meltveit Kleppa is a little confused when she says that the government has listened, because they have listened to perhaps a lot of the objections that have come. The rest they have chosen to interrogate. The central party tends to try to give the impression that they are a people's party and that they want to listen to the voice of the people. That's good. A study conducted by the Analysis House shows that 71 pst. of those asked, it is true that students and parents should be able to choose school services other than those of the public, if they so wish. The same study shows that 73 pst. by the Centre Party's own constituencies believe that withdrawal of the approvals granted is wrong. Has the Central Party now abandoned its popular party viewpoint? Have they stopped listening to the people and their own voters?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22-lower.ana.ud1313e488	Over time, I have followed the Progress Party's many positions on different issues in Stortinget. I have registered that the Progress Party very often changes its position from one programme to another. They also change positions in this room from year to year within the same growing period. In the Central Party, we emphasize that the program we're going to vote on, the program that we're asking our voters to decide on, we're also going after, as far as we can. Therefore, there is no one who voted in favour of the Center Party that should be in doubt that we wished to change the freshly promised so that there was still room for schools with alternative pedagogy or life-vision schools. We were deeply disunityed in the fresh air that was signed in the previous period, and we're going to work to change it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22-lower.ana.ud1313e495	I have two questions for the representative Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa. The first question is: if this government was genuinely concerned about protecting religious schools and schools with educational options — such as: Fet private elementary school, Kvam Kristine Skule, Nyskolen i Bergen, Steinerskoler – why could not the law then only have had effect for secondary schools? Question 2: How will the representative Meltveit Kleppa define the primary school? Is the representative in agreement with the Landslag för nærmiljøskolan, formerly LUFS, that if you want to define branch schools as you do in a normal definition, then most of them are branch schools in Oslo?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22-lower.ana.ud1313e504	To the question of a temporary law, a freezing law, only applies to secondary schools: our starting point is the advice given on non-discrimination. And the same advice has also been given by e.g. The Federation of Christian Free Schools, KFF. There is broad agreement that this law should apply to all those who have applied for it. When it comes to crossbows, I thought it was a very good definition written by the multiple in the setting where it is said: «in the case of primary schools, the Ministry shall mean a local school which parents wish to maintain or establish when the public school is closed or centralised or when a secondary school is laid down. [[...]] The majority indicate that this applies both to L97-following schools and to schools providing a pedagogical or religious alternative.’ Then it will be up to the Education Directorate to carry out the final examination of such applications.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22-lower.ana.ud1313e516	I noticed that the representative Meltveit Kleppa pointed out that there could be no doubt as to what the party's voters were waiting for in this area when they voted in favour of the Center Party. Let's see what the Center Party said before the election, in relation to what they're doing now. The representative, Rune J. Kijlaaen, spoke to the newspaper Dagsnewen on 28 June about fresh oils which have already been approved: ‘These schools have applied for and received recognition. So we could be the same or not, but now they're right over here. Then we can't start messing with the grants, these schools have to be treated like everyone else." The representative Meltveit Kleppa himself went out in the day immediately after the election – the next day, about – and said: ‘Sp will be the guarantor of the boarding schools.’ And she went almost in the throat of Trond Giske, who had said that the new government would change the law of free school and stop the state aid to private schools that were already approved. She says, ‘I’m not afraid to say that I think Trond Giske has shown an alarming lack of both knowledge and understanding of what these schools stand for and what they mean.’ What's happened to the Center Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22-lower.ana.ud1313e539	I hope it doesn't feel like I'm getting used to people's throats. Both the caste of me and the caste of Rune J. Skjillaa are involved and stress that we have a sincere commitment to running schools based on alternative pedagogics and schools based on life views. The Christian People's Party knows very well that here for the first time it came for the day one more then unknown number of student places that were approved both before and after the election. In addition, it has been extensive, I stress extensive, legal assessments of how one could handle these different applications, and what one should do to stop it one must call the uncontrolled growth that had occurred in a very short time. And so the Council was uniform from government to KFF: non-discrimination.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22-lower.ana.ud1313e548	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22-lower.ana.ud1313e551	Before I start my post, I would like to say that the last replication must be a clear and clear signal that when three parties negotiate until a compromise, there are some who lose. But what surprises me is why you have to lose so thoroughly. I'm surprised that you can't keep what you've said before the election, that you're protecting schools according to religious and pedagogical principles. When I go to the matter, I will begin by stating that it is the public school that is central to the left. We have responded to this matter. We knew that another government had a different policy, but we react, among other things. by stopping schools that have been formally approved, and then in practice giving a retrospective effect. This has resulted in a legal professional assessment. I'm not going to comment on that, I'm going to take note of it. But the political wisdom in that is not to be taken for granted, because it means in practice that you are doing the exact opposite of what you have said before, among other things. the representative now quoted by Højbrätten. Then what happens that I have to admit comes as a complete surprise to us sitting on the trade committee. We get the impression that the freezing law for security reasons seems to hit other schools that you don't understand why it's going to hit at all, unless you're government council and you have a lack of money, or some reason. We just don't understand why the 6A schools and the colleges are going to be hit, we don't understand it. Any attempt to clean this up – and we get a lot of heavy input into it – is rejected, in that it is quite clear and conscious that the 6A schools and the colleges will be hit. They must be included in the freezer for reasons relating to reasons. But it was at least a school battle that no one before the election intended to hit at all. So it looks at a point that's even more incomprehensible, and that we can't get any clarity on either. Then the state council gets the chance to clean it up. So we're actually getting knowledge. We have to trust people in the field who say that art and cultural schools that now exist beyond what we call those colleges that have been in dispute, today only have educational support. Because of the regulations given after previous proceedings in the Stortinget, they risk losing training aid. The majority say that everyone has to be allowed to have loans and scholarships, as the law says that they should be allowed to have when they're colleges and colleges. When we interpret it in such a way that it means that no one loses education aid, and when we conclude that no one should definitely get into the problem of losing education aid while issues are either frozen or waiting for treatment, we do not get a clear answer to that in the opposition. Then I'm going to live with the representatives of the largest and second largest government party not being able to answer that, but I'm going to ask the council to clear it up. If it were to be – to say it that way – so that the undersigned and others have made a mistake at this point, then it must be quite straightforward to state that no one should lose education support. It's precisely because of these experiences that we're left with a deep wonder that you had so much speed, so much speed, to stop this, that you let the guillotine fall as wide and brutal as you did. I agree with the representative Lånke that it is common in Norway when something comes to mind, especially in a debate about something that might be retroactive, that when someone comes up with a recording, like the colleges did, where they said that here we have so many places, we draw, we draw out most of what is disputed, we come back with a proposal of 5,000 places, let's now it is in relation to the procedure, then at least we can create a kind of calm. It can't be said in any way to be disturbing. What happens then is you reject it blank. When a battle is at its head, someone's willingness to try to find a consensus on something, a test on something, but then you reject it in a blank way. And it's this attitude that, along with everything else, along with the signals we get from people who, to their great wonder, perceives that they are affected by a law they should not be affected by, makes us write the notes we have. But it is quite possible for a government council to make contributions later today, to clean up at least the point of education support. I cannot in my wildest imagination imagine that someone would lose the education support as a result of the freeze proposal. Then it must be very simple for a government council that has instructions on statutory homes, to confirm from the pulpit of the Storting that that is not meant to happen, and neither will it happen. I'm simply challenging direct State Council Djupedal to clarify this point. When it comes to the debate on this matter, I feel that some of the things that provoke me and the Left are the ones that hit the 40 schools, where in practice one gets a retrospective effect.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22-lower.ana.ud1313e573	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22-lower.ana.ud1313e576	I am surprised that the former Minister of Justice has so little confidence in professional assessments. The Department of Law in the Ministry of Justice says that it finds it clear that it will not be contrary to the Constitution § 97: ‘We consider it appropriate to point out that one of these is not in the border area for what will be affected by the ban on return in Section 97 of the Basic Law.’ Is it true that the former Minister of Justice does not believe that the Department of Justice is taking good professional judgment?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22-lower.ana.ud1313e586	It is possible that Huitfeldt's representative does not want to hear what I am saying. Now I have just said from Stortingen's pulpit that I do not dispute a legal basis. I have given an assessment of what is politically wise, of what stands as political power, among other things. after the exchange of lines between the representative Meltveit Kleppa and the representative Højbräten. That's what I've been commenting on quite directly. So the representative should – when listening to what I am saying and quoting – stick to what I have just said. I don't doubt the Justice Department's law department. I don't think I've ever done that. But I doubt the political wisdom of the sitting government, including the rapporteur's wisdom, to ensure that something gets retrospective. That's my clear answer to this question.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22-lower.ana.ud1313e591	The left hand side is a party that has long traditions as a school party. The source of the poor and the children of the rich shall go into one and the same school. I think I hear this mantra that someone draws up as an example of the strong public sphere. For the old Social Liberal Left, the idea of a strong public Community pillar was important to prevent the reproduction of differences. Yes, until the inception of the previous government, Left was united with the Central Party in the contents of the old private sphere and warned against the creation of freshulars that did not constitute a pedagogical option or a life-view option. My question to the representative Dørum must be: what has changed in society that makes the Left now want more elements of private provision in the school?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22-lower.ana.ud1313e600	We're standing by the law we passed. However, today's debate is the subject of the freezing proposal. The freezing proposal is such that 40 authorised applications were stopped. Some of the applications are from schools such as: The party of the representative is strongly associated. There are pedagogical and religious schools that are being stopped. I will not return the question. The left is based on two main principles: a strong public school, and that we can withstand parental rights being exercised by having health schools next door. We believed that the law on free schooling we received had good quality improvements, among other things. by setting quality requirements. We insist that it was good and correct. But when the whole school history is drawn out, let me answer it. I sat in that government and was quite proud to break the reform pedagogical round in which one was almost not proud to know anything, and which led to a promise of knowledge that the sitting government parties were happy to get and continue. I am proud to have participated in the repatriation of the subject at school. I am proud that I have been involved in fighting for pedagogical diversity and in that diversity there is also room for fresh schools based on our conventions. It is possible to separate the paths between the left and the centre parts.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22-lower.ana.ud1313e609	Clearly, attack is the best defense here today. I wonder why the representative Dørum doesn't say anything about the private, commercial school actors like John Bauer and Sonans who applied for several thousand school places, and then they were granted. There's a lot of other things to talk about, but that theme keeps the representative from Dørum. It has always been repeated in the speech of the representative, Mr Dørum, with political wisdom. Then I would like to ask: Was it political wisdom that the previous government showed when they had lost the election and approved – contrary to the Professional Board of Education Directorate – several thousand school places and including very many private, commercial school places in high school?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22-lower.ana.ud1313e618	Clearly, the government that sits is not a business ministry until it does. A government is in charge of what is managing the law. That's what former State Council Clamet did. But what is the topic today, about attack, is that the representative fails to respond to the consequences of the freezing law. What is the consequence of the freezing law is that something is being given retrospectively after the existing law has established that these schools are approved. Here, there are also schools that government parties said they didn't want to hit. It's a fact. It's also a fact that you haven't managed to clear the way out of the way why you were going to hit schools running after 6A, that is, schools doing a broad social mission, and colleges. We never got a real answer as to why. It only happens when the freezing law comes. It's also the way I'm going to repeat, so I'm sure to get the answer, that no one is going to risk losing the education support. It is a complex matter, and I have chosen to deal with the freezing law. We'll have a debate on a future law of free school when it comes.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22-lower.ana.ud1313e630	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22-lower.ana.ud1313e633	The government parties opted for a new law on free school. That's the one we're dealing with in today's setting. Our central objective has been to strengthen the public, diverse common school. We had a different view of the fresh school when the law was passed in the previous period, and we went to the election that we wanted to change it. The purpose of the legislative changes that Odelstinget is to take into account today was to stop uncontrolled growth in fresh oils. It follows from the Soria Moria Declaration: ‘The government will review legislation and support schemes for private schools in order to tighten the uptake of private schools which do not constitute a religious or educational alternative to public schools.’ The government will present a proposal for a law based mainly on the main principles of the former private school law. With this in mind, I have started a full review of the law on high school. The proposal for comprehensive and comprehensive legislative changes will be sent to the consultation in autumn 2006, and presented to the Stortinget in spring 2007. Developments in the Norwegian school over the past 10–15 years, and overall social development, have necessitated a thorough investigation of what needs to be considered a pedagogical option and on the basis of which religious schools can be established. Until the new law is in place, it has been necessary to stop the uncontrolled growth of fresh oils. This is the background to the proposal for temporary legislative amendment. Without a rapid change in course, the growth in post-school places would have become significant and irreversible. In this context, I would like to point out that if all approved and applied student sites in the fresh coal were put into service in the autumn of 2005 and in the spring of 2006 respectively, this would have meant an increase of approx. 6 800 places in primary school, approx. 40 schools, and approx. 15,000 pupils in secondary school, about 75 schools. The increase in the number of students in secondary schools would have been about 150 p.p., while the increase in primary independent schools would have been about 50 pst. There's reason to stress that of the approx. 15,000 places in high school are only a dozen places not concerned with schools such as John Bauer, Sonans or the Academy. As far as I'm able to look in my papers today, there's only two schools with a total of dozens of students who would have educational or other alternatives than what's in these other Bauer schools or R94 schools that they're often called. In addition, as some have stressed, many of these schools were approved after the last government lost the election, when it knew that our government put forward and negotiated a new platform on Soria Moria, with a different content and a different view of health schools than the outgoing government had. The proposal in the proposition has been accepted in the setting, and I am pleased to see that. It is proposed to suspend the authorisation of new fresh oils. Furthermore, it is proposed that approved schools which were not in operation on 13 December 2005 should not be allowed to operate under the law on primary education. It is proposed that, in exceptional cases, derogations may be granted. Exceptions are mainly applicable to so-called cross-border schools. This applies to schools that follow public curricula and to schools that provide a pedagogical or religious alternative. There is also a proposal for a change to the Law on Vocational Education, which has been discussed by many. I am referring to the fact that the Stortinget has asked for clarification of the relationship between Chapter 6A of the Law and the Law on Vocational Education. It has been shown that there is a problem that education, which according to objective criteria is at the same level, can be recognised by two different laws and that this creates confusion. In the proposal, we warn that this clarification will be made in the context of the review of the law on early school leave to be submitted to the Stortinget in the spring of 2007. In such a situation, where such clarification is to be made and where the vocational school funding scheme is to be explored, it would be unfortunate and would have a move from Chapter 6A of the Law to the Law on Vocational Schools, so that several institutions would be entitled to receive legal funding in accordance with the rules of the Law, irrespective of the future funding scheme for vocational schools. This is the background to the proposal to amend the second paragraph of Section 8 of the Fachschulegesetz. Let me stress that the bill does not imply a lower financial framework for schools that are approved under the Law of 6A, as they still have funding under the Law of Free School. The proposal for the amendment to the Fachschulegesetz implies that the Chapter 6A schools which receive vocational education qualification after 16 December 2005 and which choose to pursue their activities under the Fachschulegesetz will no longer have legal requirements for funding under the rules of the Fachschulegesetz as they currently have. Finally, let me say that the setting repeats the minority, and also in this debate, claims that administrative principles are set aside. This is not right, and I refer here to the setting that exists and also to statements from the Department of Law in the Ministry of Justice that are crystal clear on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22-lower.ana.ud1313e664	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22-lower.ana.ud1313e667	Well, lately, the law department hasn't said that much about it. They have stated on the Constitution § 97, and there are two different things. The Ministry of Education is also responsible for child care coverage, and three-quarters of the child care service currently provided by the Government is provided by private childcare providers. It's very positive. Governments have in many ways, including in the media, honoured the efforts of private kindergartens to ensure child care coverage. Why, then, is it so bad that private also wants to run school? Both kindergartens and secondary education are voluntary services for those using them. Is it so important to offer private services in the kindergarten sector because the party leaders of the Council of State depend on adequate child care coverage – is it really so banal and simple?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22-lower.ana.ud1313e676	No, of course it's not like that. In school it is a mandatory offer for those who are going to school. Kinderhagen is a voluntary offer. Our funding of the nursery sector is equal treatment for public and private kindergartens. This means that the funding scheme as such does not discriminate against what it is like, but the municipality is the body responsible for – as stated in the kindergarten agreement – facilitating the provision of childcare facilities for those who wish to do so – it is public or private. It's still the case that kindergartens are governed by a framework plan, and those who don't want a nursery place, of course, have the opportunity not to have it. This is all the way up to the parents. This means that kindergarten and school have materially different content, namely that kindergarten is a voluntary offer, while school is a mandatory offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22-lower.ana.ud1313e681	In the course of the debate, several party colleagues and government colleagues of the Council of State have been involved in the unambiguously segregated effect of a certain element of fresh schools on society. Perhaps the Council of State can help to clarify this, since none of his colleagues have been able to do so. Can the Council of State provide evidence that a certain element of fresh oils leads to a clear increase in segregation? Is the Council aware of research on the opposite, namely that a certain element of fresh schools leads to a reduction in segregation, or no segregation effect at all? I would like to answer in writing if the Council of State is unable to respond on a standing footing.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22-lower.ana.ud1313e688	There is a lot of and extensive research on this, especially from our neighbouring country, Sweden. But it's true that a lot of research goes in a slightly different direction. It is also appropriate to stress that there is a basis for saying that, however, the studies point in the direction that freedom of choice strengthens segregation. This is reflected in the research project mentioned earlier in the debate, by Sun-Joon Hwang, Head of Unit at the Swedish School Agency. In addition, studies show that freedom of choice is primarily assumed by the well-trained. There are many different conclusions to this, but there is a basis for saying that the main emphasis of research is on moving towards segregation. I think it's also right to say that there's some research that shows the opposite. In particular, the recent reports, when the Swedish law on early school leave has been debated again, show that the trend is, as far as I am able to remember, that there is a clear sign of increased segregation.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22-lower.ana.ud1313e693	I allow myself to ask State Council Djupedal if it was worth the price. Was it worth putting a line over the approval that was given to 40 freshols, so they couldn't establish themselves? Was it worth the price when, at best, one had to move on the edge of the Constitution and at least break good administrative practices? There was a very generous offer from 40 fresh schools that were willing to reduce the number of places from 22,000 – and I record again that the Council of State is still operating with 22,000 seats – to less than a quarter, to 5,000. My question is also whether the Council of State has registered such an offer at all? You could have avoided this conflict, you could have made a soft landing in the high school problem, and you could have escaped to those places that wouldn't have been a threat to any public school in Norway. Was it worth it? Why in the world are you not willing to fold a single inch, but stand so strongly on what you have proposed?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22-lower.ana.ud1313e700	Since this is a recurring topic in the debate, I would like to quote from the Legal Department of the Ministry of Justice, for which conclusions cannot be dictated – let me say that. The law department is totally independent – their conclusions have been heavily rested by other governments, including our government. It is stated in the conclusion – only for the conclusion of this debate: ‘We find reason to point out that one here is not in the border area for what will be affected by the ban on return in Section 97 of the Grundgesetz.We add that we cannot see that there would be a general scope for liability for the State for financial loss as a result of the fact that the Stortinget intervenes by law in permits to operate a free school as outlined above.’ That means that this debate is really a non-debate. The point is that this has been stated by the law department, and the conclusion was quoted above. To the second question, I have to say the following: Yes, we were facing an uncontrolled growth in the number of post-school places that made it absolutely necessary to take decisions that prevented irreversible development. The reality is that in the representative, Lånkers' home country, and in the home counties of all the representatives in the hall, we had an establishment of so many commercial schools in high school – and also at primary level – that it would have been very demanding for education authorities to dimension a good public education.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22-lower.ana.ud1313e714	I find that by direct quote the Council of State confirms what I have said earlier: With regard to the so-called 6A schools and vocational schools, they have been chosen to be included in the freezing law for reasons of appropriateness. It's a very clear political signal, because it means that, for security reasons, you bring with you someone who isn't really contentious, and who's never been in doubt about it. I just take note that it is now clearly fixed by the Council of State. I'm going to try my question for the fourth time today. Can the Council of State, with the possibility it has through instruction and regulatory assistance, give a clear signal that no student at 6A schools or post-secondary schools – currently in a situation where they only have public support through education support – will be in a situation where they lose this support as a result of the freezing law or as a result of the effects of previous laws giving regulatory homes? Can the Council of State give the guarantee that no students at 6A schools and post-secondary schools will lose their education support?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22-lower.ana.ud1313e721	As I said in my main post, the reason why the technical schools have to be part of this is that there are two parallel recognition systems. This means that all the schools that have prior approval will have the same funding, but it is because there has been a desire for the vocational schools to be reviewed. Let me say that there has been a broad desire in the United Kingdom for the vocational schools to be reviewed, because through many educational reforms they have received an intermediate position, or a parallel position, above secondary school level, but no higher education is given. That means that there are many different schools, both Bible schools, health and social schools, art schools and various schools that are important. Let me emphasize that this is not done because we want to hit these schools, or to touch these schools, but because we think they should get a better law anchor than what they have today. On the last question from the representative Dørum, I can answer that I know only one school that can be affected by this, and that's Spin Off. They will be approved in the Loan Fund as before. I don't know about other schools.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22-lower.ana.ud1313e729	I'm recording that the Council of State claims once again that high school is mandatory. But there's another relationship I won't let go completely. There are a number of schools that have applied for a 6A authorisation in order to maintain state approval under the transitional regime in 2007. Other schools have completed the whole process by adapting the teacher’s plan to the vocational school requirements, depending on the date of the 2003 decision. These schools now experience that the very existence of schools is at risk. Is it not directly illogical that the so-called 6A schools, which do not compete with the county councils, seem to be hit hard by the temporary law?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22-lower.ana.ud1313e736	As far as I know, no schools are affected by this in the way the representative here raises questions. So we have a system with two parallel approvals. All the schools that are approved will continue to receive financial support from the state, and then we start a process to review the legal anchoring of the law. Financial support will also be part of this. As far as I know, there are no schools that can feel some degree of insecurity around this, but they will then get their anchor in the law from which they are now supported. This question will be ample opportunity for Stortinget to come back to. But let me again underline this point, which I think the Progress Party will also agree with, that through many educational reforms the vocational schools have an intermediate position that is undecided. They are then approved by two different laws. Only in itself can there be reason to look at it more closely. That means we'll come back to Stortinget with a review of this, also because the subject schools have so many different content. As I said to the representative Dørum in a previous line: it's everything from art schools to health and social education, to Bible schools and various other important schools that our society wants. Our goal is not that these should be unforeseeable, but we need a review.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22-lower.ana.ud1313e745	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22-lower.ana.ud1313e748	Much interesting has emerged in the debate. The most interesting thing I've noticed is that the Progress Party, despite the fact that they want 100 pst. financing of private schools, not prohibiting school money. It might be pretty interesting that one gets 100 pst. funding, and in addition, can take a rather solid chance of school money from each student. That's what I thought was clarifying, and it's going to be very right in the future to discuss private school policy with the Progress Party. It was also said that this debate is not about the future. Well, that's exactly what it's doing. It's all about the future. It's about what kind of societies we're going to have in the future. Should our society be a society for people most, or just for a few chosen? We have reason to be proud of the Norwegian welfare state. There is a welfare model that turns out to allow for economic growth, combined with relatively small social and economic differences between people. For us in the Workers' Party, a well-developed welfare state means a safe and fair society that gives playfulness and opportunities to the individual human beings, regardless of background, and without going beyond others. This bill is about turning around and further developing the welfare state for the benefit of most people. School is a pillar of our welfare model. The Labour Party has fought through generations for equal opportunities for education for all. There's been a lot of tough thanks with the right side, which has wanted a different school policy, so today's contradictions are no new phenomenon. We're proud of the public high school, but we see, of course, that there's room for improvement. That's why we put a heavy strain on a knowledge promise in school, and unlike the previous government, we realize that quality costs. I am pleased that the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party today put an end to a large-scale privatisation and commercialisation of the school. I'm also glad we have opinion in our backs. Yes, in fact, a large proportion of the voters of the Right Party and the Advance Party also think that enough is enough. Nevertheless, we think it is entirely right that the Right Party and the Advance Party embrace the commercial private schools. In this way, we get clear political differences, and it is particularly nice for us in the Workers' Party that the Progress Party makes it clear that they are a classic right party, which is definitely not for the most people. However, we hope that the Left and Christian People's Party will evaluate what they are doing in the Chamber today, against what has been their former policy. In addition, we are going to have a process towards a new private school law. Then we hope that the Left and Christian People's Party will finally turn its back on private, commercial school actors. Finally, I would like to point to two arguments that have been used extensively by the right-hand side of the private school debate. Claim No 1: It is not allowed to make money on private schooling. I would like to quote Terje Hansen, who is a professor at the Institute of Business Economy at the Norwegian School of Business. He said in the Official Journal of Bergen on 13 April 2005: ‘The regulatory authorities are commercial amateurs.’He went on to say: ‘They have therefore ignored the fact that it is possible to obtain returns on investments other than through dividends to owners.’ There are many of us who have great problems seeing why listed companies, such as the stock exchange. the Swedish school chain John Bauer, will run school in Norway without serving one ear. Claim No 2, which has been partially repeated here in the hall today: Only 1-2 pst. of primary and secondary school students attend private schools. That's wrong. According to the Central Statistical Office, the number is 5 pst. for the 2004/2005 school year. If, on the other hand, the right-hand side had continued its privatisation, it could have been up to 13 pst. by students in private secondary schools from the autumn of 2006. When we know that the commercial players have been largely interested in establishing themselves in the cities, and then within study-specific offers, the percentage is much higher in these areas and within these offers. It can certainly lend the representative more depth, as he is from Trondheim, one of the cities where the percentage of commercial private school actors had become very high without this law. Our conclusion in the Workers' Party is therefore clear: this freezing law is absolutely necessary to ensure a good school offer for most people.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22-lower.ana.ud1313e781	The government parties stress in their opinions on this matter that the public school must be perceived as so safe and good that it is the natural choice for most parents. I'm pretty sure most of the representatives in this room can agree to such a pious wish. But one thing is to have a wish or a vision, something else is to have a goal. And if you have an objective, you must also provide the means necessary to achieve it. The Norwegian school system today is largely publicly funded and run. But do we have a good school, and what do we really add in that term? If you're assuming that school is going to be a place to learn and not just a place to be, then you have to focus on the learning outcomes that give you the answer as to whether school is good or not. There must be a focus on individual development of their sense of responsibility, sense of duty, formation and self-confidence based on their assumptions. It could give us the answer if we have a good school. Now it is very good in Norwegian school, but the results are not in proportion to the resources allocated to the school each year. This is evident through international studies such as PISA and TIMSS, where Norwegian students make it alarmingly poor compared to Norway which contributes to the school system. We lag behind with countries it's natural to compare ourselves with countries we're going to compete with. One of the main reasons for this negative development is, in my view, the unilateral efforts of the socialist parties at the single school and the single school. Through widespread belief in uniformity and uniformity, Norwegian schools have been set up against a non-existent average student. For the Advancement Party, the basic thing is that we are born different, and our ideology is that the individual human being should have the opportunity to maintain his individual peculiarity. It shall be possible to realize its personal dreams and to be enriched by the impulses of diversity around us, and not least it shall be possible to choose between different alternatives. Just the fact that every human being is unique, makes us think the equality process was, is and will be misplaced. Rather, the party of progress will have a social development where an emphasis is on human beings being treated as equivalent. Treating someone as equivalent actually means that they have to be treated differently according to their differences. The sociologists do not want such differentiation and such diversity. For them it seems that there is even more of the medicine that does not work, that is the solution. The Vice President of the Workers' Party, Professor Edvard Bull, wrote in the 1920s in the book «Communism and Religion»: ‘The children are to be made socialists, and the teachers are to make them. If we are to create the socialist school, we must have the power of school administration and local government and use it ruthlessly.’ Well, I'm not going to say that today's government is following Professor Bull's recipe, but that their handling of the law of free school is perceived as an almost ruthless demonstration of power, is raised above doubt. The sociologists' rhetoric in the election campaign has been strongly refuted in investigations by, among others. NIFU STEP. In its eagerness to stop high schooling, this also has special consequences for the vocational schools, and it stops the positive development that was going on. The majority say in their comments: ‘Currently, vocational schools receive very different funding from the public sector. In particular, with regard to the place of health and social education in the vocational school structure, the majority consider that there is a need for a review of the law and funding arrangements.’ The problem, however, is that the same one voiced a unanimous increase during the 2004 budgetary procedure. Then a department asked for a case during 2005 clarifying the financial arrangements for all approved specialised schools, and clarifying the relationship between secondary schools and vocational schools. It's today's government that is now pushing this whole clarification out at least two years in time. They create uncertainty for several arts schools and uncertainty about basic and continuing education courses in health and social sciences. The socialists are responsible for the fact that the so-called women-dominated soft professions only receive half of the state's support as much as the human-dominated technical subjects. Today’s government is responsible for the fact that a number of good adult unskilled care assistants are not offered vocational school education, but have to pay thousands of their own pockets to actors such as the AOF to get formalised education. With such a policy, there is a mystery for the signatory how the Government should be able to achieve its target of 10,000 new annual work in the care of the elderly during this period, at least if one assumes that this is a question of skilled staff. All these consequences we get because the government has created an imaginary hostile image of some school profitors who are trying to defuse the public school, despite the fact that the government knows or ought to know that the colleges under the law are unique non-profit activities. Surpluses or transfers to owners are not permitted, either directly or in the form of cost allocation, and free schools are not considered to be industrial activities. Historically, there is no unknown tactics used by the government here. By focusing on an imaginary enemy, the socialists get focus away from what is really wrong in Norwegian school, and they avoid skillfully critical questions as to whether it has not actually been their own socialist policy that has led to the poor results we are witnessing.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22-lower.ana.ud1313e806	The Labour Party believes that a good public school for all is the main factor in reducing class differences. Now that Norway has become a multicultural society, it is important that everyone attends the same school. This temporary law is, to the most extent, a law based on ideology and a concrete follow-up to the Soria Moria declaration. The private schools are not given the opportunity to start up as much as the bourgeois government wanted. This is not a debate on health and social education, more hands at work, or whether administrative principles have been put to the test. This is about whether our children and grandchildren are going to school in the community with children with different social backgrounds, skin color and religion, with different places of residence, with equal distribution of gender and children with different sizes of the moneybook. The Labour Party wants a strong public school. We are afraid that we will develop A and B schools in the free movement of private schools. In Sweden, after the civil Bildt government allowed in 1992 the establishment of fresh schools and free choice of schools in primary schools, it can be seen that the schools that are winners are those located in high-status residential areas and the schools that actively focus on marketing and profiling. This applies to both public and private schools. Public schools are located and should be scattered across the cities and districts where the children live, while a private school can be established where the school owner is best suited. Public schools should not and should not use their money for advertising brochures. That's not what school is for. The school is there to give our followers the most skilled education and social ballast to move on in life. In Sweden, the study shows that a school system of freedom of choice and independent schools must provide students and parents with information about schools and their quality. It also shows that high school parents have greater opportunities to search for and exploit information on freedom of choice for schools. We believe that the general public schools best care for the needs of the students. In Sweden, we can clearly see that the opening of commercial schools has resulted in parents’ educational level governing the choice of school. This may give rise to greater differences in educational provision and more unilateral school environments in each school, which in turn provide less social learning — even though private schools in Sweden receive 100pst. State aid. The critical voices of the right-hand side are marked by the perception that the public school is a grinder where all the children are going through exactly the same system, and that everyone comes out completely alike. Look around at us in the hall here today! Most of us have gone to public school, and we have all evolved in different directions, we have different ideological faiths and different educations. I'd rather say that it's the opposite, that children in private schools are more developing similarly: they go to a school with the same types of students and often with students with the same background. Once again, there will be those students with the same background that will remain in public school. This leads to increasing sorting. I think the most important thing is to raise the quality of public school and avoid just sorting. If the Minister of Knowledge had not initiated the freezing of primary schools, the number of pupils in private schools would have doubled from the autumn of 2006. Some 20,000 new student places are mentioned today. They would be established in private schools, and the public school in the cities would clearly be hit worst. See, for example: on the Drammen: half of the student mass at secondary level would have gone to commercial schools. I want to make it clear that this is just a freezer that lasts for a year. Work is already in progress on a new law on free school. The working party is concerned with diversity in the Norwegian school. We want a supplement to the public school for parents and students who want a different type of education. We are not strong opponents of educational and religious alternatives. However, developments in Norwegian school and social development in general require careful consideration of what is considered a pedagogical alternative and on the basis of which religious schools can be established. That's what the Minister of Knowledge mentioned earlier today, but I feel like repeating it. When the Law of Free School was passed at Stortinget on 27 May 2003, the representative Jan Sahl of the Christian People's Party said that the government's signals of commitment to the local economy would also lead to greater municipal freedom in the field of school. And he went on to say, ‘This is how it was rightly claimed – to some extent – that the municipalities have completed cross-border schools. But let me say it so that the law that we are now introducing will not contribute to an increase in this area, because this gives parents power in the form that the primary school is laid down, they can set up a boarding school. It will probably make any local government think before going to such a step." The true opposite has happened. I'm glad that the law we're now adopting contains an exception clause on cross-border schools. I would encourage the Minister of Knowledge to ensure that those schools receive prompt treatment, and that, in line with the Stortingen comment, schools are given the opportunity to start up as quickly as possible. [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22-lower.ana.ud1313e833	The President will remind you that you can use the measured speaking time, but not beyond that. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22-lower.ana.ud1313e838	The Government has put forward a proposal to introduce a freeze of the so-called 2003 law on free schooling. The Law of Free School is a law that would lead to greater differences in that we had gone from a common school to a sorting school. There would be less cooperation, tougher competition, less advice for municipalities, and there would be a loss of community school investment. Cows in popular schools mean that children would be rejected or had to travel far. Good teachers could be withdrawn from public school, and we would get a worse integration. I am very pleased that the voters at the fall fall election gave their support to another line. In Ot.prp. No 43 states – and we have to assume that these are the facts – that on 1 October 2005 there were 13 000 pupils in independent primary schools and 10 000 in independent secondary schools following public curricula. Today, the Directorate of Education has some 150 applications under the Law on Free Schooling. Two thirds of these free schools want to follow public curricula. If all approved and applied student places had been put into service in fresh schools for the autumn of 2005 and the autumn of 2006, there would be an increase of 7 000 pupils' places in primary schools and 15 000 pupils' places in secondary schools. In other words, the increase in the number of students in fresh schools would have been about 50 pst. in primary and 150 pst. in secondary school. And as the council said, only a few of these high schools would be a real alternative. Then we can read what the minority writes in its comment in the following setting: «The members of the Committee of the Progressive Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left note that there is full political agreement on the desirability and importance of a strong public school. Public schools are — and will remain — the dominant provision of education in primary education. At the same time, it is important to maintain that there is no contradiction between working for a strong public school and ensuring that parents are entitled and able to choose another training for their children.’ Furthermore, members feel that there is little reason to fear that public schools will be exposed to some particular threat from the newly arrived schools. I can't do with my best will to see how this can relate: a strong public school and an explosion in the commercial schools. Here we from the Labour Party and the Government have always been clear on what we want. I wish the opposition could also have been clear on what was their intention of a new law.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22-lower.ana.ud1313e854	No one should accuse the government of not following up what we said in the election campaign. The workers' party was against the law when it came. In the election campaign we promised to invest more in the public school and stop the release and the privatisation of the school that the previous government offered. Now we're dealing with a temporary law that does just this. It has been said from this pulpit before, that this should not come as a surprise to anyone. We've meant it all along. The Norwegian Joint School, with equal rights to education for all regardless of background, is one of the carriers of the Norwegian welfare system. It has led us to one of the world's highest educated people, and I see a clear connection here. At the same time, I believe that the content of the law and what it opened up to challenged this. Changes do not take place overnight, but the direction and course it provided was completely wrong for the Workers' Party. I'm glad the government has shown that it wants a different direction in school policy. The ideas and logic behind the law of free school represented an ideological shift in education policy towards more market and more competition, more AS education. These principles cannot be applied to anything as basic and important as education. Here are the other principles that must be in the driver’s seat: equal rights to education for all, a good school with a focus on quality, knowledge, inclusion and integration. This, I think, we're doing the best we can in the framework of public high school. I think all the parties in the Norwegian big business are saying that they want to strengthen the public school and make it even better. The government is demonstrating this in action by limiting the growth of private schools and investing in the public school where the vast majority of students go. We cannot take money out of public schools to put them into the pot for commercial players – private schools that are going to compete with public schools – believing that they are getting better. We do that by increasing resources and spending in public schools. The Manifest argument is an argument that is often raised. Creating healthy oils increases diversity. This argument does not meet its objective. We also find this in public schools today, a school in which everyone meets, a school that offers different lines, different educations, a school in constant development and improvement. A high school with the same line, the same type of students with the same background and interests do not represent diversity. It tends to equalize. This is a temporary law. I look forward to the Ministry of the Harvest making a proposal for a permanent law, a bill that clarifies what is considered a pedagogical alternative, and on what basis religious schools can be established – a new law that I hope will have the widest possible support in this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22-lower.ana.ud1313e869	Time has well come when it is possible to draw some summary conclusions from this debate. The government parties are drumming today through what they call an emergency law in the Stortinget. I believe that the term urgent law is more comprehensive. At post-point point, we have received feedback on unintended and serious consequences. Equally many times we have experienced a government council that does not listen. The government is already stopping approved fresh schools, including those approved on a religious and pedagogical basis. No new religious and pedagogical alternative schools will be approved until early 2008. And that happens despite what the government parties have said before. The review tone of the government parties both before, during and after the election campaign has been that the religious schools and those with alternative pedagogy should be protected. I have to say that the Central Party parliamentary leader in this Chamber today gave a very little convincing attempt to expound what was really said before the elections, and what was done afterwards. But as late as the Question Time on 9 November last year, the Prime Minister answered this question from me about the boarding schools: ‘This government has inter alia: made it clear that it still wants to open up, facilitate, provide schools with an alternative educational or religious basis.» That is why the Christian People's Party has appealed to the Government both in this Chamber and by letter to extend the exemption provisions of the law so that alternative schools of a religious or pedagogical nature could also continue to be approved. But the council has dismissed the proposal, and instead he performs to run through a law that affects them the government said they would not hit. The Council of State has chosen not to listen to any good proposals for compromises, both from other parties and from the colleges themselves. The Free Schools proposed a compromise proposal in which they would cut the number of seats by more than three quarters. It was a shy proposal, but the council rejected it. And still the state councils in this room talk as if that proposal had never been made. He continues to refer to the 22,000 places of school, while one fourth of those in high school operate. It is clear that there has been a lot of performance in the matter from the Government. If this is the kind of work that the Council of State will choose to do in the future, he can look forward to working together on the new permanent law. He should also listen to what was the Prime Minister's job description for the new government in connection with the autumn declaration debate when the Prime Minister said: ‘We are committed to ensuring cooperation and close contact with the government parties’ large-scale groups, but we are, as a government, also concerned with cooperating with the opposition. And although there are major and important issues we disagree on, we are sure that in this room there are people with a lot of expertise and knowledge that the Government will benefit from cooperating with." We've seen little of that in education policy, and I hope that's a change in that. Otherwise, I have to say that there is a lot of historylessness from many speakers in this room. It is such that the law of high school that we received in Norway under the Council of State of Kjell Bondevik was fought in this hall against the voices of the socialists. It is also the case that the socialists voted against the vast majority of the paragraphs of the law of free school that we received under Kjell Magne Bondevik. So coming here and saying that there is a kind of community between the Christian People's Party and the Workers' Party in support of religious schools and alternative schools is historyless. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22-lower.ana.ud1313e894	The debate we have witnessed here today has sometimes shown us politics at its worst. It happens when we put away facts and knowledge because we're more concerned with ideology and rhetoric. I will briefly grasp some of what has been said. For example, I wonder why the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre are so concerned about pretending that fresh schools can be commercial and make profits when they can't, and not least why the same parties give billions of state aid to private kindergartens, which can take dividends any day. Why is it that one is still trying to convince that there are highly segregated effects of fresh oils. Now, the Council of State, Mr. Djupedal, has had to stand on the pulpit and cancel what Anniken Huitfeldt and others have said in the debate today, that there are distinctly large social inequalities in countries that have a certain element of infirmities. So there is no research that can demonstrate such a uniqueness. The representative of Huitfeldt also believed that the municipalities received less money to run the school while we were in government. The reality is that when we took over the government, the municipalities had NOK 58 052 to run the school for per person. student. When we left, the municipalities had NOK 63 619 to run the school for per person. student. It's an increase, not a decrease. It's been up here that it's important that all children go to the same school and with the same type of students. So in the Norwegian community school, there's four times as much chance that you're going to start college if your parents have done it, as if they haven't. Will a certain element of fresh oils increase or decrease it? In fact, the probability is quite high that at least it won't increase segregation. Norwegian research suggests, on the contrary, that it can have a positive effect. When Anna Ljunggren says that it's important that all students go to the same school and with the same type of students, the main reason why parents want to go to fresh schools is that they want a more heterogeneous student mass. They want more different students on behalf of their children, and they get them in colleges. They don't get that in public school. This has also been an interesting debate, because it has presented some of the things that I think it is important to go into more detail when you get the final law for treatment. Among other things, it's going to be very interesting to see what's going to be left of the religious and pedagogical alternatives when we're not going to have religious schools that are especially religious, when we're not going to have schools for Muslims, and the educational options are going to be so hard to define, because there's almost nothing that's alternative enough longer as the public school has a greater degree of freedom. I'm very excited about what it comes out of it. My prediction is that in Norway in the future we will not even see anything that will be near the old private school law. We're going to see less diversity, fewer alternatives, fewer opportunities for parents and students to choose something else – simply fewer opportunities to join and create a better society.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22-lower.ana.ud1313e912	Let me also make a little ideological point in the school debate. But let me begin by commenting on the international school in Kristiansand, which has emerged in the debate. The legislative proposal, which is hopefully adopted today, means that we avoid the privatisation of the school as several opposition politicians in the county are also – and were – opposed. The school in Kristiansand sent its application after the government had notified the freezing law, and they should therefore not be surprised that they were not receiving treatment of their application. But when the new law on free schooling is dealt with here in the hall, this school will, of course, also be treated on the basis of the criteria used. So we haven't said that we're against accepting this application. We'll see about that. Perhaps the largest public school in Norway is in the process of discontinuing the difference society. Imagine if the children in Northern Ireland had attended the same school, yes, thinking about the children in the Middle East, Palestinians and Israelis, had attended the same school! Then I think it would have been harder to blow up classmates in the air, shoot them or occupy them. What's important in school policy is going away from a different society and towards a society like what we have in Norway. Show me the school system, and I'll tell you what society it is, there's a lot of wise people who have said before me. So the United Nations has named Norway the world's best society to live in. We should honor teachers and people who have created this society. That doesn't mean we're not reforming the school. Of course we'll do that, based on the reality that comes eventually. But we have the best society in the world, and it's built on a foundation that the school has laid. Everyone in this room should be proud and happy that the Norwegian people have stopped the privatisation of right-wing forces and run towards a wider disparity society. I am at least proud of all the young social democrats who have been to the pulpit here today and clearly stated that they will still have a society in which the principle of equality must stand strong.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22-lower.ana.ud1313e925	One should not be surprised at anything, I understand. The last article was marked by some comparisons that at least do not belong in the Norwegian free school debate. Then I got to say it! Parliamentary leader of the Central Party, Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa, said in a reply earlier today that the Progress Party did not answer questions. That is not correct, because the question asked by Meltveit Kleppa was also asked by Anniken Huitfeldt, and then the question was answered in an unusually clear way. That was what I thought the representative Meltveit Kleppa had with him, and I did not think it was right to waste the Stortingen's time to answer the same question twice. The representative Lena Jensen claimed from this pulpit that the Swedish have had such negative results from the free schools they had since the 1990s. That's not right! I wonder what kind of research it refers to here. There are a number of studies that show exactly the opposite, and in addition, the studies show that the Swedish education system is incredibly high. So the Swedes are very satisfied with their free school offer. In his article, Lena Jensen almost does not say a word about quality. She's only talking about social cohesion. I also thought it was important to have a certain focus on the contents of the school, and not just on who goes there. Council of State Djupedal refers to the Soria Moria Declaration as the basis for this law's adoption. The Soria Moria declaration was made after the election. There was no one who knew in advance of the election what the outcome of the Soria Moria declaration was. We have heard many references here that there were ambiguous signals from the Center Party, and quite clear signals from the Workers' Party that the 40 approved boarding schools should not lose their approval. This is an unpredictable result of the government's cooperation, and I think that is exactly what the government council and government parties should take inwards, and not try to expound. The government parties have hardly spent any time discussing this law. They've spent a lot of time explaining the excuses and the reason why it's being promoted, and many minutes in the pulpit saying that they're just doing what everyone should expect. But when you dig a little bit in the archives, it turns out that the world isn't that simple. I think in essence this debate reveals that we are left with one fundamental question, especially after the Council of State Djupedal in relation to the comparison we took in the line exchange earlier today, will not compare kindergarten and high school. He says that one is mandatory, the other is not. Secondary education is not compulsory. It's never been. It's voluntary just like the kindergarten. I am still asking for a clear response from the Council of State as to why private kindergartens are good when fresh schools are somewhat negative. The last fundamental question left in this debate is: Why is freedom of choice so dangerous? What makes representatives like Huitfeldt, Ljunggren, Jensen, the Ruites and the Council of State Djupedal think they know so much better than anyone else?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22-lower.ana.ud1313e944	Before the election, we knew that there was a kind of fresh air that the government didn't like. We still know that. Then we've been told something in addition, that in practice it doesn't like religious and pedagogical schools through the freezing law either. Then we have also been confirmed – for safety reasons – that it was okay to include § 6A schools and specialised schools, because an administrative work was still to be done. We know that you don't like these either when you want to make a law like this. But then I have also been told something else. As a committee member, I have gained the following knowledge: in a letter to the Committee on 22 April, the name of five schools, which are at risk of losing training unless something concrete happens, is mentioned. It is the multi-disciplinary art institute in Bærum, the School of Arts and Design, the School of Art at Rotvold, the Norwegian School of Photography and the Tone Lise Academy. Then I've been told another thing as well, and that's that the council knows only one school, that's Spin Off. Then I take it for granted that if the Council of State gets involved and becomes aware of other schools, he has after this stated according to reasonable, correct and good administrative traditions, confirmed that they will then receive fair, proper and good treatment. It was a certainty that nuanced the picture somewhat to me this evening, while the other did not. We have had a debate that is really a little about political culture in cooperation or not. Earlier today, we have dealt with a Document No. 8 suggestions, where it could eat. It would have been quite possible, but it was willing to find a solution. One of those schools was called Hope. It's a very special school, but you found a solution because it was a willingness to find a solution. It's a school that's inside, or related to, what we're talking about here. We learn that because – in my opinion, and I would say that as it is – a kind of prestige goes in the way you want to ‘freeze’, then you let the ‘freeze’ become – and I use the expression on purpose – a guillotine. That guillotine brings more. That's the way with guillotines that you start using them first, it goes with more in the drag sucker than the ones you first thought about. All historical knowledge of the use of guillotines has produced such gloomy results. Today's guillotine use, which is in the law of free school, is just a historical reminder. It is also the case that I am equipped with the same political memory as the representative Højbråten. I remember how some schools that you now like in principle, but in practice don't like, weren't so much liked before. I'm not going that far into my political memory. There I will stick to the familiar scripture that there is greater joy over the one who turns in time, than over those who never do. Then we're going to hope that it also sticks to future debates in this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22-lower.ana.ud1313e957	I would like to make a few comments on the tame of the debate. For the first time, I was guilty of a misunderstanding with the Right. Right thought I was busy being able to choose between public schools. My point is that in recent years there have been a number of parents who have had no choice to let their kids go to a public school, because not at least a tight community economy has brought the school down. The chairman of the committee pays tribute to the community economy of the Right, but it is a fact that the year of the signature of the Health Law, 55 pst. by the municipalities in an investigation that they had to cut precisely in the school. This is in stark contrast to the growth in free income that today’s government has ensured – 8 billion dollars over two years. So the Højbrätt owes more here for the lack of ability to listen, for prestige and for history. With regard to the performance of this case, I do not know myself. Missing ability to listen, he said. In this case, it must also go to the Højbrätt itself, who is not willing to accept that, when it comes to legal advice, how the applications should be handled, even the lawyers have advised the Christian Free Schoolers Association to bet on non-discrimination. So to the story. Editor Rimehaug in Our Country wrote on the day of the signature of the Friskellova: ‘When free competition is opened up in school, there is a lot of talk that private schools will leave with the victor and get the best pupils and the most resource-intensive parents. Such a development towards a new classroom would be a setback for the thinking behind the free school movement and Kjell Bondevik's private school law.» It's also part of the history production. Then it's probably true that SV and the Workers' Party have moved from what happened that time to now, but it's the case that the government's party now stands together to sneak on a new law that will last the schools based on life's vision and on alternative pedagogics. I look forward to a broad cooperation not only with the Labour Party and SV, but also with the Christian People's Party and the Left to secure a school that, not least Jon Lilletun, was a strong figure for as Minister of Education.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22-lower.ana.ud1313e979	Let me summarise some of the questions I have received, and then first the question about these 6A schools as the representative of Dørum again. Without prejudice to the fact that I now understood which five schools he referred to here, these are schools that currently have 6A schools. This means that there will be no change in their support through this change in the law on early school education that we are doing today, even in the case of student support. So if I now realized correctly which of these five schools are, they won't be affected by the change we're doing here. The only change for the colleges is that if you want to be a free school for a period of freeze, it will matter. That is why I have to say that a lot of this debate, which the representative Dørum has specifically addressed today, is obviously based on rumors and not on the fact that the law says something very clearly. Let me also say that I think it has been a good debate. There has been a good debate, because there has been a debate that shows that there are differences in some issues in Norwegian policy, and that can sometimes be good. But let me also say that when we come back with a permanent law, I want to cooperate with the centre parties in Norwegian politics. In the long lines of Norwegian education policy, the centre to the left has been united. There may be some law now and then that you have disagreed about, but in the long run there has been a broad uprising – from the Left in the last century and centuries before that, and also from the Christian People's Party – about the jointly funded public school. It has been the basis of Norwegian education policy. It's been the basis of the whole emergence of Norwegian society, and that's what the majority in this room really expresses. Then we faced a very special situation by getting a totally uncontrolled growth of schools that did not represent a traditional alternative, but which had a completely different objective, namely to compete with the public schools within the same law. This was a new thing. This means that the opening of a release that occurred in the previous period was a breach of the long lines of Norwegian education policy. If you subtract the essence of what the representatives of the Left and the Christian People's Party say in this room, it's that they want to go back there, but they also want the religious and educational alternatives. So do we. We want to get back to Stortinget with a law that has these alternatives, because we think they're important. However, we do not believe that the release we saw in the previous period was correct, and that is why the freezing law that is currently under treatment in Odelstinget was necessary. Once this has calmed down and we can get into dialogue with the center parties, we hope that we will be able to create a law that will have broad support in the Stortinget. I would also like to invite the Right Party and the Advance Party to participate, but they have broken what are the long lines of Norwegian education policy. It does not have the centre parties in this debate, at my discretion. They represent the long lines that we from the Government do. That means that there should be a basis for a good law that opens up the alternatives that the Christian People's Party and the Left want, but that has a restriction on those schools that neither these parties believe represent any reasonable supplement to the public school.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22-lower.ana.ud1313e992	The temporary law must be based on non-discrimination. That's why there are also some schools that we want to be established, which will be frozen one year. But let me remind you of what the initiator of the new school in Bergen, Mosse Jørgensen, says. She says that idealists have time to wait. And it has many of these schools. I know that someone from stone schools and Montessori schools is most annoyed because the previous government created ambiguity around the private schools, contributed to a massive release and did not say that there was a qualitative difference between the educational and religious alternatives and the commercial actors. Ine Marie Eriksen says there are no commercial actors in the private school market. Well, you can think it's help that Swedish chains do when they establish themselves in Norway. Of course, it's money to earn on private schooling. Experience from our neighbouring Nordic countries is that several private schools have contributed to social polarisation. So the social democrats in Sweden want a completely different law, and they come to Norway to see how we've got to the law that we're now going to cooperate on. The school policy of the Progress Party has now been clarified during this discussion. They want a checkbook freedom. This check is going to pay for the minimum school – the public school. In addition, they say nothing about the fact that there should be any connection with the parental payment. This means that the richest have the opportunity to use the check from the public to a minimum funding and then put money on top to get an even better offer for their children. That's how we create a two-part school system. I don't know what the Right is going to do when we're going to deal with a permanent private school law, but I feel pretty sure that the Left and Christian People's Party doesn't come together with the Progress Party in this matter, because this is the recipe for increased polarization in Norwegian society.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22-lower.ana.ud1313e1001	I didn't intend to take the word so late at night, but a number of the claims that have come from this pulpit today, I can't let go by without comments. The Progress Party is able to provide quite a lot of misinformation from this pulpit, among other things. that Lena Jensen in his post spoke nothing about quality in school and the importance of strengthening it. If the Progress Party had listened, it would have been heard that it was just this, this government's and the red-green majority's bet on the public school, I talked about in my main post. Let me take an example from my home country, Troms. If we had not made this freeze in connection with the decision we are making today, the Tromsø Centre would have established about 1,500 high school places, places to be established as public places – and the county would have to pay for these places. The county was opposed, but the former government wanted to press the county to establish these places. So the county had to pay for these school places. The result would have been that a number of schools in the district would have been forced to lay down. You would have changed the school structure and got a centralization that you hadn't seen before. It would have destroyed the district policy and the school policy that the majority of Troms want to pursue. The decision taken today is Step No: 1 against a new private school law. The decision taken today is an important and good decision. This shows that the majority of the Stortinget once again is taking action on the development of public schools and that we are betting on quality.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22-lower.ana.ud1313e1012	Ine Marie Eriksen has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22-lower.ana.ud1313e1015	So what we are discussing today is about the world's strictest law of free school. We don't have Sweden's law of high school, where the schools are allowed to make dividends. We don't have Sweden's high school policy. So in this area, we did not find it necessary to look for the social democrats in Sweden. We live in a country where we don't manage to give basic reading training to approx. 15-20 pst. of our population. I don't think there's anything to brag about. However, what is a fact is that in many other countries, where they both have more health and less money than in Norway, you are able to balance the differences and you are able to provide basic reading training to your population. I think it's quite discouraging to dismiss this with empty rhetoric. The representative Anniken Huitfeldt believes that Swedish chains do not provide assistance. It's possible. But that also means that Anniken Huitfeldt assumes that free school chains like John Bauer, Sonans and the Academy are going to commit crimes in Norway. So there's no evidence to claim. [[President clubs]] I think it is quite special that such claims are repeated once and for all from the pulpit of the Storting without it being charged.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22-lower.ana.ud1313e1024	The President reminds us of measured time. The representative Odd Einar Dørum has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22-lower.ana.ud1313e1029	Two points: The first point, as the representative Ine Marie Eriksen said, is that the law of free school that is now frozen is incredibly much more restrictive than the Swedish social-democratic law that the bourgeois government never found reason to copy. So to the matter. When I have raised the question of education aid, it is not based on rumors. It is also not based on the Law of Secondary Education, but it is based on the Law of Education Support. In the context of the Education Aid Act, a transitional arrangement has been put in place due to previous decisions in Stortinget. It is this transitional system that needs to be extended to ensure that the five schools that I read instead are not squeezed. I expect the State Council to look at the law on education aid, will look at the regulations resulting from the law on education aid, which is a consequence of previous decisions on enlargement in connection with the law on free schooling that is being frozen. I assume that if the schools that I read up, get stuck, they will, after the Council of State's statement, not do it. I'm glad.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22-lower.ana.ud1313e1037	The representative Anders Anundsen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22-lower.ana.ud1313e1040	The representative, Huitfeldt, in a way ridicules the Norwegian law by saying that Swedish schools do not provide assistance. I find it unwise for a representative in the legislative assembly to ridicule Norwegian law in the way that Huitfeldt's representative did. I must say I smiled a little bit of the example of Lena Jensen. She thought it was dramatic that there would be many student places in Tromsø – and she automatically assumes that the public schools would lose out on the competition against the private! Does Lena Jensen really think that the Norwegian public school is so greedy that it will not be able to compete with the private ones? I think it's a wonderful rhetoric – and this was under a minute!
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22-lower.ana.ud1313e1047	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22-lower.ana.ud1313e1055	Odelstinget then goes to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22-lower.ana.ud1313e1144	The party of progress, the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22-lower.ana.ud1313e1157	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The party of progress, the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22-lower.ana.ud1313e1171	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22-lower.ana.ud1313e1223	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word under Section 37(a) of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
