ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-18.ana.ud1898e26	The following called alternates have taken their seats: For the West-Agder counties: Astrid Bekkenes For the Province of Buskerud: Hilde Groenhovd For Finnmark County: Kirsti Saxi For Oslo: Aud Kvalbein
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-18.ana.ud1898e48	On the basis of the fourth paragraph of Section 26 of the Rules of Procedure, the President will propose that the scheduled weekly programme be amended for the current week, so that the scheduled odelstningsbet will be cancelled on Thursday 19 January. – No objections have been raised to the President’s proposal and it is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-18.ana.ud1898e65	On Monday the Stortingen received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following members of the Government would meet for oral Question Time: State Council Erik SolheimState Council Knut StorbergetState Council Heidi Grande Røys The announced members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, wish to ask themselves the main questions asked. We then start with the first main questions, from the representative Jan Arild Ellingsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-18.ana.ud1898e84	I want to ask a question to the Minister of Justice. For some of us, becoming a Norwegian national is an automatic – we get citizenship by being born in Norway, and are thus Norwegians of origin. For others, it may be the very goal of life — to come to Norway, to be established here and eventually to have a Norwegian citizenship. I assume that the Council of State agrees with me that when people are to be granted Norwegian citizenship, this should be done on the basis of promoting correct information about their own background, so that they can have access to it legally. Yesterday there was a bigger look in the news where UDI was very concerned that they did not have access to check the background of some people who come here and apply for citizenship. It had a link to the fact that they do not have access to the criminal records of the respective country of origin of these persons. This led to UDI being concerned that they could give Norwegian citizenship to people who should have been expelled, sent back and prosecuted in the country from which they came. Then my question becomes to the Council of State: does the Council of State share the concern that UDI here expressed? Does he also see it as a necessity to make changes, so that people who get Norwegian citizenship get it legally, and so that no one by getting citizenship avoids criminal prosecution in the country from which they are actually from?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-18.ana.ud1898e95	Me and the government share the questioner's concern about this issue. In the government's strategy to discover more crime, react more appropriately in relation to crime, but also in order to achieve a more effective fight in general, it is essential that we get the grip on those groups that in many of the criminal cases represent an overrepresentation. This is also due to concern about some immigrant groups that are overrepresented in crime statistics, as the questioner has also taken into account on previous occasions in the Grand Duchy. As far as citizenship is concerned, getting a Norwegian citizenship in many ways is the ultimate honour you can get. It brings many rights, but to the greatest extent also many obligations. The concern that UDI has now recorded, and which I also registered yesterday, takes the government very seriously. The main challenge may be to consider first and foremost the extent to which UDI can now be given access to relevant registers when making decisions such as: forms the basis of citizenship. The government has already addressed the issue on the basis of the Schengen registers and, as the representative will remember, we have also opened up opportunities for the foreign authorities to check against, among other things, more than in the past. The SIS register for Schengen. This is a debate that I am convinced will come more widely, and the Government is open to looking at changes, so that we get better information and better facts when important decisions, among other things. whether citizenship is to be taken.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-18.ana.ud1898e102	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It is reassuring that the Government too is concerned about this situation. Personally, I have understood that the main challenge in what you do when you grant citizenship is to take an administrative decision, while what the police have access to check through international agreements is criminal, and that there is not automatically a link between the two assumptions. I would then believe that a major challenge further needs to be that the Government, in addition to looking at the SIS registry and the Schengen system and agreements through Interpol and Europol, must also look at the possibilities of extending the number of bilateral agreements with the respective countries – where possible – from which we have applicants with a worrying background and history. My next question is therefore: Will the Council of States consider to a greater extent seeking to reach agreements with countries that we have – I don't know if I can use the term – ‘bad experiences’ with, so that we ensure that those who get citizenship get it legally and not in order to avoid what they should actually have been prosecuted for?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-18.ana.ud1898e109	I think I'll say it so strongly that the government will not just assess, but actually is working on getting more bilateral agreements around these important issues. I have pointed out in several debates on the fight against crime that we are not going beyond closer committed international cooperation, where we may have to agree to give sovereignty in order to win sovereignty in the fight against crime. Bilateral agreements are essential. The government is not only working to increase the number of bilateral agreements, but also to get bilateral agreements in several areas in the criminal justice sector. I would like to mention in particular the question of compensation, which I know the representative Ellingsen has also been concerned about, in relation to being able to make the compensation more effective, so that one among other things. may have zones in the country of origin, as far as possible and within human and human rights frameworks. I would also mention, in the context of the return problem, that when someone is given a conviction and is going out of the country, we are also dependent on several bilateral agreements.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-18.ana.ud1898e118	The President allows three follow-up questions – first Elisabeth Aspaker.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-18.ana.ud1898e121	The Council of State here has clearly seen that the enquiry that has come from the UDI is important, and that it is right to go into it more closely. Crimes in Norway and abroad must be treated in a non-discriminatory manner, and it is very important that the authorities involved in the handling of applications for citizenship have good practices for good interaction between themselves. I hear the Minister of Justice says the Government will go into this carefully. I then asked him if he saw that you would come to Stortinget with changes in the law in order to get a thorough and good enough procedure. I also want to challenge the Minister of Justice whether he sees it as necessary to take new initiatives for an even closer judicial cooperation internationally in order to make it possible to survive that stay in Norway will become a shortcut to citizenship for groups that we do not want to be able to get it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-18.ana.ud1898e130	I want to confirm that this could be relevant to changes in the law. These are certainly important issues, which concern both the legal security of people, the security of people and the important and important interests of privacy. So, with regard to both the question of transparency in each other's registers, the question of the factual basis for the application for citizenship and the legislation itself, it is certainly important that the Storting should also be given its control over. I would also like to remind you – and this is fortunately the focus of most parties – that we are also dependent on balancing the privacy considerations around such important issues, so that trust in, among other things. the registers do not lose sight of the need to have an effective fight against crime. So the answer is yes, we want to come up with measures in relation to this field, and we will come back to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-18.ana.ud1898e137	Bjørg Tørersdal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-18.ana.ud1898e141	Norwegian citizenship may be granted after 7 years of residence in Norway. During this period, Norwegian police and foreign police should cooperate and investigate allegations of crime committed by applicants abroad. It is not desirable, as the Council of State has repeatedly said, that Norwegian citizenship be granted to persons who have committed serious crime. But here there have to be discretionary judgements. How will the Council of State define ‘serious crime’? And what are the conditions we're talking about, when we're talking about those who've lived for seven years in Norway, and about relationships that are longer in time?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-18.ana.ud1898e146	That's a big question. I don't know if it's particularly appropriate that I go into discussing the question of the criteria in relation to this, all the time the government is actually going to go into it. Of course, we also want the Stortinget to be given its approval. I would say that in many of the cases I have seen, not only in terms of citizenship, but also in relation to expulsion issues, it is quite clear that the Stortinget has previously assumed that there is a relatively low threshold for responding to criminal offences. So ‘serious crime’ has been interpreted reasonably far, and this government does not want to change that practice. It's going to be very little until the aliens have the authority to respond to criminal acts, and so we're getting closer to zero tolerance. I imagine that that line is extremely important to maintain even in the future, but the very definition question we're going to get back to.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-18.ana.ud1898e153	Step Skei Grande – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-18.ana.ud1898e156	Yeah, everybody's against crime. I hear from the Minister of Justice that he has a commitment that is very similar to that of the Progress Party in this area. But I am very pleased that the Minister of Justice also chooses to focus on privacy. It is also important for Norway to welcome new citizens. This society needs new citizens who can participate with the same rights and obligations as the Norwegians. So I just want to give the Minister of Justice the opportunity to say that this society actually needs some new citizens, and that there are no issues related to crime that are our biggest challenge in maintaining the well-being of this society.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-18.ana.ud1898e163	I'm not going to go into characterizing the government's policy either in one direction or another. It has to be on its own. But I fully agree with the questioner that we need both labour and, to some extent, other impulses from abroad, and that there are very good care for many of the immigrants who are coming to Norway today and who are allowed to stay here. But in my opinion and in the government's view, it is precisely a prerequisite for us to take advantage of and have the effect of such a positive integration, that we are able to react quite resolutely and clearly to those who commit criminal acts. I don't see any contradiction in that. I actually think that's a prerequisite. The work done by the previous government on this issue is being continued. And I think there's no line shift compared to the previous government's strategy in relation to this, to react in cash just when people have committed or commit criminal acts. It weakens very much the confidence both in the administration of foreigners and in the content of the institution of citizenship if we are committed to giving citizenship to people who have obviously committed serious criminal acts.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-18.ana.ud1898e170	Let's go to the next main question – Erna Solberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-18.ana.ud1898e173	I would like to ask the Minister of Renewal and Administration a question related to what the Joint Union Vice-Chairman yesterday characterized as a PR-jippo to a thousand, but which is actually a PR-jippo to millions, namely the trials of the 6-hour working day. I want to do it in the perspective that, for both the previous government and the government before it was one of the main objectives of the renewal and modernisation work, we would be able to break out and move the workforce in order to meet the challenge with an increasing number of older people who are going to have good care for the elderly and who are going to have a good health service. There has been a fundamental need to look forward to the modernisation work that has been and that several governments have been working on. We know that in the years to come, the wave of older people will mean a great deal of pressure on the labour force to move to this sector. It is also a sector where there are limits to efficiency. Indeed, productivity developments in this sector do not eliminate the need for presence. In a nursing home, in the care of the elderly, people shall be available. There shall be people available 24 hours a day. And that can't be achieved by the kind of productivity development that you have at Toyota in Gothenburg, where you don't have to be present all the time, and where you can make it more efficient by buying a larger machine. Therefore, my question is: how does the 6-hour work day fit into the strategy to ensure that the elderly care and health care system have enough hands in 10–15 years without cutting down on competitive business?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-18.ana.ud1898e182	That strategy fits in very well. One of the major challenges we face in Norwegian working life today is that we have 740,000 people out of work. There have been 140 000 more during the period set by the representative of Solberg in the Bondevik II Government. At the same time, 740,000 out of working life poses a challenge in terms of getting enough hands to work, whether it is in the care and care sector, in the school or in other welfare tasks that we have. What's our challenge in care and care is that this is a sector where absenteeism has not fallen as much as we have seen in other sectors of IA work. Why doesn't it? Well, among other things, because we've been thinking about a local economy for the last four years, for which Solberg's representative has a responsibility, which has led the municipalities to move to settlements and restraints within care and care, that people have jumped much faster, that the sick leave has gone up, and that people have fallen into part-time settings and have left the labour market earlier. The sum does not solve the challenges presented by the representative Solberg. What we've said is that we're forced to try another medicine than he that the previous government contributed. We want to see if working time affects the following: Will the sick leave go down? Do people in part-time jobs want to increase working time to full-time jobs? Do they want to postpone their retirement age? We have a great need for people to be more at work. Will we get more of the 740,000 out of work back to work? I think it's worth looking at other solutions than just whip, cutting and thinning, which was the previous government's medicine. We have a desire to do research on it, look at what has been done. It's an honest and good starting point for that kind of medicine, rather than ridicule it with millions and billions of dollars in relation to proposals that have never been made.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-18.ana.ud1898e189	The introduction of the six-hour working day will cost approx. DKK 191 billion. At the same time it will mean 20 pst. reduction in working time. This means that at the top of what comes from the wave in the care of the elderly, you have to have 20 pst. increase to have only the same presence in the care of the elderly. I've registered that Øystein Djupedal is going to set up a selection of dishonesty in research. I also think the Minister of Renewal should think through the arguments he has there. If she goes into the statistics, there was no more part-time work, but less part-time work during the previous government, and the working time share grew among those who worked. My main point is, and the Council of State did not say, that we have a lot of evidence that the 6-hour working day is not working as the Council of State says. After 16 years, the longest project in the care sector has been completed in Kiruna. Hasn't the Council of State intended to look at the consequences of what the Swedes have done? They say... [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-18.ana.ud1898e196	Well, that's exactly what we're going to do to house knowledge, on the one hand, which is against cutbacks in working hours, the negative examples, while on the other hand a corresponding one might say that those who are in favour were producing positive examples. And we have a perfectly clear example of both. So we've gone to four research institutions and challenged them to give us areas that we should go in and take a closer look at. The interesting thing is that there are now also attempts in the private sector. There's one also seeing that this is interesting. This results in results on the bottom line. It produces results in relation to increased productivity. This results from a reduction in sick leave. This gives results in relation to well-being at work, and results in relation to the level of naked customers, for example. by Toyota in Gothenburg and by Nardo in Trondheim. But the point is that the starting point of Erna Solberg is not the beginning of the government. No one has proposed a rough transition to the 6-hour working day. Besides, we couldn't do it, because it's the social partners that have to negotiate working time and pay. We have proposed limited trials.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-18.ana.ud1898e203	The President allows three follow-up questions – first Robert Eriksson.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-18.ana.ud1898e207	The main questioner was about the failed project in Kiruna, which has gone over 16 years. We have recently seen that LO leader Gerd-Liv Valla went out and said that you wanted Monday as a day off. Then it'll be interesting to know what the government stands for: is it that you're going to have Mondays off, or are you going to have a 6-hour day? At the same time, we see that the government in the autumn has made a tightening of the Working Environment Act. It should not be more appropriate to obtain flexibility in the labour market and in legislation that allows employers to organise more for employees, in order to achieve the greatest possible impact and flexibility, such as: The Toyota Group has tried?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-18.ana.ud1898e214	One has been at Kiruna's trial, which may say to be a failure insofar as one has not achieved the goals one sets. At the same time, we see a lot of positive effects. Let's look at both of these. One can in some ways not connect reduced working hours to having to work six hours. The government has not proposed it. We have said that we should look at different forms of reduced working time, whether it can be taken into account in relation to different objectives that are important, among other things. – as I said – if we reduce sick leave, we will increase the supply of work for those in a part-time job, postpone retirement, and get some of the 740,000 out of work into the labour market. For there is something that has our failure, the previous government is its policy, with the good support of the Progress Party, in this area. One has noised 115,000 more out of the world of work, so today, as I said, we have 740,000 outside. It's a bad work policy, it's a bad work policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-18.ana.ud1898e221	Laila Bavøy - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-18.ana.ud1898e224	It's unclear what the outcome of the 6-hours day debate will be. Yesterday, the LO manager changed the 6-hour day to the four-day working week. There are also different reasons for introducing the 6-hour day. Workers have focused on heavy and burdensome work, not least in women’s dominated professions in the care sector. Employers have been concerned about the possibility of increased productivity and lower sick leave. Another reason for the 6-hour day is the desire to facilitate the time clamp for young children’s parents. While the government parties are positive to the 6-hour day, they will liquidate the cash support because more women than men are at home with children. My question to the Council of State is this: Should the 6-hour day also be removed after introduction if more women than men go home from work early or take leave every Monday?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-18.ana.ud1898e231	The fun and most interesting thing about the private sector experiment is that there are very human-dominated companies that have tried. I think of Nardo Bil and Toyota, which are typically man-dominated, as well as a mentioned quarry that might start up. You know, a little bit of the point is to make this an equality project. The point is that getting a woman working part-time today to increase their supply of work will both strengthen their rights in the labour market linked to wage negotiations and strengthen their rights to retirement. Not least, I believe that this will lead to the man having to take a greater responsibility at home when both are in full-time work. So I don't see that this would be a disadvantage for equality – on the contrary. The fact that people also get a 6-hour day is great. They can then take a greater responsibility at home, and young people can, for example: have shorter periods of rest in the kindergarten when young children’s parents make their everyday life easier. That's good for equality, I think.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-18.ana.ud1898e238	Odd Einar Dørum – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-18.ana.ud1898e241	First of all, a question: the Council of State has at least publicly presented that we should have a six-hour trial, while I mean to perceive the Prime Minister to the point that it will in fact never be any of that. So I've heard the council say here today that it was basically not an attempt at a 6-hour day, but it was an attempt to reduce working time and flexible arrangements. I'm assuming that the Council of State will have a 6-hour trial, and I'm choosing to take it for what it is. I am very surprised by the background step presented by the representative Solberg, who is lying there with his facts. You threaten the free hands that we need to help the elderly, and you threaten them, for example. all the small businesses that carry our business. But even more strange to me is the fact that you choose such an uncertain reform attempt, which you expect will not happen. Why not instead bet on the kids who are struggling with ADHD, who are being thrown into the systems, and who the Council of State's colleague, Storberget, knows to fill up 40 pst. of our detention centres? That's where you should concentrate your efforts. So I'm really wondering about the priority-- buttering wide to everyone instead of putting those who really need it in focus.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-18.ana.ud1898e250	No, with respect to reporting: I think we should solve the challenges of people outside of work/social life, we need more than one measure. Working with ADHD and prison is a job the Minister of Justice is doing very well. It shall be a follow-up, and he shall present several good proposals in relation to it during the period. But then we also have to take responsibility for others. So when we have 740,000 people out of work on different social security schemes, it's a huge dilemma for just competitive businesses. For whom is it that pays for these social security benefits? That's us, through our tax haven and what we get in. We have to be able to solve it, get people out of social security and into work, so that they can contribute to value creation and get a social community at work. I want to think that exactly Doorum knows what it does to a human being that one is in a social community, like having a job and having a place to go to. We're now trying different forms to get people to work on. The IA agreement is at the bottom of this important work, but we also have to dare to try other ways to get 740,000 people into work.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-18.ana.ud1898e257	Stortinget goes on to the next main question – Jon Lilletun.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-18.ana.ud1898e260	In order to promote a good distribution of work between state councils, I have a question for the Minister of Development. Securing children and women's rights is absolutely central to eradicating poverty and promoting development. Unfortunately, it is precisely in these areas that we are far from reaching the UN's Millennium Goals, especially in the sub-Saharan countries of Africa. Particularly alarming is the feminisation of the AIDS epidemic and the lack of health care associated with the sexuality and pregnancy of women. It's alarming that 4 million children die during the four first weeks of their life. This requires efforts to promote equality and to strengthen the well-being and rights of women and children as a fundamental objective of our development policy. Newborns who die are perhaps the largest humanitarian crisis in the world today, and who have not received enough attention. There are four main reasons why the newborns in the world die. This is due to lack of oxygen at birth, premature birth, infections and congenital malformations. It also has a background in a poor nutritional condition of the pregnant woman. Women are, to a large extent, the main provider of family care in developing countries, especially in Africa. But once again, women are losing in the priorities of health policy. Every year half a million women die as a result of birth-related complications due to lack of qualified assistance and supervision. As a leak in strengthening women and children's dishes: When can we expect the ambassador for children's dishes to be in place in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, as it is previously warned? And when can we expect the new strategy for women's and gender equality development to come? The Bondevik II government announced that the strategy would be completed by the end of 2005. I'm assuming that the Minister of Development won't hesitate to make sure he gets on the table, but now he can get it ready.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-18.ana.ud1898e273	There are few things that please me more than the representative Lilletun's commitment that we should do more for women in general in society in Norway, but also in the third world. That's where it actually happens now, very positive things. Yesterday, a new female president was appointed in Liberia, and a new female president was elected in Chile. The new female president in Chile has even said she should have 50 pst. women in their new government. So this is a positive step from a woman's perspective. As I see it, women's issues are one of the areas where the world looks at Norway with considerable interest, in line with oil, peacemaking and some other areas, and that is precisely why it should be a characteristic of Norwegian development policy. I don't want to go in on dates on the questions Jon Lilletun was about, but yes, we're going to come back with a clear strategy on how Norway can do more for women's issues in poor countries. And -- yes, we're going to do more when it comes to questions about children. So the representative Lilletun raises a very important question, and it's the AIDS epidemic, which is becoming more and more a female epidemic. Women are hit hardest in many dimensions of that epidemic. There, the new government will change its course somewhat in relation to the previous government. That's because we don't believe in the strategy that some big countries stand for, that abstinence can be a dangerous path, or then a major instrument in the fight against AIDS. We think condoms, contraception, are the main instrument. We think decriminalizing abortion is also important in such a question. We have nothing against people being abstinent; it is their own free choice. But we believe, on the basis of this government's knowledge of human nature, that it is hardly the most important instrument in the fight against AIDS and HIV. I even believe that the representative Lilletun really agrees with me on this issue. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-18.ana.ud1898e283	I do believe that the knowledge of human nature is fairly equally distributed among the parties. I thank the Council of State for the answer, but I thought he was talking something away from the main focus that I had, even though I shared that commitment. [[Laughter]] I think he was also in danger of describing the previous government's strategy quite wrong if the only strategy she had was abstinence. So I repeat the question. It is a decision to have an ambassador for children, and it is an important measure. I assume that the Council of State has some thoughts – if he can't figure out a date, at least say something about how close it is. And likeins when it comes to the women's and gender equality strategy that was supposed to come in 2005. Well, we've got a government shift, but there can't have been any stoppages in the Department of Development? I therefore asked that the Council of State be a little more specific about it. Then we get back to the new strategies, where the Council of State announces a new course. [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-18.ana.ud1898e288	As regards the ambassador for children's rights, I will come back with an answer to that question very quickly. I can't answer that right now, to be concrete. As far as the many strategies are concerned, I believe that we now have 20–25 different strategies of various kinds for development policy. Having so many strategies is basically the same as having no strategy. Only when you choose to say that something is more important than anything else does you have a strategy. So what I want to do is come back with a much more action-oriented plan in some selected areas -- and women's questions are one of them -- where we say that this is what we're going to try to do, rather than coming up with relatively orderly documents in almost all areas of life. Women’s issues – yes, we should focus primarily on the issues where Norway can have influence in the world, because the rest of the world looks at us and is interested in what we do. It concerns oil and energy, the environment, peace mediation and women's issues. The rest of the world looks at us as relatively far gone.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-18.ana.ud1898e295	There will be three follow-up questions – first Morten Højlund.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-18.ana.ud1898e298	The situation of women in many developing countries is worrying. They are affected by poverty, and they are affected by cultural and religious performances that put them in a difficult situation. Norway is a heavy development policy player. Have we used our weight to fight for women's rights? And can we use our weight? Can we press these countries? It is my challenge to the Minister for Development that when there is money from Norway to the Treasury in these countries, they must also be in charge of a policy that we can defend here at home.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-18.ana.ud1898e305	I would argue that under changing regimes – not always with the full support of the Progress Party – Norway has made significant efforts to promote women’s issues internationally. Gro Harlem Brundtland was the first to introduce what was called a women's government. My predecessor, Hilde Frafjord Johnson, made a significant effort to promote women's issues in development policy. So yes, Norway has been at the head of this area, but that doesn't mean we can't do any more. When we decide what to do more, we need to have a concrete, detailed action plan on how to address this in international forums, how to get it done in our direct aid cooperation with the Third World country, and we also need to have the element that we can actually learn something back, that we don't just have something to learn away.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-18.ana.ud1898e312	Finn Martin Vallersnes – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-18.ana.ud1898e315	The Norwegian Institute of Urban and Regional Research and its partners have recently concluded their evaluation report ‘Evaluation of the Strategy for Women and Gender Equality in Development Cooperation [[1997-2005]] ‘The evaluation of the women’s strategy for Norwegian development cooperation shows a very critical follow-up to the Storting decision that gender equality should be one of the main pillars of aid.’ The question then is: what will the Council of State actually do to give a leverage to women and gender equality in Norwegian aid and development policy? I think in the answer he has so far shown what is happening around the world, and that one is still on the policy-making plane.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-18.ana.ud1898e325	I think what Mr Vallersnes is pointing to is right; precisely this is the fact that there have been so many strategies. They've been so rich in words. They have tried to embrace everything rather than trying to be very specific about how Norway can affect the world, how we can influence the UN, the World Bank, the multilateral structures, which, at the end of the day, set the framework for what will be women's living conditions around the world, and how we can directly influence our bilateral relationship with developing countries. Instead of being very specific about this, there have been very word-rich strategies. It is true, as Vallersnes says, that there have been evaluations where not everything you have done has been a huge success. This does not mean that there has not been much good work done by previous governments of various kinds, including by the previous government, but we can do more in this area. We just have to be much more specific about what to do, in our dialogue with third world countries, in our work in the UN and in the World Bank, where the big frameworks are being set. Finally, I must also say that we should not forget... [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-18.ana.ud1898e334	Time's up. Odd Einar Dørum – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-18.ana.ud1898e339	I am grateful that my colleague and city commissioner Lilletun set the tone and pressed this. It probably also appreciates the Council of State. I assume that the government continues with intense work to stop the slave trade with women and children, trafficking. I'd like to ask the Council of State to take along their thinking whether we don't also have to supplement the Convention rights internationally to stop "gendercide", the fact that girls are taking off days because they are girls. But that's not where my question will come. With regard to the main issue of women's situation, and as the representative Lilletun related to AIDS, we know that in very many situations AIDS is spread by the spread of the infection from mother to child. Some of what we actually know in the world today is that we have drugs to stop this transfer from mother to child. My specific question to the Council of State is: What will the Government do to put pressure on these drugs to actually become available? This may be particularly true in the southern part of Africa, where the epidemic has a violent effect, and where it is directly destabilising for any social development.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-18.ana.ud1898e348	First, I would like to thank the representative Dørum for addressing a very serious question. It's not just a woman question, it's a question that has to do with all of humanity's evolution. As the BBC television report this day showed, it is in important countries, for example: India is becoming a whole industry to find out if there are boys' children or girls' children who will be born, and then choose away the girls' children for the benefit of the boys. Anyone who thinks a little ahead will understand the consequences for a country of having a significant change in the gender balance between children and youth. So that's an incredibly important question. When it comes to the last thing, positive things happen. Former President Bill Clinton just signed an agreement with the medical industry to try to obtain cheaper medicines for southern Africa. These are questions that Norway will address in all contexts. We want to put pressure on the medical industry through our contributions and through our support for the health care system in poor countries. We're going to make sure people don't die of diseases that it's possible to cure. It's a shame, of course, that people in almost the third world die of a disease that you can cure here in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-18.ana.ud1898e356	The stork goes to the next main question, from Morten Höglund. For information on Stortinget, the main questions will also be asked by Lars Sponheim and by Finn Martin Vallersnes
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-18.ana.ud1898e361	I'll have to ask the Minister for Development a question. More than a year has passed since the tsunami disaster in Asia. The world set up with money that never before, and the acute distress was largely managed. In the case of more permanent assistance, such as: to new dwellings, the situation is very variable. Much of the money and much of the help has not come to the poorest. Many still live in tents and temporary sheds. For example, they are missing. fishing boats and equipment for reintroduction or reintroduction. They're sitting without anything to do, simply. On this occasion, Norway chose to channel much of its help through the UN in order to achieve more efficiency and better coordination. On December 23, last year, the Financial Times reported that UN organizations use 18 pst.–32 pst. of its tsunami payments for administration and other expenses. At the same time, several of the United Nations organisations refused to provide transparency in their accounts. Does the Minister for Development think this is satisfactory? If the answer is no, what will the Council of State do to make this better, so that the help we channel, whether it's through the UN – which my question concerns – or it's through other sources, becomes optimal?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-18.ana.ud1898e377	First, I want to give the representative Höglund a personal honor because he has shown a great personal commitment to these questions. He's just come back from Sri Lanka. I assume that he has visited the tsunami bordered areas and has thus gained a unique insight into what is the real situation in the many coastal communities of Sri Lanka. He has not just been reading about this in Norway. It's very affordable and great. I don't think there's any doubt that there's an excessive administrative share in the United Nations system. The UN should be debureaucraticised. It should be more effective. Many of the proposals for UN reform that have been put forward have just that objective. We in Norway will do what we can to achieve a more effective UN administration. Of course, it is not acceptable not to have access to accounts. If there are any specific cases of this, I'm more than prepared to take it up. Norway and this government are for transparency and transparency in all questions. Organisations or countries that are unable to provide transparency on the part of Norway are not nearby beneficiaries of Norwegian assistance. It's going to be full transparency, just to show that the money is spent in the most reasonable way. Having said that, I would say that there is no other way but through the UN to get the necessary coordination of aid. In the first two months, I think there were 50 heads of state, presidents and leaders who came to Sri Lanka. All expected red runs, everyone had their own project, and everyone brought their own TV cameras to show what they did for the tsunami victims in Sri Lanka. It was similar elsewhere. If you hadn't had the UN to coordinate this, all the volunteer organizations and all the countries would have run in their own direction, and the situation for the victims would be much more difficult. But the UN must be red taped out and operate more effectively and transparently, as the representative says.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-18.ana.ud1898e390	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. I would like to cooperate and provide information on these questions. I visited Sri Lanka last week. Even in the areas that are said to have received the most assistance, the situation is hopeless. The overwhelming majority still live in temporary sheds, tents or camps. The prospects for permanent housing are not there, although the money is initially in the system. It's a rather desperate situation. State Council Solheim will visit Sri Lanka next week to work on the peace process. But these things need to be seen integrated, because the humanitarian situation in the country needs to be addressed and resolved in parallel. Will the Council of State address these questions when he visits Sri Lanka next week, to click on, so that help can be better organised?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-18.ana.ud1898e399	In the case of Sri Lanka, which is the tsunami country I know best, I think you could say that the first part of the help was a great success. None of those who survived the tsunami itself were affected by diseases. They were given temporary housing in a relatively short time, i.e. tent, flashlight or other accommodation. The immediate emergency was handled quite well – even very well. On the other hand, it has unfortunately been a lot slower to get people living permanently, get fishermen back to the sea and get all the many small retailers who had their shops along the coast back into business. There are also political difficulties in Sri Lanka. The political parties do not always have the ability to cooperate well enough to find general solutions to these issues that are in the interests of the country. So there are not only problems with the UN and the international community, there are also internal difficulties in Sri Lanka. As for my trip to Sri Lanka next week, I'm going to focus on the peace process. Sri Lanka is now so close to external violence that the total focus must be on preventing them. [[President clubs]] If one fails to do so, the tsunami victims will be the victims of a new and perhaps even worse disaster, namely further violence, even possibly war. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-18.ana.ud1898e408	The President will ask for respect for the speaking time. There will be three follow-up questions – first Finn Martin Vallersnes.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-18.ana.ud1898e413	I noticed with interest the statements of the Council of State a little while ago that he will specifically follow up on organisations that do not provide transparency and show transparency in how the funds are used. Two days ago, on 16 January, VG was able to make a statement that the only large organisation that refuses to provide insight into how the tsunami products have been used. They received internationally more than DKr 13 billion. How problematic is this for the Council of State? What will the Council of State actually do with the Red Cross?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-18.ana.ud1898e420	Since I am not familiar with that essay – I came back last night from the paper commission in Egypt and have not read VG in the meantime, which is certainly a big mistake – I will not comment on the special issue. However, in general, both voluntary organisations, the United Nations system and others who manage money either collected by the majority of people or given over the tax bill in the various contributing countries must show maximum transparency. The only way we can ensure that there is sufficient trust among people, whether it be taxpayers or voluntary contributors, is that people know that the money is spent in the best way. It's going to be done wrong – it's not. There are errors in all areas of society, but we need to know that organisations are doing their utmost to manage this in the best possible way. And one way to do that is that there's total transparency, so that the critics can see what's happening, and that one can thus help organizations improve. This government wants as much transparency as possible in as many areas of life as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-18.ana.ud1898e427	Jon Lilletun – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-18.ana.ud1898e430	I would like to congratulate the Council of State on the work on Sri Lanka for the week. He has made an important effort there and will certainly do so now as well. But I would challenge him to take with him the perspective that the representative of Höglund had, that an important part of the peace process is working to build up that country. So even though the main focus is on the peace process, it's important to have it with the second part. My supplementary question goes into a slightly different field. ‘A quiet tsunami is on its way’ in Africa, said the former Minister for Development. The new government transferred significant funds from Africa to the United Nations system, a system that is not open when it comes to how money is spent. Shouldn't it be the order that one implements the projects that one actually has from Norway's side, that one keeps up the promises to Africa, and that one must work parallel to getting the UN more open, before one transfers more funds to the UN?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-18.ana.ud1898e438	First of all, I would say that this government has not been in favour of any reduction in real resources to Africa. We had this up in the debate on the budget before Christmas. There are no reductions in real resources for Africa. On the other hand, there are re-priorities between different items that go mainly to Africa. Then I just have to say, help me! We're not sitting on all the insights. If there are non-governmental organisations, the United Nations system or others that do not practice the necessary transparency, we are all ears to get information about this, so that we can take it up and contribute to greater transparency. Openness is crucial, including: in the fight against corruption both in countries and organisations. Finally, since this is an opportunity to talk about Sri Lanka as well, there are enormous expectations that when I come to Sri Lanka next week, I'll almost solve the problems in a fairy tale. There has been a series of acts of violence in a very short time, and it is important now to understand that this cannot be solved in the very short term. [[The President clubs.]] We can contribute a bit from the Norwegian side to keep the parties from going further in the wrong direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-18.ana.ud1898e447	Øyvind Waksdal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-18.ana.ud1898e450	The UN is an important development partner for Norway, but as the representative of Höglund was concerned about his main question, the United Nations and its organisations are very expensive, and a lot of money goes with bureaucracy and operations. Norway is a major and growing contributor to the UN system. Does the Council of State really think that this is well spent money, or should the Council of State now consider other and more effective channels for the Norwegian emergency aid and assistance work?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-18.ana.ud1898e457	We continuously assess all possible channels for Norwegian aid work, but that is for political reasons we believe the UN is so crucial. The UN is not only crucial as an aid operator in many third world countries, the UN is crucial for us, because Norway is a small country. Small countries depend more than large countries on an international legal order and an organised world. Only the UN can set standards that are respected by the world community. It's just the United Nations, for example. on behalf of the world society, a war is acceptable or unacceptable, and it is the UN that sets standards for a number of the areas we have spoken about here today: human rights, women's issues, etc. So for all these reasons, we want to strengthen the UN. But part of that reinforcement is to demand less bureaucracy, more efficiency, better money management, greater openness in the United Nations system and also to get more Northmen into the United Nations system, because we think it can also contribute in the right direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-18.ana.ud1898e462	Then we go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-18.ana.ud1898e465	My question goes to the Minister of Justice, and the theme is privacy. It is easy to see that in different ways it is going to be difficult for us to adopt a principle of privacy in the near future. There's a lot of reasons for that. I can mention some areas that we see are going to be important both for government and for greatness. This applies within the healthcare system in terms of patient registration — whether reservation options or not — and other registration within the health system, and who can use this information. This concerns the debate in which the Council of State has participated on the use of DNA registers and who should be required to submit information to a DNA registry and how it should be used. This concerns the debate on electronic footlinks, both for bad men and for people with diseases that a person wants to take care of – noble purposes, but which in some cases contribute to the threat of privacy. And not least the technology we now know is going up with a high degree of precision, in which Norway also participates in Europe, with the development of Galileo, a very precise European satellite monitoring system, which we already know in 2007 will be mandatory on new cars, and which, perhaps from 2009 – according to EU plans – will be on all cars, which will remain under constant surveillance or set up electronic tracks. Well, for all of these, they're made out of good intentions. It's possible to defend everyone. They're good for the people. But then there's also the sum of all of this that the head of the Data Protection Agency has called the good intentions tyranny. Does the Council share the concern of the Left about the many opportunities for impaired privacy ahead of us? And since there is a question hour where praise is distributed – I know that the Council of State has had a personal, strong commitment – will he contribute to furthering this also in his work as Council of State?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-18.ana.ud1898e474	I almost want to ask for extended speaking time. It's a huge field being drawn up by the representative Sponheim. But it's very affordable that it's drawn up, and I'm glad that we have actors, among other things. in Storting, which is brave enough to just draw up the privacy aspect. Me and the Government want us to have a debate on the question of what the reality of privacy is really going to mean, and I believe that the result of such a debate can quickly be that in many areas there is actually no conflict between privacy considerations and the ability to operate, among other things. effective fight against crime. I believe that it is important that we keep pressure on the dimension that goes on, among other things. Methodology, DNA use and health care records, also mentioned, which state that we do not want to increase the overall monitoring pressure in society unnecessarily. I think that's crucial, because it's also about the security that people have to feel, and that's very much related to the insecurity that people have, among other things. on crime. In many ways, we cannot play away much of the privacy that people have felt in Norway, and that people will feel in the future, by giving, among other things. the police so intrusive methods that they feel that privacy is threatened. That is the background to the fact that this government has also been restrained in relation to the wishes that appear and often in, among other things. the media, in relation to police needs, inter alia: The health record, where we've said that there's a very fundamental limit, which we'll be careful to approach at all. In terms of the question of the desired increased use of methodologies compared to, for example: trafficking in human beings, trafficking in human beings, it is important that we at least look at one context. And the Government wants – and will to a great extent follow up the intentions of the previous government on this – a very strict back-testing of the new methods we are now granting, so that we can see if they work, before we are committed to expanding them in relation to new methods. In this way, I believe that we also address the representative’s question that privacy concerns should be weighed heavily in the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-18.ana.ud1898e483	I thank you for the answer, and I am happy for this real commitment and the obvious transparency that the Council of State has in these difficult questions of principle that this represents. It is true that technology is now so fast that we are faced with a theoretical possibility of eradicating crime in society, in the sense that every human being is being monitored at all times. But it's a society I'm sure that both the Minister of Justice and I myself will have great concerns about living in, because it's probably not going to be a good society. Then we have to find the good balance between privacy and combating crime. And it's often hard to take these debates when you're in the middle of the issues in question. They have to be taken on a principle basis, and we have to dry up for the principle. One important clue in the meeting with many of the difficult issues ahead of government and state council within privacy is to facilitate anonymous alternatives for those people who want to delete their tracks or who do not want to be in the health register or what it might be. It could be a very good, principled test that privacy keeps track of the work we're doing in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-18.ana.ud1898e492	I am pleased that we have parties in Stortinget that will also support the Government when we have to have ice in our stomachs in relation to current events outside, and where new methods are required most of the day from some tabloid lookup. We need that in this debate. In this way it is very comfortable not only for privacy, but also for a Minister of Justice to know that we have such a drag help in Stortinget. I now want to highlight in particular the question of DNA, where the government has clearly indicated that it wants an extension of the DNA register. There is a very important debate about who should be registered in the register, and about the criterion of being convicted, if in many ways one has played so closely with one's own privacy that one must accept to be registered. However, the issue of the right to be deleted after a period of time is certainly important in relation to the issue of future privacy, including for the convicted. Again, this is a balance between the Government's intention to discover and solve more crime, and to provide privacy for the offended, so that they also receive reaction and compensation. I'm sure we'll be able to cope with that balance, especially with the good drag aid we're now receiving from, among other things. the Party of the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-18.ana.ud1898e501	The council asked for extended speaking time, but he didn't get it. There will be three follow-up questions – first Jan Arild Ellingsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-18.ana.ud1898e506	I thank the representative Sponheim for an interesting recording and the State Council Storberget for an interesting answer – so far. I guess there's no doubt that the privacy debate is one of the things that affects us the most. Some people ‘frustrate themselves green’ in order to use such a concept, because the police are not able to access — while others are struggling to protect the personal sphere. It is certainly true that this balance point is difficult to find. My challenge to the Council of State is as follows: To what extent does the Council of State believe that much of this is due to a lack of knowledge in relation to the possible extension of the transparency to which the authorities have access and how it should be used? Because it is well that much of that concern, at least as I see it, is simply due to a lack of knowledge about how this should be used. I assume that everyone agrees that abuse should be banned, but that transparency should and should be used where it makes sense, inter alia. in the fight against crime, as the Council of State has mentioned. You shouldn't, among other things. focus on external information, so that there is no real suspicion of its use?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-18.ana.ud1898e518	The media debate is just a type of debate where all those involved in the debate need more knowledge. In this way – if the representative is thinking about lack of knowledge in relation to participating in a debate – I absolutely believe that we need more debate and more knowledge here. The government now wants a post-control of the methodology by, for example: Space listening and other very intrusive methods that people can be subjected to, and that we may only respond to when we are unjustly exposed to them. When we have to post-control it, it's just to be able to give more knowledge – not just in relation to the question of whether it's being used correctly, but actually also whether it's being used effectively. One of the reasons why the government in the current year wants to bet on more funding to the police than the previous government is that the police should be able to make use of the methods they are given permission to do. It would be pointless if we adopted new methods here in the belief that we should discover more crime. The post-control that is now going to take place, I believe, will bring more knowledge into a very important field.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-18.ana.ud1898e527	Kari Lise Holmberg – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-18.ana.ud1898e530	The annual report of the Data Protection Supervisor for 2004 shall be processed by Stortinget shortly. In this Annual Communication, the Data Protection Authority expresses the fact that the current technological developments have put privacy considerations under pressure and that some debates and clarifications will need to be taken. In the context of the Battle of the Rescue Company in 2005, Georg Apenes of the Data Protection Authority stated publicly that in some areas Norway has loopholes in the legislation allowing both companies and management to monitor and control in an improper manner, inter alia. employees. In Norway today, data collection, storage and use of information are both possible. Then there is the possibility of abuse, and it gives us challenges. My question will then be: Will the Council of State ensure that the Stortinget is presented with a case that clarifies and improves the legislation and that the interests of privacy are better safeguarded in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-18.ana.ud1898e539	The answer is yes. The government is working on the question, including: in the case of back-testing of data protection legislation. We do a similar back-testing, which I had to do with the previous question, in terms of methodology. I must say that I welcome the continuous input of the Data Protection Authority in relation to the privacy debate and precisely the relationship that the representative draws up, warmly. You not only set a very important agenda, but you also come up with important insights into how to solve these problems. Data protection has also been so pragmatic that in many of these cases it has been possible to balance considerations and arrive at a conclusion, so that we can achieve the effective balance. With regard to employees’ rights — and to the extent that employees’ privacy claims — there is obviously an important challenge here with which we need to get back to the Stortinget in the form of regulation. I have also announced in the past that it will be appropriate to look at possible legal restrictions that provide employers and others with less opportunities, among other things. snooping in e-mail.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-18.ana.ud1898e548	Ola T. Lånk – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-18.ana.ud1898e551	It is agreed that interference with data protection should only take place where this is strictly necessary. A low level of surveillance gives people most freedom, but it also gives criminals the freedom to commit criminal acts that violate the freedom of law-abiding citizens. Norway has so far fallen at a rather moderate level in relation to the use of expanded police methods. We think that's wise. But it is also wise to be open to take even more stringent measures to improve protection against cynical and well-organised criminal environments. In the debate on privacy and the use of methods, it may also be relevant to look to other countries — how they deal with the balance between freedom and control. Norway itself has to assess where borders are to be set, but we have to avoid becoming a country that is provocative of criminals. My question is: How does the Norwegian Government assess data protection in relation to others in Europe, and how does the Government work to contribute to equivalent legislation in this important area?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-18.ana.ud1898e562	I would like to say that we assess the level of monitoring in Norway as moderate. However, in some areas, Norway is not necessarily particularly different from some other comparable nations — we are neither weaker nor stronger. The government is concerned that we're just finding our own place in this. The challenge is not primarily that we should be equal to other nations in every respect, but that we should find a level of monitoring and methodology that benefits the crime scene that we have. In this way, I feel that we are following up where the previous government and Minister of Justice Dørum did an affordable job, precisely in relation to balancing these considerations. The background for this is that many of the nations that have a very high level of surveillance, and that are also actually following with a high level of punishment and are tough, are struggling with a high level of crime. There is not necessarily consistency between being tough on monitoring and having a low level of crime — so here we can get a win-win situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-18.ana.ud1898e569	Let's move on to the last main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-18.ana.ud1898e572	I have a question for the Minister of Development. Not to come back to his papacy mission in Egypt, but before he left, he was going to say to the World Gang on December 23rd: ‘It is a very encouraging development that several countries in Latin America choose left-wing presidents and governments.’ He then called for closer cooperation with socialist leaders, and since he is Minister of Development, we have to assume that it is aimed at increasing Norwegian aid. The question is: To whom? Who could it be? Is it Cuba – where the dictator Fidel Castro was re-elected no later than 2003, with 100 pst. by the votes – that suppress the opposition and that boycott Norwegian diplomats? Or is it Venezuela, where Chavez abuses the people's trust and oil resources to suppress the opposition, the press and the rule of law? Or is it Bolivia and the newly elected President Morales, who has Castro as the main role model, and who allied himself with him and Chavez immediately after the election?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-18.ana.ud1898e586	After all, there is a left wind blowing over the Latin American continent, the last symbolised by the election of the female president in Chile. Norway has been blessed with a centre-left government, and it seems that Latin America is also blessed with different variants of centre-left coalitions – an important country that Mexico might expect to have a left-wing president after the presidential elections during the year. This is clearly an important and interesting development. As I see it, it is absolutely vital for Norway to contribute to its keeping in a democratic path. I share many of the concerns expressed here about development, for example. in Venezuela. Although I have been on paper in Egypt, I have not been able to avoid noticing that in the meantime in Norway there has also been a debate about whether you should boycott or not boicotte regimes with which you are not fully satisfied. The clear view that has been expressed by the great government on this occasion, namely that we want a dialogue on a boycott, must, of course, also apply to Latin America. Even in Latin America, I think dialogue is the way to go towards the left-wing regimes that are not in a sensible, democratic path. What countries Norway might expect to provide assistance to, we need to assess – a process has been initiated to do so – I think hardly Cuba is one of them. What it's going to be about is, for example, to contribute to the rational use of oil resources. The previous government launched a very sensible project in which Norway will contribute information and knowledge on how we have managed oil resources in a sensible way. It may be some kind of assistance that is needed. The issue of indigenous peoples issues, where Norway also has experience, may generally concern the Norwegian welfare model and welfare state, for which there is a significant international interest, not least from the centre-left regimes that we now see in Latin America.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-18.ana.ud1898e593	This is as far as a situation we're getting used to. But also in this case it only went 24 hours before the central party of Åslaug Haga moved out, actually on Christmas Eve, and took a distance from such a romanticization of the left-extreme regimes in Latin America. It also makes us ask in this case: What is the Government’s attitude? Will the government really take aid from poor countries in Africa and break the UN's Millennium Goals and give them to party friends and partially undemocratic regimes in Latin America?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-18.ana.ud1898e599	No, we're not going to take a single penny from Africa. There will be room for increased assistance in the years to come – this government aims to pass 1 pst. GDP. After that, we're going to increase further. There is no need to take anything from Africa to initiate projects to help Latin American regimes develop a sensible way of dealing with their oil resources, welfare state issues or indigenous issues. We're not talking about transferring totals or hundreds of millions of dollars to Latin America, but about developing individual, hopefully successful projects to support some of the new left-wing regimes. As I said, they're very different in character. In some countries, the democratic process — Venezuela is such an example — may be called into question, but many of the others do not have a single question mark — Uruguay, Chile, Brazil and Mexico, to name a few.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-18.ana.ud1898e604	There will be four follow-up questions – first Morten Højlund.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-18.ana.ud1898e607	I would like the Minister for Development to comment on the principle, which I suppose we – hopefully – agree on: it does not matter to a Norwegian minister and to a Norwegian government what political colour it is on the head of another country, provided that it is democratically elected. The Norwegian Government has no views whatsoever on or special interest in whether it is a socialist or conservative head of state.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-18.ana.ud1898e612	Yes, Norway is, of course, really, sensible and factual to all regimes, regardless of their colour. But it is not uninteresting from a developmental point of view if a regime comes to power on an unequivocal programme to lift up the poor in its country and ensure that the natural resources of the country benefit all its inhabitants, not just a rich, small elite. What we now see in Latin America is that a development model that was dominant in the 1980s and 1990s, and which you can call -- to use a very broad concept, there are many shades in it -- a neoliberal development model, now turns its backs on Latin America's voters in many different ways, to the benefit of regimes that have an ambition to lift up the country's poor. Then we'll see if they'll succeed or not. At least it's not uninteresting for Norway, and especially not for this government, to be able to help regimes lift up the really poor. Latin America is an area where there is a very, very rich little elite in some countries, but at the same time an incredible and ghastly poverty.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-18.ana.ud1898e617	No pay - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-18.ana.ud1898e620	I'm not going to go into what the Minister of Development sees as blessings, but I've noticed that this government has almost a fanatical, literal relationship with two scriptures. One says that one hand should not know what the other does, and the other says that your speech should be ‘yes, yes’ and ‘no, no’. But the original is clearly read so that it should be «yes, yes» and «no, no» at the same time. The Council of State did not answer the main questions raised by the representative of Vallersnes, namely whether his public opinions on the basis of which Norway chose close partners were an opinion on behalf of the Government, i.e. as a State Council, or whether it was merely an expression of SV’s general inclinations. Now you shouldn't rule out that this time it could be an accident at work that these two things are collapsing. Of course, it can happen. But was there an opinion on behalf of the Government?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-18.ana.ud1898e629	First, I'd like to say that the representative's salary and I disagree with a lot of questions. I also think that we very quickly disagree with the interpretations of the Scriptures. We'll have to do it on another occasion. What is crucial here is, of course, that the great funds, that is, the hundreds of millions of dollars spent on many development projects, will continue to go to Africa, to the United Nations, to the World Bank and to many of the things that they have done in the past. But this government is fully prepared to look at what different measures we can now contribute to helping Latin American regimes that have put the sheer poverty of their countries firmly on the agenda and that are trying to lift the poor people up there. Africa is much more marked by the general poverty of all. Latin American countries often have a significant, broad and important middle class, but many of them are characterized by a dim elite and also have very large slums. The lifting up of the last ones, we'll be ready to help.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-18.ana.ud1898e636	Jon Lilletun – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-18.ana.ud1898e639	I would also like to start by saying that I am recording that at least the Council of State Solheim and the signature have a somewhat different understanding of what is well-being, as he described the new government. But what is my follow-up question is: Is it not important to follow what our Norwegian development policy has, that there is good governance, anti-corruption work, and proper education policy and health policy to underpin who is to be supported, not what a random government name is? Well, there's a lot of regimes that call themselves something, but it turns out to be something quite different. So this is why, as the Council of State has said, is it also a signal that one will change what we have in Norway about, that it is these main principles that will underlie who is entitled to social benefits when it comes to development work?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-18.ana.ud1898e646	I am not going to go into a long discussion about the blessing, but I still got the impression that the representative Lilletun at least in the election campaign saw a certain opportunity that there could be a blessing with a new government in Norway as well. Then we will have to take the debate in four years' time on how much the blessing has been. We cannot operate with two standards – one for Africa and one for the rest of the world. The vast majority of Norway’s regimes today provide a lot of money — i.e. We do not give money to the regimes, but we provide assistance in their country to lift up poor people there – have corruption problems, have governance problems. Some of them have leaders who try to extend their ‘lifetime’ far beyond what is normal in a democracy. One of them has just arrested a significant part of the opposition. We can't have one standard for Africa and another for the rest of the world. My starting point is that we should help lift up poor people, even in countries where there are democratic problems. However, Norway should always be involved and contribute to the right direction — towards less poverty and more democracy in the countries where we contribute.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-18.ana.ud1898e653	Odd Einar Dørum – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-18.ana.ud1898e657	It is with a certain envy that I experience a state council in freestyle. But let me say it this way: if you first go free, you have to be very clear about what you have freestyle. During this oral question on Latin America, the Council of State has now said to support regimes, while in his reasoning on Africa, he says that these are the poor people to be supported. I thought in all simplicity that it was the poor people's situation that was the value of our whole aid policy. And the thorough round we had earlier on the situation of women was very heavy with that perspective. We cannot have an aid policy where the random sympathies or political antipathies of a Council of State or a political party must prevail. Then maybe it was to the seventh and last very get back, because then we would want everyone to be equal to us. We would have a demanding aid policy in many ways. I would therefore like the Council of State to confirm that it is the poor people who are the point, and not whether the Council of State is accused of regime change in parts of Latin America. And then I wish him every success with his first budgetary conference, as he has already proclaimed what he wants to achieve with aid. I wish him every success with the first budget conference in March.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-18.ana.ud1898e666	Thank you, for the last time and for the fact that the Left and Christian People's Party will also contribute to the pressure on the Government to achieve this goal. It's just out of the good stuff. On the other hand, yes, of course it's the poor people we're going to help. Norwegian policy is to contribute to more democracy wherever we go to try to do something: less corruption, better governance and raising the many poor. But when there is now a wave of choice over Latin America – it is the people of Latin America who have chosen a number of regimes that have set social goals on the agenda and that say they want to lift these people up – we cannot care about it. Norway then has to go in and see if we can do anything to ensure that these ambitions are fulfilled, so that poverty in Latin America is reduced, and that democracy is further rooted in Latin America.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-18.ana.ud1898e673	Case No. 1, the oral question time, is now over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-18.ana.ud1898e684	There is no record available. This way, today's maps are processed. Does anyone ask for the word in relation to § 37a of Stortinget’s Rules of Procedure? – The meeting is over.
