ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30380	Ladies and gentlemen, in front of the Serbian Radical Party, I have submitted an amendment to delete Article 3. Article 3 states: "People's rights within the meaning of this law are the rights provided for by the International Civil and Political Rights Pact, which signed and ratified the SFRJ, the rights and freedoms of man and citizen provided for in the 1974 SFRJ Constitution, the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia of 1992 and the 1990 Constitution of the Republic of Serbia." We see here that everywhere there are SFRJ, FNRJ, CJ, SKJ, you're nowhere to be found. Where that 2000, 2001, 2002, or 2003, or for civil rights -- that dark period of some of our history -- may have been more interested than today's government. It's particularly strange to mention the 1974 Constitution. It is a Ustasha-Balistic constitution, which was written by Ustasha-Balistic Bratija, a constitution that destroyed Serbian national interests and is now the basis for human rights here. The rights of the Serb people in Kosovo and Metohija were destroyed in 1974. Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija could only be hired if eight people were admitted to one company, only eight could be Serbs and seven Cypriots before that. If you receive less than eight, no Serb could ever get a job. Are we even talking about these human rights in that period? Are we perhaps talking about a period of key, when the key was employed, when it was determined by key? Either it was some human rights from those years and SFRY, FNRJ, or those years - 1974, etc.? Where is he here in 1945? Where is he in 1948? Where's 1968? Where's 1974? Where are they that year? Why is it taken in 1976 as a basis? You say you don't want this law to be retroactive, so you're 50% of the laws you've passed retroactively, and now all of a sudden this one, which might be the most likely to rely on that time of deadlock boxes, when the deadlocks were destroying and destroying the future until today, when we stayed blind for 60 years because of those deadlocks, that period obviously no one here is interested. Will those who have entered the National Bank, customs, schools, kindergartens fall under this law, whether they or their instigators, the employers will be responsible for human rights violations, which has automatically been incurring and taking away state property? Is it possible that those of you who released the charges against international law would be under the hit of this law... -...that they bombed us for 78 days? Only in one place in Banat, where one bridge was bombed, four people - workers who cut the fence after the bombing died of cancer in the last three years. If it was in our interest to drop bombs on our heads and that was human rights in the International Pact, then it certainly wasn't in our interest to be irradiated by the poor uranium. Someone mentioned the files yesterday, that's very interesting, that would be best to find. Who are these people? They're saying, husband-- woman in the east block, wife rattling out her husband, that would be good to know, if my rattling me, I'd cut her head off right now. (President: This is the fifth minute. ) Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30381	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? Here's a word from MP Radojko Petric.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30382	On behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, I have tabled an amendment to Article 3. A bill of this law. With this article, the Proposer prescribes what human rights are within the meaning of this law. I will quote this Article 3: "Human rights within the meaning of this law are the rights provided for by the International Civil and Political Rights Pact, which signed and ratified the SFRJ, the rights and freedoms of man and citizen provided for in the 1974 SFRJ Constitution, the 1992 Constitution of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and the 1990 Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. "Station 2. "If a violation of human rights has been established since 23 March 1976, as the day of the International Pact on Civil and Political Rights in the SFRY (now I stress this), and there is a contradiction between the provisions and internal law, the rules of the pact will apply. "It stands in the text of the Proposer. We Members of the SPS propose that this article be deleted, in fact, we have the same position on this article, as well as on the draft law in general, which was explained in detail by fellow SPS MPs in the debate in principle. It is necessary to bear in mind that human rights are universal and are guaranteed by our Constitution and the Charter of Human and Minority Rights and Civil Liberties. The meaning and scope of human rights cannot be established by this law, which is contrary to both the Constitution and the Charter. That a person simply does not believe that some law can subsequently prescribe that human rights violations have been committed by persons who have acted in accordance with the current constitution and in accordance with the applicable laws in Serbia and Yugoslavia. I'm asking a question - whose regulations should I apply now? The question applies not only to human rights regulations but to regulations at all. Let's look at it at technical standards. Our regulation says machines should be protected like that. In addition to all these measures carried out, the worker will happen to get hurt, even to die. Someone comes and says these standards no longer apply, those standards that our country has set, but that some world standards are in force, so someone who has not applied the world standards, even though they are not prescribed for us. The same case is in health care. Isn't it possible that the doctor acted with security, that he acted according to all the health regulations in our country, but it turns out that the World Health Organization has some other standard, and then the doctor is guilty of not treating the patient the way the World Health Organization prescribed. I think these are really absurd things. We must stand up for respecting our regulations. It's normal to advocate following the world's path, respecting standards and putting them into our regulations. Until something is incorporated into our regulation, it cannot be applied, no one can answer because he has not applied the world’s regulation, or that until then he has applied our regulation. What can the promoter say about all this? I really don't see a rational answer to this question. It is logical for this amendment to be accepted, that this member and the law in general are deleted because they cannot survive.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30383	Thank you. National MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, deputy president of the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group, spoke. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30384	Article 3 provides for what is considered human rights within the meaning of this law. In terms of this law, human rights can only be regarded as what is provided for in the Constitution and international conventions, which should be incorporated into our highest legal act, i.e. the Constitution, and nothing else. No other law can prescribe that there is a right if it is not regulated by the Constitution itself. This constitution still stands. I hope it's worth a little longer, that you won't make it, on your Sunday, to change it and destroy the country completely. But in that constitution, Article 9 still states that the judicial authority belongs to the courts. This, by the way, means that what this law provides - that through some committees formed on a proposal from the president of the state, something that would look like some of the courts, there can be no legal fact, because they are not foreseen by the highest legal act. This highest legal act, again, has left no space for anyone, nor for the National Assembly, to be able to regulate this matter in this way. You know exactly what courts do, what prosecutors do, what the National Assembly does, what the Government does. There's absolutely no place for a fourth branch of government. There is democracy, at least on paper, there is a political scene and there are elections where everything else happens in front of the public and with public participation. Everything else is unconstitutional. Those who would apply such a law would violate the Constitution and fall under that lustration themselves. I don't know how it's possible to choose this commission, that the members of that commission are working without, in doing so, having no constitutional authority to form such a commission without being themselves the object of lustration. Only courts can handle this kind of thing. For example, you can predict the need for lustration. But you could do it through some other form, so it could be some of the measures that courts in the ordinary procedure will say, if you think that's wise. I don't think that's wise, because democracy and it consists of being satisfied with the public of work, knowing about each of us, that all the press and all the media are available to you, that we can provide an answer to false accusations, that we are not hiding behind the fact that we are MPs, so we have immunity, or we are members of the government, so we have immunity; then when we sue, it's not important immunity, and when we're sued, we call for immunity. So everything needs to be in front of the public, and then we don't need any short-circuited courts. The people end it after a brief procedure, because they get the right picture. Of course, we are not open to the media but work under censorship and self-censorship and create the wrong picture of many personalities and political parties. There's a danger of being led astray. But there's always a way, maybe it takes a little more time or a little more work to get to the truth.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30385	It's the fifth minute.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30386	We still have the right to speak, don't disturb me. After the fifth minute, let me know that my discussion time is up.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30387	By the fifth minute, I have the right to inform you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30388	You let me know in the fifth minute, and now let me speak further.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30389	I'll inform you in five minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30390	Don't cut my time for discussion now. What do I care? I'm not a dead end, I'm wearing glasses, but I see a great watch. You see, I keep my glasses on my nose. Article 12 of the last position speaks of ensuring judicial protection of freedoms and rights guaranteed and recognised by the Constitution. How is this judicial protection provided? For starters, the stenograms we have from these sessions can be sent to this newly formed commission, the commission you will form under this law, so let it work on it for the next five years. She'd really have something to do.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30391	Does anyone else sign up for this amendment? Yeah. ) The speech is attended by MP Zarko Obradovic, president of the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30392	Members of the Socialist Party of Serbia have tabled a number of amendments to this law. Members of Parliament have proposed to delete certain members of this law because we believe that this law is absolutely political, regardless of the story of the applicant that the law looks at the future and so on. The provisions of this law, the contents of this law, everything contained in this short paper, and from "a" to "sh", say it is cheap political marketing aimed at eliminating political opponents, and of course members of the opposition. No matter what the story is, this is for us from now on. The essence can be seen in relation to the content of this law. We have suggested eradicating this member, even though human rights violations are mentioned here after 1976, when our former state ratified this document. I have to say that the documents adopted by Dad, so let's say, all the way back to the 1990s, and by the relevant international organisations, they didn't have that negative connotation and a negative assessment of the human rights situation in Yugoslavia. When Yugoslavia broke down, when the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia was formed, the tone changed and it gained absolute political connotation. Any law that should establish people's alleged guilt for violating human rights without a court ruling is not a valid law. Anyone being punished without a court ruling, that's the most flagrant form of human rights violation. Yesterday, several times, we mentioned all the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and the provisions of the Charter of Human and Minority Rights, which speak of the content of human rights, obligations and states and the rights of individuals. We have stated that it is logical that no one can be punished without the relevant decision of the court. We've also heard colleagues support it, and it's very specific data. We know this is an objectively one political document. The content of this law shows that there is no other substance but, on the basis of some subjective, haired data, expresses the measure of distance of individuals from public life. We think the whole law is bad, that this member, like other members, is not good, serves only as a formal basis for the law. We're interested in the next one. Will the future application of this law be sanctioned, besides the Socialists, and those of our former members or partners in the government, who are now in DOS, who left the Socialist Party of Serbia in 1996-1997, and are now telling us about the ten-year dictatorial regime? Will it be the ones from 1993 to 1997? were in the government of the Republic of Serbia, jointly implementing government policy, which were mayors of congregations and municipalities, cities, all on behalf of the SPS? Will they be, or will they be, their advisers, their associates, who are cordially teaching us morals, about honesty? Whether or not they will be subject to this law. The law is a miracle, elections are close, and justice is within reach. The law provides the basis for the lustration of anyone, so we'll see how the law applies. Human rights violations -- it's such a broad category that you can seduce whoever you want and whenever you want. The list of people who are listed here is so wide that few will be left out. What we're interested in is this selectivity, since we know we'll be the first to strike. Will our former members and former partners, who are now with you at DOS, Mr. Andric, be subject to this lustration? You are the promoter, and I have no one else next to you to ask or Mrs. Micic. You have to tell us. (President: 5 minutes. If it's necessary, I'll say the names afterwards, it's not unknown. We know the point, just to see what will be the scope of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30393	No more logins for the word on this amendment. The 3rd amendment was submitted by Parliament member Gordana Komic. Is anyone applying for this amendment? Here you are, the applicant for the amendment, MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30394	Ladies and gentlemen, the amendment to Article 3(2) provides for that position to be deleted. It's a triple message of the amendment that I suggest you make a positive statement about it. Article 3, definitely, defines what human rights are within the meaning of this law or in the general sense, and Article 2 says: "If a violation of human rights is established after 23 March 1976, as the date of entry into force of the International Civil and Political Rights Pact into the SFRY, and there is a contradiction between the provisions of the pact and the internal law, the rules of the pact will apply." Why do I propose to delete this provision? Repeat, triple. The first is to prove, with proof of paper, by seeking to delete this provision, that we have the hearing of objections about consent with the existing Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The second is to send a message that, if we want to delete this member, at the same time, in the future constitution of the Republic of Serbia, we want such a provision on the hierarchy of acts of international law and domestic law to be constitutionally determined. Third, I have a chance to give my dominoes to what is clearly defined here by argument as a misunderstanding of the human rights category. It's perfectly natural for our society and for the system we're building, but it's my obligation, as someone who belongs to the ruling majority, that the fears that exist because of the lack of understanding of human rights categories, I try to separate in this way. The law most generally refers to the human rights of man and citizen in the society we build and to the obligation of all on public affairs that these human rights of man and citizen take the most seriously into account, to safeguard their violations, if they want to deal with public affairs. Yes, this applies to all those who are now in public affairs and to all those who will be in public affairs in the Republic of Serbia in the future. It's normal that there's mistrust, because it's natural, because the suspiciousness is the features of intelligent people, and there's 250 of them sitting here, that they suspect that the application of this law will be what the law says. But it's not normal for us to dispute every law based on the fact that we don't believe in the ability of people in public functions in state institutions to really enforce laws. It's a lack of self-respect. What I want us all to do 250 together, to develop self-respect for all of us who are responsible for any public work, to infuse ourselves with others who are in public affairs, and to prove that the principle that the law must be equal for everyone, evidenceable in practice. This is the idea of the hierarchy of international legal acts and domestic legislation and of applying international legal acts in domestic legislation is an effort to become part of the European Union as a society and as a state, based on similarity. It's a huge job. The adoption of this law on liability for human rights violations is one stone on a long road, which we will walk on while we are together by consensus, hopefully, socially and politically, doing our jobs of joining the European Union. Every suspicion is required, every evidence of the one suspected of us is mandatory. I know that what I'm saying will not serve as evidence, it will continue to be checked, but this is what the congregations are for, that on this amendment, on the others that I have submitted, and they are all in that spirit, to see if we really want to be in line with the existing Constitution, whether this is what we want to give a message to the future constitution, and whether we are people who are responsible for the public affairs of all those who are dealing with Serbian citizens and citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30395	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) The applicant's representative accepts this amendment. Members of the 4th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Branislav Vakic and Hranislav Peric. Are the applicants applying for a word? Yes, the word has been given by MP Branislav Vakic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30396	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the Serbian Radical Party, I am submitting an amendment to the draft law on liability for human rights violations. The Serbian Radical Party is proposing to delete Article 4 of this Law. As you chose in 1976 (International Geneva Pact on Civil and Political Rights), and you did not, for example, mention 1943 - the bombing of Serbian cities by Anglo-Americans and the murder of tens of thousands of Serbian civilians; or in 1946 to 1948 - murder, arrest, kidnapping of property by communists; then in 1948 - the naked island and murder of thousands of Serbs on the Golo Island. Today there is fear in the people, because being a political inexperience or saying something against the government and the ministers of that government is crazy courage that can cost a lot. When today's occupier is present in our country, along with domestic traitors who create this country's politics, fear is inevitable. Seventy-eight days, America and their satellites bombed our country for no reason. Thousands of people have died, tens of thousands have been mutilated, and no one is responsible for that today. Is that a violation of human rights? Do human rights get violated when people get kicked out of work just because they don't belong to DOS? I'd say it's fascism. Is it a violation of human rights when the knife in the middle of the day and the front door of the Serbian Radical Party's wounded -- the fleshly board of the Red Star in Nis? Today in Nis "led" police stand a man close to each regime, known for the beating of Serbian volunteers and MPs of the Serbian parliament who on October 5th 1995 glued the city's centre with a flyer that said "Down Milosevic, down the Serbian government" etc. One of the witnesses of the unkind event, when the SRS MP was beaten, is today Serbia's Prime Minister, Mr. Zoran Zivkovic. The man who led the action under the orders of the Socialists and their leader from Nis Milet Ilic was soon removed, i.e. Retired, and upon arrival of DOS to power, he becomes the first police man in Nis. The citizens of Nis and members of all political parties wonder, where is this responsibility for human rights violations? As for us MPs in this congregation, we too have been denied many rights. For example, we punish ourselves for the spoken word in this congregation, there is no TV broadcast of congregation meetings, nor any parliamentary questions. The people chose us to criticise the government if it didn't work out well, but to see and hear it. At the time of the communist authorities and later the Socialists, MPs had a much greater right to represent the interests of citizens in the Assembly, i.e. their constituents. Also, not all MPs of this House have the same human rights. Several MPs in this house have no employment status, i.e. He's at the employment desk. It wouldn't be a big deal if it weren't for people with over 30 years of employment and more than ten years of active politics, as representatives in both parliaments -- federal and republican. But what our people say is "no one burned until dawn" or "get into their own bedpans." Let's start a business, let the people work so they can live. Don't trust the occupier, because he does everything he can to destroy us as an Orthodox people. On one occasion in Ivanjica in 1943, General Draža said in September: "We Serbs live and die for freedom. Let's throw away the chains and the shackles. "Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30397	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Hranislav Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30398	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to delete Article 4 in the human rights violation law. Article 4 states that the law will apply from 23. 3. In 1976, and I wonder why you didn't suggest that lustration cover all those who have violated human rights since 1903, either since 1918 or since 1941. My proposal is that the law states that lustration will take place since 5 October 2000, because since then human rights have been violated. The people built the congregation building, and you set it on fire, you tear it down. Workers build factories around Serbia, and Vlahovic takes it and sells it to them, and there is no money anywhere, and is there human rights violations there? It would be a long list if they made it for the past two and a half years, where all human rights were violated. According to what is proposed in the law on the use and violation of human rights is that the Human Rights Commission will replace crisis headquarters. What does it mean that the law will be applied since 1976? I've been thinking about why, so I've come to the conclusion that you've decided to do what was done, not in future times, because you don't have a solution for that. You've been in power for two and a half years and you're still only dealing with who did what in the previous period. My advice is to start working and to deal with and solve the problems of Serbian citizens. Another year and your term is over, and you haven't started yet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30399	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30400	Ladies and gentlemen, this member is a matter of retroactiveness and I will only speak from that position about this member, because it is difficult to add something more to the presentation of the Chetnik Duke Branislav Vakic. The provisions of this law apply to all violations of human rights, all of which after 23 March 1976, as the day of entry into force of the International Civil and Political Rights Pact, under the conditions laid down in this law. The last member of this law, Article 35(3), states that this law applies 10 years from the date of entry into force. So, it's not common here to be first in law, even in this last member where it's been spoken since the law begins, determines how long it lasts. We can say, but it's not usually said anything, because the law lasts until it's out of force, that is, until the law is passed on. I don't know what you mean by that, I guess you're counting on some of the years to come, which should be supposed to be years to join the European Union. It is indisputable that there is retroactiveness here, and the Committee has spoken of it, Mr Hiber, as the chairman of the Committee, has said something else, but well, that's on your soul, you can bring when you want and what laws you want, even unconstitutional; you bring laws for yourself, so they will apply to you. As citizens are equal both in rights and in duties, we are constantly talking about certain rights and we forget about the duties of citizens, and even those who are in some political functions, and that of the leading political functions, let's say the president of the parties or the more visible people known to the public, and then what about those who have called for desertion, there are those in your party, Mrs Pesic, so Vojin Dimitrijevic, can be listed as playads, but I do not want those who are no longer among us. They know who I'm thinking of. It's particularly worrying about the security of the legal order, and now I'm talking about this member of the law as if the law is even interesting from the position of possible survival, because he can't survive, he's unacceptable to us, but here's to tell you what additional arguments are for such sacracial provisions of the law. Judges who have tried by law, and even judges who will judge by these laws of yours now, which you have passed since 2000, or this commission that will rejuvenate by this law, judge, make some decisions, place certain personalities on the pillar of shame, do not work past the Constitution. If someone was judging by some law, whatever the law is, he was working within the Constitution and he can't put anything on his soul, because he couldn't decide whether a law would apply or not. It was brought by this congregation, mostly by the government towards Skuština. So, the government is a proposing, and there's some responsibility to be sought, but the government didn't beat us here with a stick so we could pass some laws. She's giving us a bill of law, it's ours to consider and say we will or will not. We've turned into a service here, we're just making laws the way the government wants, and that's what's wrong, which we don't know what our role in the country is. Our role is to control the government and make this country's policy, and the government only to implement that policy.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30401	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? There's no privacy. ) On Article 5 of the amendment in the same text, the MPs Milorad Mirčić and Marko Culibrk submitted. The word has been made by MP Marko Culibrk.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30402	Dear People's MPs, I suggested that this member be deleted, because this article as well as the whole law shows one great legal ignorance and whoever passed past law school knows how to make a law and what legal norm is. Also, this law shows great political rematch towards people in the past. However, it also shows major political manipulations for the next elections that will take place and this applies to individuals. But it is much more dangerous that this law has and intends to bring down institutions that are very important to Serbia as a state. As a very dangerous law for our country, it turns Serbia into a damn alley where it must prove you're innocent. So it's not your right to be guilty when the court proves it, but you have to prove you're not guilty. Article 1 states that violation of human rights is a criminal offence or another criminal act. This is an anti-constitutional and illegal principle, because someone's guilt can only be found by a court of law. This is where the fundamental functions of the executive, legislative and judicial authorities are mixed, because some commission can determine whether there was a criminal offence in the past, even though the court did not find it. Then, that antiquity, which is strictly regulated by law, no longer applies here, and this law undoes obsolescence. It's true, it's in the book, and it's in the record when someone's been punished, how many years old and who can be elected. By the laws that are now in force, it is clear exactly what functions one cannot perform, if he has responded in any way to the organs. Also, who will establish, who is the perpetrator of the crime, who is the instigator, the accomplice, the helper. There is a very broad range and the possibility that a commission which is not authorized to judge, whether or not someone has passed, offended someone and convicted by this commission and unable to participate in the next election. It is also very dangerous to Article 2 which aims to deprive a person of the right that belongs to him by law or to make it difficult for him to exercise such right, or to allow a person to acquire a right or benefit that does not belong to him under the law. This stance aims to tear down institutions in Serbia's state. This member is directed against the university, against the university, against the judiciary, against health institutions, against SANU. The only thing missing here is that you put on how you're going to lustrate the Serbian Orthodox Church. Of all the institutions that are listed here, it's the only thing missing and I'm really interested in how you're going to do it. I see you're trying to get involved in the lives of the church in some way. Now, between professors in colleges, doctors in health care institutions, between judges, among people in the state authorities, they're going to bring in very bad blood and determine which clan was right, whether some human rights have been annulled or not. Just take a question from the professor at college. When one professor has to determine which of the assistants will turn into a docent, there's only one place, and everyone else could say they've been damaged by human rights. Take all these institutions where there was the right of all employees to apply for an apartment. There were 200-300 applications for the apartment, and he can only get 10 or 20 people. Everyone will complain that they've been denied human rights. With this Article 2rd and 3rd, Serbian institutions will be crushed and I therefore propose that this law, which has very bad and dangerous intentions for Serbia, be withdrawn from the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30403	The word is made by the People's Messenger Milorad Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30404	In this article, it is not only the actions and tasks that are being disputed, as the proposer puts it, but it is disputed that one body that is called the Commission takes responsibility, i.e. taking over the jurisdiction of the judicial authorities, assumes the powers of other bodies which are clearly defined, clearly predetermined, by law and by the Constitution of this State, by individual authorities, and in particular by the very division of power. In fact, the commission needs to question who, by performing tasks and actions, has wronged human rights. Here you are, Mr. Andric, all functions listed. You've made the Chief of Staff subject to this. Where are your family traditions, Mr. Andric, committee secretary, when your law is retroactive? Where is your Secretary of the Union of Communists, who was neither an MP nor a minister, nor a Chief of Staff, but how he knew he was shortening human rights, making people stand up for prisons. You could hear it from family tradition, as some of us have heard from our families stories about how yours did. We listened to the warning, don't worry, children, your parents and grandfathers were illiterate, but when their children come and school then be careful. We're experiencing it, it's the children of these committee secretaries, these gadgets, next to the commissioners, and now they want to bring back to us who live in Serbia everything their grandfathers and fathers didn't get. Basically, this law reminds me of that teaching story about three envelopes. You know, when the newly appointed director comes to his office, he finds a work manual containing three envelopes on the table. In the first envelope it says, blames everything on the past, says it's black, that it's nothing, that it's bad, and by coming in, everything will be great, everything bright, there will be a rebirth. If this doesn't help, open another envelope. The second envelope says, blame the former director for everything. If that doesn't help you, open the third envelope, and in the third envelope, write a new three envelopes. This is the second envelope for you gentlemen. You have opened a second envelope and you are trying to make such bill that, by its very essence, by the act of the proposal, against the previous ones; so you have violated human rights, you are violating the Constitution of gentlemen, you are violating the charter, why you have adopted it, you have adopted it, your majority has adopted it. That charter has entered a new community and it is, whether you want it or not, above all acts. It's defined clearly. No, gentlemen, you care about spreading fear across Serbia. You live on the basis of fear. Don't live in error, there's one limit of fear in the people. When that fear line is crossed, then there is no more of that law, no more of that force, no more of your majority that will calm Serbia down. Instead of continuing to work on reform laws, to get the economy out of the crisis, what you found, and you found ideological unity. In Serbia, for a long time there was cancer of the early ideological difference between us. We've been separated for a long time by partisans and Chetniks. We don't share anymore. Now that's where we've achieved unity. Now together are the grandchildren and those who were in the partisans and those who were in the Chetniks. What do you want now? To share Serbia again. If that division is present in your heads, don't make us think how your head thinks. Your head thinks if it's necessary, like there's a marble in your head, so when you bend it at a favourable angle, you get that marble. There are more times when you can't get that marble to lie down with you, a clearing that's shaped like some grayish mass, Milka.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30405	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Zarko Obradovic, and then a folk letter from Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30406	This story of human rights violations is very interesting, because it shows absolutely double archaics in the consideration, treatment and practical resolution of this issue. The promoter is one of the members of the DOS coalition. The DOS coalition has been in power since 2000 at federal level, and since January 2001 at the republican level. We did, my colleague Marco rightly suggested that this member of the law be deleted. After all, we have suggested that the law is absolutely not accepted and contained the essence of this article as well. I must say that we, the Socialists, are fully convinced that there are double arches. We felt over our backs what it means when it comes to justice, justice, and justice. When the DOS says that to be respected, it has to work according to the law. There was no law. There have been countless examples of human rights violations over the past two and a half years without the ruling coalition looking back. There have been many events that should have been the subject of the work of the state authorities, which they were not. I consider my obligation to remind members of the congregation’s majority and the promoter of certain events that were not the subject of the work of the official authorities, which represent classic examples of human rights violations. We had a practical situation for members of the congregation's majority to tell us black on white, there are people witnesses, the law is true, everything, and you will see when there's a law on extraprofit, the first subject of this law will be members of DOS and the numbered people you and you. I'm not going to be correct because there is no Mr. Djelic, and if he were here, I would tell him what people he mentioned when he told us about the extra-profit and what DOS people should be subject to the extra-profit law and, of course, when the law was passed, when it started to apply, they were nowhere. This when he comes, as he says face to face, whom he mentioned, and to explain why he is not the subject of extraprofits, because as socialists and their partners have acquired great wealth and members of the then opposition, and the current authorities have worked in extremely difficult conditions, they did not have bread crusts and have acquired great wealth. So, colleague Culibrk suggested erasing this member, for the simple reason that we believe that justice, at least in the interpretation of the promoter, absolutely has double arches. We've had a lot of bad things going on since October 5th, and we've seen that the state doesn't want to intervene on official duty. Then, on October 5th and 6th 2000, the headquarters of the Belgrade SPS City Committee was attacked, the target of savage destruction of property and archive buildings and the place of unprecedented vandalism. The party's headquarters was first robbed in detail, then demoted, and then burned, so that the Belgrade city's fire crews intervened twice. On the same day, there was an incursion into the SPS room in Palillula, Old Town, Starry, with the abduction of the entire inventory and equipment. The office furniture was destroyed, and the stolen computer equipment was destroyed. Doors and broken windows were broken in Priboj, broken windows were taken to Priboj, valuable equipment was taken to Užica, busy rooms of the party and valuable equipment taken away, and then destroyed furniture and windows. In Lajkovec, the demoted rooms of the party, a hand bomb was dropped in Osec in the courtyard of the private house of the president of the local SPS organisation, in Nis attacked the headquarters of the City Committee, broken glass, in Raznje the official vehicle of the party, in Sreljjeg physically attacked officials, in Piroth and Dimitrovgrad broken windows, in Smederjev demolled and robbed equipment, in Čačka with colleagues of DOS activists and robbed part of equipment from the TV studio "S", owned by the SPS. We've met the state authorities about all this and none of this is unknown to them. We also informed the OSCE in the spring of 2001, to see how the democratic government is doing, implementing the laws, and how it has the same relationship with everyone and then someone comes and starts to convince us -- you know, this applies to everything, this applies to the current ones, this applies to the future. Please don't, we're not children. The law doesn't have to be passed.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30407	The word has a folk letter from Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30408	The second chapter of the law, as regards the forms and aspects of human rights violations as the basis of responsibility, speaks of general forms of human rights violations, special forms of human rights violations, violation of the right to privacy and special forms of human rights violations by violation of legal equality. As for this first one, as far as Article 5 goes, I'd just read Article 45. A constitution that says, "Be assured of the freedom of conscience, thoughts and public opinion." Who can forbid me anywhere, here in parliament, in the street, in the stands, in the rally, as a citizen, and especially as a MP, to say what I mean, and besides the Constitution, it's meant for every citizen to have the right to criticise the state authorities. It is normal that when an opposition politician publicly delivers his opinion, he sees as much as possible to strike at the heart of a political opponent, or bearer of power. There's nothing more normal than that, but when we talk like that, and especially we Serbian radicals, then the headlines in the paper start that we're a fascist organization, that we're a criminal organization, that we're the inspirers of crime. What is said to have concrete consequences, which are reflected in the fact that a person is entitled to life, so I am asking, indeed, whether such a violation of constitutional rights is meant when a law like this is proposed, although all of this may fall under the responsibility of this current Criminal Law, which would be much more pleasing to me, because I think that the day of imprisonment falls rather than the publication in the "Official Messenger" of being such and such, and it is known who constructed it. The public knows that very well. This point 1 above all, it seems to me, because of this last sentence - or whose execution has not been prevented in accordance with its legal powers - can hang Dusan Mihajlovic. A warning that there is a threat of assassination against the prime minister without taking all appropriate measures, says he knew, but did not prevent him in accordance with his powers, and there is still a minister in the Serbian government. This government may not be illustrating him for it, but if it turns out that he is responsible for it, we who are your political opponents, when we are in a position to exercise power, we will call him to account for killing Prime Minister Djindjic. Be assured of that. Point 3 - aims at affecting the state body, organisation, undertaking or other legal person to decide or take an action that brings citizens into an unequal position or to influence the outcome of a judicial or administrative procedure. I don't know how long it would take that commission to investigate how much Vladan Batic or Ceda Jovanovic interfere in the work of the judicial authorities. These two commissions, which you will have, this number of people can work day and night. Now the question is how will the Supreme Court operate without two Supreme Court judges, who will have to do this all the time; or how the Constitutional Court will work if two members of the Constitutional Court are constantly on this committee. You've touched a lot of dangerous things. Your intentions are hidden, though clear to us, but it's not a good way to do this, because we're constantly starting something that turns a chain reaction into something that can be a huge evil.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30409	No more logins for the word on this amendment. Parliamentarians Petar Petrovic, Milos Lukic and Adam Urosevic submitted the 5th amendment together. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. The word of the People's Messenger is Adam Urosevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30410	Dear People's MPs, the fact is that this bill has been done by a group of MPs, including prominent lawyers, such as Dr Dragor Hiber or distinguished Mrs Micic, in some ways discourages the professional criticism of this law. After all, I am not professional enough to criticise this professionally, but I believe that all of us MPs in this legislative higher house should have enough legal hearing to assess whether it's good or not. With one reminder, that legal science is very grateful for laymen, because let me, it's enough for someone to read the advice in some newspapers and already thinks he's a lawyer. I'm going to repeat again what I said yesterday in the principle discussion of this law, to get the impression that this was about, with one careful apology, by the system -- about the hand. I am also proving this by amendment to Article 5 of the law, which at the first point of this proposal reads "represents a criminal offence or another criminal act prosecuted under official duty". Let me remind you there's no such thing as an act that's being prosecuted. There's an perpetrator of a crime who's being prosecuted for this crime. So we propose a different formulation of this first point of this proposal, which would be - 1."represents a criminal offence or other criminal offence for which it is prosecuted under official duty, for which the limitation of criminal or other criminal prosecution has taken place, in which the person designated by this law was involved as the perpetrator, instigator, accomplice, assistant, aider, organiser of a criminal association or whose execution has not been prevented in accordance with his legal authority". If you closely follow the proposal of a working group or a group of MPs and our proposal, you have noticed that in this proposal, or our amendment, we have left out the words "or otherwise". We think those words are too high at this first point. As regards point 3 of the same article, according to the proposed solution in point 3 of the said article, the general form of human rights violations is also considered to be the taking of actions affecting the decision of the state authority, and for these reasons we consider it to be an excessive apostrophe of the impact on the outcome of the judicial or administrative proceedings, which are also led by certain national authorities in the broadest sense. I have to read you the proposal, and later our amendment. So point 3 reads - "is aimed at affecting the state body, organisation, enterprise or other legal person to decide or take action that has led citizens into an unequal position to influence the outcome of the judicial or administrative proceedings". We believe that after the word "unequal position" we need to put an end to the point; "or to affect the outcome of a court or administrative procedure", we believe that these are excessive words or, if I am not mistaken, it is otherwise called "pleonasm". Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30411	The word comes from MP Dragan Markovic, president of the Serbian Unity Party's parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30412	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Serbian Unity Party will not vote for this proposed law, because all the laws that have been passed in this assembly have been selectively applied, and especially in the "Sabbe" action. I am sorry that the President of the Assembly came out, because I need to pass on something to her that I was in charge of workers of certain companies from Jagodina - when there was a sugar affair, then there stopped the law on extraprofit, and it is known who participated in the sugar affair, who imported large quantities of sugar and destroyed agricultural production, and all production in Serbia for all time. We in Jagodina have one case, I won't say which party, but I ask the MPs to listen carefully to what's going on. One party in Jagodina, which runs the main word, and a large number of letters were sent by people from Jagodina, the party sets up bankruptcy managers in companies, the party tries to steal the square when it comes to auctioning some object to sell, and then the president of the Kragujevac Trade Court catches them in theft, then increases the square, and the price is reduced. People from that party have been sentenced to more than five years in prison. During the "Sabbe" campaign, the director of the House of Students and students bought a computer at the expense of the House, took it home, SUP went to his apartment, took that computer, and they later justified some regents. Now these people are attacking the SUP in Jagodina and all the SUPs in Pomorava County how badly they're doing, because they weren't supposed to arrest them. A municipal court judge has been dismissed for condemning the party's leader in Jagodina for six months, because a gun was found in his apartment. He was convicted of economic crime for a year and six months. It has more criminal charges, and it now creates and sets up personnel in the court and the SUP. That same one should be in prison -- he and a few other people from that party. The people of Jagodina met both the President of the Assembly and all the ministers. We, as a Parliament club, received a memo, mentioning the names of these people. But nothing is done, ladies and gentlemen. Then how can we believe that justice will be done as it says in the law? I would say one more thing; to convince his president, the high-ranking Serbian government official, he goes to court, gives him confidence that he is not convicted, ladies and gentlemen, and ten criminal charges exist and has been sentenced four times to prison. Now, I'm looking you in the eye from DOS - why don't you do something about it? I'm not gonna say what party it is, maybe people don't even know that these individuals are doing it in Jagodina, but let's see what happens these days, whether they're still gonna have the same ones, every night they're having shows on local TV, that they're attacking judges and people who are working in the SUP just because they're getting arrested. Then you're surprised last night when there was a vote, whether for reforms the way DOS is conducted -- 70.2% is against reforms, and 29.8% support your reforms, but those are the ones who only have functions in this country, you've put the secretaries on the phone. Every time a DOS representative shows up to speak last night, or when he gets a word, you see how this other side grows that says it's against DOS. I call on those respondents formed by DOS and those agencies who say 66% of citizens say they are satisfied, that they live well and congratulate the DOS in the way it does. Last night's poll on state television -- a vote that can't be created, and also something else, I don't think that's that much, because I'm saying that these are DOS people who voted for reform to be good. I invite you here and the chairmanship of Mrs. Komic's Assembly, she advocates justice, I will say in Jagodina that I have given it to you, to see what you will do against these people who are seven or eight years in prison, who are selling state property, who are introducing bankruptcy into companies in Jagodina. (President: National MP, five minutes and 35 seconds. I'm done, I expect you, but I'll call you in the media if you don't do anything. Ask SUP Jagodina for what these people do, whether they belong in prison or to be bankrupt managers in all the companies in Jagodina. (President: six minutes. I'm sorry, I'm done. They're putting in bankruptcy, and then all the bankruptcy managers are from that party. It's justice conducted by the DOS.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30413	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? If no one answers, we move on to the next amendment. The amendments, in the same text, were jointly submitted by the MPs Natasa Jovanovic and Vjerica Radeta and MP Dusan Cvetkovic. Do the applicants on behalf of the amendments want a word? The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30414	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the Serbian Radical Party, I have tabled an amendment asking for Article 6 above which the title stands - "Special forms of human rights violations by insulting the right to privacy" - to be deleted. For those of you who have agreed to vote in favour of this draft law of the Civil Union of Serbia, I will read the first and second position of this member: "(1) Infringement of human rights, within the meaning of this law, is every act of a person designated by this law, which offends the right to the privacy of the other person, and which is taken in order to obtain information concerning that person or who is in his possession, in order to provide that information to the Security and Information Agency or an earlier, or other relevant service. (2) There is also a violation of human rights when the action referred to in Article 1 has been carried out on the orders of the alleged, as well as when it was not against the internal rules applicable at the time of its enforcement, but was contrary to the provisions of the International Civil and Political Rights Pact". Mr. Andric is out of the O.R. I don't want to bid on how old Mr. Andric was when he was born, but I believe he was in a kindergarten in the period when the International Charter of Human Rights was passed. What characterizes this law or the fact that we have to have this debate, that it is already spoken of in the media, in the people, is a new seed of evil now being sown in Serbia. It's important, and to have honor and cheek in front of you, see what you gentlemen have done, or what the highest state officials have done in the past two and a half years. If we're talking about a period, so be it from 1976 to 1990, and especially during the time your ideologist Joseph Broz was alive, you have to keep in mind, if you start applying this law, that you're going to have to luxuriate tens of thousands of people. You older people know very well that these conjugal craftsmen, Mr. Mitrovica, know it best, did it based on the standard given to them by the State Security, the Chief of State, the Elder of the Authorities, etc., and that there were such situations that even 10 of them were sent to follow, and followed by him, his family members, how he behaves at home, how he behaves on the way to work, at work, etc., as well as in all his private activities. Since Mr. Andric also doesn't know it, and yesterday we told him several times that the president of his party, according to the former Chief of State Security, was also a top co-worker of the former State Security, under the conspiracitative name Socrates, would have to know that political opponents of the regime at the time, and coalition partners of Mr. Svilanovic and Mr. Andric, also, in the opposite way, as well as members of their families, were tapped and monitored in all activities. Now you're going to convince us that this commission of yours, which, by the way, is going to propose a non-existent president of Serbia, and the question is when are you going to choose him, act responsibly, and that he's going to castration just as you wrote it here. To convince us, right now you would have to make a statement and tell us, of course, in a political sense, because the commission was not formed, what you think of Interior Minister Mr Dusan Mihajlovic, what you think of General Obradovic, what you think of General Lukic, what you think of the former Chiefs of State Security, that is, the Chief and his deputy, Zoran Mijatovic and Goran Petrovic. I must remind you, gentlemen of the DOS, because you have forgotten it, you are used to treading over those who are alive and over those who are no longer present, that the family of Momira Gavrilovic, who was in Homeland Security, has been designated as the "Gavran object", both today and how interested, just as our president and the whole Serbian Radical Party asked for, to explain to us how far it came with the investigation into his murder. I'll remind you that he came out of the dorm room of dormant Vojislav Kostunica, that he gave him some information and then ate him in the dark - the man is gone.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30415	The time for discussion is up.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30416	Here, I'll be right there. You tell us, you who in your families have those who committed such crimes at the time of Joseph Broz and throughout your opposition activities had the head of the party's president, who was spying on Vuk Draskovic and all his closest associates, and in fact he worked for Homeland Security.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30417	The word has been given by MP Dusan Cvetkovic, as the applicant of the amendment in the same text.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30418	Mrs. Comic, fellow Members and fellow MPs, young and old from my southern Serbia, yesterday I spoke of the informative darkness, and here, from the dibidus of darkness, to say it as you understand me better, but today I was forced by these Democrats, of course, under six quotes, these forces that introduce the new Inforbiro resolution in Serbia, to come out again for this speaker. I remember, too, when I was 60 and a few years old, only according to the stories of Informbiro. But then it was officially only a party document, not a law. He turned black in many families, many children with 17 and 18 years of life took him to Goli Island, broke up thousands but only Serbian families. Again, as the hard-core ones were doing at the time, only obedients and Serb communists, today some of the provoking uncommunist forces in this society, through nine signatures, including the signings of the president of the assembly, and V.D. The president of the Republic, unfortunately, and distinguished Professor Hiber, are offering us some kind of illustration law. (More MPs from the post: "The law is about lustration, not illustration." ) Again, it is a proposal by Serbs against Serbs. None of the other republics did that. But, Serbs, what else would you do against each other? I'm sorry about the error in the illustration. I just understand the purification. What I can't quite say is something else. What the Civil League has offered today, headed by Natasa Micic, is as a legal proposal, it is certainly more illustrations, and this political illustration of all political opponents who can pose any potential danger.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30419	People's MP, please talk about the amendment. This isn't a principle debate. This is a debate on a certain amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30420	When we, as a parliamentary group, proposed that Article 6 of this law be deleted, we primarily had in mind that this article was introduced by a completely unconstitutional provision governing that human rights violations could also be strictly applied to the applicable rules. Article 2 of this article suggests that even publicly, legislators suggest that from case to case under violation of human rights, what was fully in accordance with the law, i.e. when it was not against internal regulations at the time of execution. If the amendment submitted by Mrs Comic to Article 3 is accepted, I think it is necessary for the amendments to be made in Article 6, especially in his position (2). Will numerous crisis headquarters, where, in Leskovac, many companies, were the leaders of DOS, and most of them were from the Democratic Party, gathering factory management and open threats to extort, come under this Article 6? My Leskians know that well, and the drastic example is "Healthy." It will remain written down what I am saying, because it is certain that nowhere will it be published, that the DOS gentlemen, because of the pressure they have done, will not be threatened in the worst possible ways, illustrated or lustrated. Are you going to lustrate your judges who won the election in Leskovac because one of your board members went out to have a beer, and the court ruled that there might have been violations of the rules at the time your member was absent? I'm sure you won't be illustrating such judges. Afterwards, you from DOS have re-emerged, and now, unfortunately, we are in power. That's why I think this member should be deleted. I'd like to warn you one more time -- we've managed to bury the axes between the Chetniks and the Partisans, the Civil Union again wants my children and my grandchildren to dig up new axes, be against each other, because for God's sake, the Serbs can only do so.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30421	Are any of the other authorized participants in the ruckus coming forward for a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30422	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this argument that happens in front of a pay phone -- who's a fascist, who's not -- is often heard in parliament. When ministers talk about some of them being fascists, it goes away, and when MPs say they're fascists, it hurts a lot. As you can see, you don't need to give qualifications that can't be proved by reason. As for Article 6 which we have submitted to the amendment asking to be deleted, it is contradictory to Article 16 of this same bill. Article 6 refers to information supplied to BIAs or to former national security. It's this special form of human rights violation. Article 16, which speaks of the Commission's obligations after the proceedings, allows it to carry out checks on BIA files or earlier, or other relevant services, court files, etc. It's obvious that this file exists. She has to be filled with something. Someone's been delivering this information. It's a violation of constitutional rights. On the other hand, all the documentation that she said by the system, and sometimes from the authorised persons, came where she needed to come, becomes a source of data and a means of proof in this process to determine whether or not someone violated constitutional rights. You didn't get along well with this BIA, and it's obviously a bone in your throat. I'd like to remind you of article 18. The constitution, which states in favour of this amendment, that "human dignity and the right to a person's private life are invulnerable, that protection and guaranteed protection of the confidentiality of personal information." So they still can't open those files and they can't be any means of proof. In addition to the Constitution, here is the Constitutional Charter, which you have voted upon, from Articles 19 to 94, which speak of the assumption of innocence, that "everyone is innocent until his guilt for a criminal offence is determined by a judicial decision". So, the only court ruling is that we can say for some person that it broke the Constitution and the law or not. It's also forbidden retroactiveness, punishment only under the law. We have a situation here, respecting the rule of not being biscuited and going -- no one can be punished twice for the same act, I don't know what you're going to do with those against whom the proceedings are being conducted, who are being punished, and now they're falling under the influence of this law again. Of course, Article 24 - "right to respect for private and family life". Item 4 of Article 24: "The protection of personality data is guaranteed. Their gathering, keeping and using is governed by law. But not like this and not with this law. ) The use of personal data, outside the purpose for which they have been collected, is also prohibited (and have been collected for the protection of state interests and possible use in the connection and prosecution of perpetrators of criminal offences). Everyone has the right to be informed of the collected information about their personality, in accordance with the law (but only him and no one else)." Therefore, you are unconstitutional and anti-constitutional in Article 6, so if you vote this law, if it works, here is also because of the use of this information by the BIA, you will violate the Constitution and you will be held accountable under this very law.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30423	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the People's Republic of Rade and Miomir Ilic submitted. Do the applicants want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from the Verse of Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30424	There are two basic reasons why I suggest you accept my amendment and delete Article 7 of this law. The first reason is that Article 7 is, in addition to the whole law, against a political law with which human rights and freedoms would be maximumly violated and which would mean political persecution of political insatiables. Another reason is that this member of the lustration law has been applied in reality, in life since 5 October 2000. I'm going to tell you a few examples of the application of this article so far. First, Mr Batic performed a lustration of judges for violations, because they applied the Information Act. Mr. Batic invited all those judges, everyone had one minute to talk to him. His question was whether or not you applied that law, say who put you up to it, go to the DHSS, and you'll stay the judge. If he didn't accept it, he wasn't even a judge of offense. Serbia's Supreme Court has returned all these people to their jobs. The logical question is, will Mr Batic be lustrated for this abuse? The other day, Mr. Batic said on TV that the court in charge must immediately take Mr. Bakalov out or if that is the name of Minister Veselinov's driver. The next day in the paper and the evening on TV - Bakalov was heard. So Mr. Batic ordered, the court did. Furthermore, Ms. Aleksandra Ljubojevic, the wife of MP Dragan Ljubojevic, the president of the SRS City Committee, was fired at the time of maternity leave at the Ministry of Religion. She's been tried and has a strong verdict that she needs to get back to work. Will this minister of faith be lustrated for this abuse? Mr. Rade Prokovic of Zemun was employed by the Public Enterprise ZIPS-Zemun, an activist and secretary of the Zemun Municipal Committee, was fired without any explanation in the tocubulation. The court brought him back. I ask if Simonovic, or as the director of the ZIPS is called, will be lustrated for it. Zeljka Radeta, my own sister, was fired in Zemun municipality, with the explanation of Secretary Goran Radovanovic - you know, Zeljka, I'm sorry, but I have to quit because your political presence irritates the new DOS leadership of Zemun. I have now risked the Fourth Court ruling on Zeljka's damage, because she is expecting a verdict these days, so someone will probably inform the competent judge to take care of it, to protect against the lustration of the president of Zemun municipality, Mr. Vladan Janicevic and Secretary Goran Radovanovic. Furthermore, Mr. Gašo Knezevic returns to the Faculty of Law, Stevan Lilić, the judicial verdict of a proven plagiarist, violating human rights and abuse of his office as terra from the university of professors Vojislav Seselj. Will Mr. Gašo Knezevic answer to this law? Yesterday we had a party action that we call the blue wagon, and that's what it's called because we're driving around in a blue flag town. There were a dozen cops outside, standing there, engineing behind the vehicle, writing down the license plate of those cars. I don't know if it's forbidden to carry radical flags through Belgrade and I don't know what it means to write down license plates just for those people. I don't know, Sinisha, who sent them, I'd like to know, so he'd be an object of lustration. Another question is why the Civil League has submitted this proposal, but since I entered the sixth minute, I'll do it on the second amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30425	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? Yeah. ) The word has the deputy president of the SRS, MP Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30426	So, one of the fundamental human rights, in addition to the right to life, is of course the right to work. As far as this right is concerned today, those without a job could talk about it in a magical way and probably judges who would judge by law, but also have to satisfy those who exert institutional and non-institutional pressure on them. Mrs. Radeta has brought some drastic cases here, and even when you have a judicial verdict, when the court has ruled, you are unable to execute this verdict, and the adverse consequences, of course, can be very large, but in this country, which itself is completely illegal, i.e. there is no rule of law and all that you achieve as a right remains a dead letter on paper. Then the press is included as an extended hand of authority to explain it all to you, of course in a radical way, as they would like it to look or how they would like the public to get the impression of it, so here's the case, and Mrs Radeta probably didn't want to mention it because it concerns me. My husband, for example, lost his job right after the five-eyed revolution. Then, after two days at his post, another man was admitted, and apparently, he was an extra. Now, where I'm going with this man to work somewhere, even if he's going to have a job internship, because we still have three kids, and we have to think about age, and we're already in advanced years, we report him to the SRS for a minimum personal income he receives today, and then you read in the paper, in this entire affair that's being conducted against the SRS, which is why the former director of the ZIPS, Mr Markovic, has been detained for 30 days, says he's employed by people from the party, and in Zemun municipality after we leave, all the members of the Democratic Party and DSS, have been hired by 230 more people. I really don't know what this is about, but you could also read how Mrs. Lazic's husband works in a public company, imagine that's the point of reference, with an coefficient of 2.7. You know very well what you do in management what a salary is, what an abuse it is. If he was the director of a public enterprise, an EPS or I don't know what, you might think about it, but each of us has a life-long path, depending on his ability or family, always someone has to take a little more back, and others sacrifice themselves because of that, who has more goals and not just thinks about what he's going to eat, so life doesn't think about his stomach, it's out of our heads, but that's the reality. Now I'm really wondering who's going to be the object of lustration, because I don't know exactly how much the Constitutional Court requires the SRS, I think 20th, to determine the unconstitutional nature of the individual decisions of this assembly and of the law, or of the individual members of the laws we've passed. Nothing the Constitutional Court does about it. First, we need to lustrate the Constitutional Court that violates our constitutional right to address this constitutional court and to get a proper decision and of course that these adverse consequences affecting all citizens, whose interests we here have to protect, in some way, documents. You should start by cleaning up, as they say, first in your house and in your backyard, and then think about cleaning up in front of the neighboring yard, but you've been thinking backwards here, and that's not good, because it'll lead to your disappearance, or self-destruction. I'm not surprised, you know, the Civil Union of Serbia, he shows in this way a little bit that he's alive, little in the media can be invited to talk about, to take their statements out, so they're seen on TV, so all of them, but I'm surprised by the Democratic Party, which a small Civil League can really drag into the abyss where no one will say -- this is the Civil League voted, he can't vote alone, but the DS will have these seals that he'll wear.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30427	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. ) The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Petar Petrovic, Milos Lukic and Adam Urosevic. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. On behalf of the applicants for the amendment, is anyone answering for a word? The People's Messenger Adam Urosevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30428	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, here are other objections that would prevent this legal project from growing up or being devoid of galamatias. On behalf of the Soviet Union, I represent the amendment to Article 7 or more precisely at point 1 of this article, which reads "unjustifiedly favours one person in relation to the other person or other persons (and now needs to be brought to account), taking cases in order not to be accepted, or concluding legal transactions under privileged conditions, if the law is not otherwise specified". We suggest that these words - "unjustifiedly take advantage of one person in relation to another person or another, by taking an item in a working order that has not been received, or" - are deleted, so that this remainder of the text remains in point 1. As for attitude (2), we suggest erasing, completely erasing, abandoning from this legal project of this attitude. I will have to read to you this position, which reads: "A violation of human rights exists when the action under Article 1 is carried out by order of the competent person or body, or assumed, as well as when it was not against the internal rules applicable at the time of its execution, but was contrary to the provisions of the International Civil and Political Rights Pact". With all due respect and respect for the International Pact on Civil and Political Rights, I ask the question whether the body elder who brings the Rules of Procedure on the work of a state body may have been obliged to consult the International Civil and Political Rights Pact. The question is whether this very pact regulates the order of reception, i.e. giving in to the work of the items received. Thus, the definition of a specific form of human rights violation, resulting from an infringement of legal equality according to the solution proposed in the position (2) of this Member of the Law proposal, endangers the working-legislative status of employees in state bodies, bearing in mind the rights and responsibilities of employees in state bodies, the powers of officials and other management workers, as well as the organisation and manner of work in all state bodies. The organisation and way of working in state bodies, as I said, is governed by a general act, in accordance with the law. According to the Labour Relations Act in the state authorities, the employee is required to carry out the duties of the official, or direct manager. In the case of a re-arrest or order, it shall be required to carry out that order without delay, other than an order representing a criminal offence, of course. We also point out that the refusal of jobs or the order of officials represents a serious breach of the work obligation, which can also be said for the termination of employment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30429	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. ) If not, we move on to Article 8 on which amendments in the same text have been submitted... (From Hall: Amendment to Article 7.) Members of the 7th Amendment, which is currently under discussion, were jointly submitted by MPs Petar Petrovic, Milos Lukic and Adam Urosevic. Please keep an eye on the debate. The amendment to article 7, which was submitted by a member of the SRS parliamentary club, was Verica Radeta, in the same text as MP Miomir Ilic. Members of the 8th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Srboljub Zivanovic and Joca Arsic. That's the text I have in my script. If it's a typing error, if you've submitted the same to article 7. (From the O.R.: everything's fine. Do you want a word? The word is made by MP Srboljub Zivanovic, amendment to Article 8.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30430	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have filed before the Serbian Radical Party Parliament Party amendment to delete Article 8. Proposal for a law on liability for human rights violations, i.e. lustration. Since it started to work, i.e. Since the election of this parliament, the goal of the Dossow government has been to bring Serbia closer to Europe, that is, Serbia in Europe. During this whole time of Parliament's functioning, many of the laws have been passed, with the aim of bringing Serbia closer to Europe, as well as to many European institutions, such as the European Union, such as the International Monetary Fund, or the World Bank, which needs to be supported by certain donations, or loans to help Serbia develop. Let me ask you where Serbia is today. The gendarme units are functioning in Serbia. They catch patriots and send them to The Hague. Then, after the five-eyed revolution, you form crisis headquarters that played the role of today's Lustration Commission to deal with political insatiables. All directors of the company have been replaced, whose companies have functioned well and worked well. You bring people to their place, and today these companies don't work, or they're in a sales tender. The economy in Serbia is slowly stopping. I ask if this law on lustration, on human rights violations, also works in neighbouring countries of the former Yugoslavia, in Croatia, Slovenia, Macedonia, where human rights violations have occurred, which shows the figure of refugees and exiled persons. You point out yourself, there is a need for the existence of this law after the suspension of an emergency and the opening of a series of large issues that burden and slow down to build a democratic society. Because you need to liquidate, or get rid of many of your close friends, suspicious moral and human qualities in the past, and now the only way to get rid of them is to apply these laws. This law should be applied to many of your officials, whether ministers or vice-presidents of the government, because you're talking about their abuses of position. All the murders, whether they have political connotation or mobging in them, I don't see if it has anything to do with human rights violations.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30431	National MP, please speak about the content of the amendment, it is the third minute, the amendment refers to the erasure of a member who defines the exclusion of responsibility for human rights violations. Please, about the subject of the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30432	Ladies and gentlemen, without radicalism and radical criticism, there can be no modern political system, because what you did right we say is good, and what's bad is we criticise and we give solutions that work better. Instead of coming to power through democracy, through pre-election promises of improvement in Serbia, the launch of economic capacity, you in Serbia are in fact introducing a police regime and the liquidation of all political inexperiences and those who think differently of you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30433	People's MP, please stick to the content of your amendment, because this is a debate in particular, the Rules of Procedure obliges you to do so.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30434	We, Serbian radicals, are fighting political indoctrination, mystification and political abuse. If you tell the truth about this speaker, you get a warning, or you get punished. This authority has maintained its conservative position, not to change anything, or to preserve power, because it does not exist for you, that the government should serve the people, and you have the people serving the authorities. How to lustration because of human rights violations in Serbia when millions of people walk unemployedly, hungryly and on the edge of existence. Wake up and realize that the people of Serbia want and deserve a better life, i.e. He deserves better authority.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30435	Five minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30436	One more sentence. I wonder if lustration will also affect the population of peasants, who today are the greatest heroes for the survival of this country called Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30437	I ask the Members of the People to indeed consult the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly on the Obligation, if this is a matter of discussion in particular. Half the time may be an argument, but it is unacceptable that no five-minute window, allowed under the Rules of Procedure for the hearing, is dedicated to the content of the amendments submitted. Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Joca Arsic, as the applicant of the amendments in the same text.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30438	Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, it is difficult to say something new after Mr Zivanovic's eloquent presentation, but on behalf of the SPS, we have submitted an amendment to Article 8, which we have provided for the erasure of this member. There are several reasons to delete this article. I will just remind myself that Article 8 provides that no responsibilities for human rights violations under Articles 6 and 7 of this Act are being questioned, if the action is carried out by a person under the age of 18, due to coercion, threats, blackmail or other illicit pressure, or carried out by providing information to a security and information agency or an earlier or other relevant service in a statement at a police hearing, or detention in police, prison or detention. So these are the intended moments when no proceedings are initiated and excludes responsibility for human rights violations. I mean, and not only do I think, but I also claim that this Article 8 is contradictory with the final position of the 6th and 7th members who say that there is an explicit responsibility if ordered by the manager, or directly and responsibly, the person responsible for the execution. It means that there is an element of coercion if the responsible manager orders you to perform some kind of action that's being embossed with human rights violations and you do it. Isn't that coercion? This excludes that what has been coerced is not subject to responsibilities, and you explicitly claim in the final position of Article 7 that this is also subject to responsibility. I am sorry that Mr. Andric is not here to see, that at least this contradiction in Article 8 draws close to him in relation to the last positions of the Members of the 6th and the 7th Law. I also think that responsibility is freed from people under the age of 18. In criminal law there are also elements of the work for persons under 18 years of age, there are sanctions for persons under 18, normally in special courts and in a special way and there is a possible abuse of children under 18, precisely for these purposes of human rights violations. It is normal that children under the age of 18 should not be subject to this law, otherwise selectively special regulations are regulated responsibility for such children, and I think it is unnecessary for one of these positions to be in Article 8 and found, to predict that the persons under 18 are exempt from responsibility. It is also a question at point 3 of this Article 8 in which it will determine who and what conditions it has made before the BIA and the former State Security Service. Is it so transparent in these services that it can determine exactly who is and what information, under what conditions and in what way it has given, whether it is forced or not under duress. Who will submit documentation of one such work of former services or of the current security service. If all of this was so transparent and accessible to all, available to citizens, that it can determine what is who and under what circumstances he has made statements to security agencies, then I don't think there's any point in having one such agency in this country. Anyone can go free, no need for a secret service, no need for a counterintelligence service, no need for a security agency like this, if that's available and transparent. Then what's her secret, in which her way of gathering information is secure, because it's known how the information is being prepared. That's what all states do. We're no one here to extrapolate who'll come up with something new. Is there a CIA, whether there are other agencies and whether they and their sources of information are available to everyone. Somebody tell me how transparent the CIA is, how many people from Europe were available when they were in the CIA. Thank you, Zeljo, I apologize for changing the current authority of the president, or vice president, or vice president, and I am ending this moment.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30439	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? The word has a folk letter from Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30440	Indeed, it is controversial in this Article 8 that the contradiction with Article 6 and Article 16 should be made clear on this matter, i.e. to clarify precisely the credibility of this data that the BIA now has, and sometimes the DB, and previously OZNA. There's an old saying in our country -- IT'S all known and it's normal to know -- there's got to be such an organ in the country, and the current agency has to take care of vital and state interests, and it doesn't, of course, choose the means to get the information. If there is a breach of human rights when one of these actions, which is referred to in Article 6, has affected that a security-information agency has access to the relevant data, then it states in the article that no liability for human rights violations under Articles 6 and 7 of this Act is questioned, if under point 2 is committed by coercion, threat, blackmail or other unauthorised pressure. I suppose you know very well, at least you who were former UDBE associates, that it usually begins by doing so voluntarily. You think you're doing some patriotic act, so you're ratting out your party colleagues or anyone in your environment, and then they're slowly taking you under theirs, and they say, now you have to go on like this and like this, this way, you have to process this now, because we're going to reveal it to you and eventually the fact that you're an associate of UDBE. It is very difficult here now to establish that line as long as you have worked voluntarily, with any motivation, it does not have to be material compensation, and when you start doing it under duress, threat or blackmail and who it is that cannot resist threats, blackmail or coercion if it feels that it is doing something that is against some of its moral principles or some basic moral code. There is no organ, and neither is this commission that you came up with, which will be able to determine when Svilanovic did it because he thought he needed to do something good, and when he started doing it under duress or maybe it was the other way around. First, he had to do it under duress, and then it became his habit, and he kept on doing it and ratting out his party colleagues and his coalition partners. Point 3 provides for the exclusion of liability for human rights violations if they are carried out by providing information to the Security Information Agency or other relevant service in a statement at a police hearing, i.e. detention in police, prison or detention. It is obvious here that there are a lot of suspicions about the police, in the investigative bodies that are coming to some data during the investigation, that data are, of course, being kept in the BIA, and it is here that it is a concern that those who came to the relevant data at the time and in the appropriate files would place these data, that they would be the object of lustration, and those who had to give it obviously at that stage of the procedure under duress to protect themselves, because they know that all of this can be denied in court, in a certain way will amnesty of responsibility.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30441	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On the 9th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Slobodan Janjic, joint MPs Joca Arsic and Rajko Baralić and MP Gordana Komic. The applicant's representative accepts this amendment. The word is from MP Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30442	I guess that's because I signed it. I thank Mrs Comic, who has submitted the amendment in the same text as Joca Arsic and I, so I can now be comforted that the amendment I have submitted has been accepted. What I'm trying to say is that I'm surprised that this kind of member could have been formulated in the first place, given the people who signed this, and above all Professor Hiber. It's simply incompatible with a few things, with a basic elemental knowledge of legal matter. Of course, we would like the motionary, Mr Andric, to accept that the law is withdrawn from the procedure and that would be the right measure for the attitude of MPs to the proposed law. But the acceptance of the amendment to Article 9 shows that the Civil League has done the bill, so to speak, hasty, not taking care of certain basic things that cannot be found here in any way in the law. I thank the promoter, and what I wanted to say is I'm going to say when I justify the amendment to Article 13, or you're going to accept it, so I don't have to go out, figure it out yourself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30443	Does the People's MP Slobodan Janjic want the word?
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30444	I think the chairman, since a law like this is on the agenda, could create conditions for us all to be equal, to provide a glass of water here; I think that the aversion to bathing has passed, it happens that individual speakers cough and need a glass of water to get their mouth wet. It's a violation of human rights, it's widely known in the world that a glass of water should stand in front of a speaker. I understand why the Proposer has accepted this amendment, he has provided for a punishment in this text for someone to apply a law that does not comply with the Constitution. He had to specify that, before the law was applied, all the laws were in the Constitutional Court, so when the Constitutional Court said they were by the Constitution, that they were then applied, otherwise this member could not be applied at all. Gentlemen, the lustration will be done in this country by those "yellow sticks", and it will be yellow to know exactly - the man who is lustrated, he will smell unpleasantly, he will have a yellow mark on him.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30445	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? The word has a folk letter from Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30446	Article 9 provided for a violation of human rights by applying an unconstitutional law, and apparently the promoter realized that it was against the constitution. It doesn't take much to convince him, since he came to that conclusion himself, I don't believe on the basis of the amendments, but based on thinking about what the consequences might be. But the repercussions of the application of this article, as it would be if it were not deleted, are the same as the consequences of any other member of this law. Since we don't know what the justification for acceptance is, and it would be good to know it, or if we did, and it would be very good to know what the government thinks about the whole of this law, given that it's a coalition government -- then we'd be much clearer. I suppose the President of the Assembly, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, has sent a bill to the government, although it is not mandatory to make a statement, but it could show interest in such a law, since it is political law. This is not a law that will improve life in Serbia, this is not a reform law in the sense that it foresees some economic reforms, for which we are all most interested, and all citizens in Serbia, and not just us here in the parliament that we represent. This is one political law that needs to show the essence of the political option that is now in power. She wants both those who have worked under the law and the Constitution and those who have not acted by law and by the Constitution to put in the same basket, it is only important that they have as many methods as possible that, if judges do not want to give up their reputation, their knowledge and do what the Constitution and the law prescribe, they have some other means of calculating with certain people. Someone here, however, has realized that human rights violations cannot be an act provided for by this law, which, in a court procedure or proceedings before other state authorities, as well as in a post-rule before an organisation that exercises public authority, applies a law or other general act which is clearly and generally known to be contrary to constitutional and international rules on human rights. The fact that it is generally known, each of us, of course, can view it in its own way, and if it has not previously been initiated and initiated a procedure to examine the constitutionality of that law or the general act and in this other way it has not shown that opposition. The Constitutional Court is the only one who can say - this is constitutional, and this is unconstitutional. There's probably a lot of work to do, I suppose, and the citizens, who have the right to do so, suffer the Constitutional Court with requests to review many acts and many members of the law -- whether they are in accordance with the Constitution or not, and that the Constitutional Court is working slowly, it's clear to all of us. We haven't even had a Constitutional Court in a long time, so that's why he's behind. But let him decide that without the law standing like this. Here, first of all, I assume we're referring to certain provisions of the Information Act or maybe we're referring to the Extraprofit Act. Since it hurts those who propose this law, because they did not come under the influence of this law, although it was suggested that they would, even many in today’s nomenclature of power are listed. Then, if this law is passed, they too should be struck by that law. There are some names that have been identified and the easiest thing to do then was to adopt this amendment to delete this Article 9. But that's not enough. The whole law should indeed be proposed, based on this debate that will be held in the Assembly, assessing the ratio of power and how it will be accepted in public, although I can see that the public is not exactly God knows how notified of this. She's probably not even very interested. The bill should be withdrawn in time.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30447	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) The Members of the 10th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Zlatan Jovanovic and Zivodarka Dacin. Do you want a word? First the Messenger of the people, Zlatan Jovanovic, and then the messenger of the people of Zivodark Dacin.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30448	Ladies and gentlemen, we have before us a legislative proposal on lustration, which was submitted by the Civil Union of Serbia, which was submitted to the Serbian Parliament on 14 May 2003. It is signed by nine MPs of the Civil Union of Serbia. What is unusual, what is strange is how in less than 15 days this legislative proposal comes to the Serbian Parliament's agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30449	Please go back to the subject. On the laws under emergency procedure, the Assembly is being declared at the beginning of the session.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30450	If you don't know what you signed, and obviously you don't know, that's your problem. What I'm saying is all about what I suggested in my amendment and it's about Article 10. For over two years or more, the Serbian Radical Party has submitted more proposals. The proposals were signed by 23 Serbian Radical Party MPs, and have not reached the assembly's agenda today. Clearly, the president of the National Assembly abuses his position. It is obvious that the president of the National Assembly will come under the influence of this law, as it violates the Rules of Procedure, violates all acts, i.e. laws and the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. In this proposal, you are calling for the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which you have so harshly trampled in adopting the Constitutional Charter and now in selecting this commission to adopt a new Serbian constitution. When the Constitution of Serbia suits you, then it is valid, and when it does not suit you, then it does not exist and you create a state without any legal basis. The aim of DOS is evident, which through the Civil League of Serbia here is trying to eliminate from the political scene all political insolents, so tomorrow you can call the elections yourself, play a bit of the election, and perhaps, in these elections, when you participate in them yourself, and the Civil Union may get one percent of the vote of Serbian voters, because in the elections it has held no change of vote, which means it has a very great influence and authority in the people. As regards Article 10, I would quote it, in order to understand what it is about: "A violation of human rights within the meaning of this law exists and when a person is defined by this law, in the official capacity of a court procedure or proceedings before another state authority or organisation that exercises public authority, which deprives another person of certain rights or rights, or imposes on him any obligation to act, does not act, or suffers, or imposes on him any penalty or other coercion, if he knew or had to know that the procedure was conducted solely for the purpose of applying political views and criteria, which are openly or hiddenly displayed as legal rules or criteria". Gentlemen, everything you've been doing here for two and a half years now falls under Article 10. It is you who will come under attack, if you eventually pass this law, Article 10. Everything you've been doing these two and a half years you've been doing for these very motives and reasons of political nature, to get political unthinkers off the political scene in any way. Will this law come under attack tomorrow and Mrs. Micic, as chairman? Will Mr Covic, who is funding from the Republika Srpska budget of the FMP basketball club, come under the hit of this law tomorrow, via the Zeleznik factory, which launders money for Serbs in southern Serbia, aimed at Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija and directs it to its basketball club?
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30451	The time for discussion is up.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30452	Will the other current ministers and members of the government, who for two and a half years insist on breaking all the rules, begin with the Constitution and through all the laws, as well as all the norms, all the acts?
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30453	I'm warning you of an overrun of the time allowed.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30454	Will those who have violated the act that this assembly has brought will also come under the influence of this law, exclusively for political purposes and exclusively with political motives? (Applause by the Serbian Radical Party MPs.) )
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30455	The word has a folk emissary of the Life-giving Dacin.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30456	Dearly respected presidency, honourable fellow MPs, I would indeed, as a starting point for the interpretation of my amendment, remind all of you of the ruling majority, but also of the other MPs, that one very important, very important parallel in the DOS election campaign was that when DOS came to power in Serbia, it would be boring to live. If this were to be translated, Serbia should be already largely in the process of running streams of honey and milk, and the people of Serbia do not know what money will do and do not know how to organise their own lives. But, gentlemen dear, unfortunately, for all the citizens of Serbia, even for us, that didn't happen. Living in Serbia is desperate now. People are no longer on the verge of existence. People are in the middle of life. After that, it happened next. For a year and a half, you could maneuver that for everything that is wrong, and what reforms fail and what the current government -- DOS -- is guilty of the former regime, headed by the Socialist Party of Serbia. On the other hand, in the polls, you've had an atmosphere that's not good for citizens yet, that you should have patience, but you can breathe easier. Today, gentlemen dear, it's getting harder and harder to breathe. Finally, of all the really necessary reform laws, which this assembly should have passed long ago, we have this lustration law, which now wants to update the situation and to say that, behold, reforms did not happen because no lustration law has been passed, so not all those who continue to have influence, I suppose, in the current regime have been removed. Why, on behalf of the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group, do I propose to delete Article 10? I do it for a simple reason, and my colleague Jovanovic quoted Article 10, so I wouldn't do it, which is based on assumptions. From 1976 to today, everything will be based on assumptions, and by the system "what would happen if it were" and that this commission, which will be hired for this lustration -- and it's obvious that there are many members of the Communist Union from the ruling DOS, unlike you, I was never a member of that party, so you know how to make a committee to examine moral-political similarities -- to know that it blames someone who knew what it was at the time, but, well, he didn't say it out loud. I think this is a very unserious member, as I think it is irresponsible law, because we play the judiciary in our country. We really don't need that. Let the judges do the things they need to do for all of us. If this is to be applied, in the next few years, all of us, first of all from this House, 250, should be lustrated. The presence of Article 10 speaks in favour of the coercion that judicial authorities, in the event of a case of lustration with one of the current or known leaders, and whether it is at local or republican level of DOS, will be intimidated and will not do so, because it will remain without its function, and not just the judicial authorities. The pressure is obvious. It is obvious that this member wants to be pressured, and it is obvious that this applies to all people who will perform any public function and who are even ordinary officials. This time, although I do not always appeal to MPs, nor to Mr Andric's proposal to accept this amendment, but I would like, as well as to all my fellow Members who have submitted amendments, to point out the senselessness of each member individually, including the law in general, and to ask MPs not to accept this law in principle in the day of voting, and what would be best, is that the motioner withdraws it from the procedure, while it is time.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30457	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? Yes, a folk letter from Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30458	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this member of the law is a purely declarative character. It doesn't mean much. If it is true that the promoter wanted what he said he was in his reasoning for the adoption of this law, he should have taken place since the trial of General Draži Mihajlovic, from sending people to Goli Island and so on, not to be defined for the application of this law since 1976. A lot of people would come under attack without even blinking. However, we have really overcome this division in our society, it seems to me, of partisans and Chetniks. Finally, in these 10 years, there's been a reconciliation, and we shouldn't be doing it again in this way. Let's put an end to it and start acting like civilized people. On the one hand, we are allegedly going to do some European integration, and we are doing everything that no country in that Europe would do. Everyone uses regular institutions in the country to destroy what is not right as weeds, to carry out possible repression to the extent that it is allowed, lead an adequate criminal policy, water and this political life much healthier than we can. The proof of that -- these days we're having an exhaustive discussion here about some laws. This is a political law that is important for Serbia's political scene, some repercusions will certainly be given to some political parties because of the law. We see that the government is preparing some other laws regarding political life: the law on political parties, re-entry and registration of parties. I haven't had a chance to see that draft party financing law, which we also need. We'll talk about them. A little where you can hear what we really think, except here in Parliament, those who have the patience to sit and listen and a few people at the gallery. The journalists who hear that, they can't take it, and they won't even be able to take it from a press conference that we always look back on to the work of the Assembly. You couldn't read a single comment or report from yesterday's press conference. What kind of climate is this where we do it and pass a law like this? I'm under the impression that this member serves as one of those function carriers that you don't know how to handle. You couldn't possibly get rid of them in some legal way. First of all, I think of Mr. Prijic, the special prosecutor. This member gives you the opportunity to deal with him at one point in the most painless way. Imagine the situation, it's been a state of emergency, tens of thousands of people, and maybe more have been brought in, and no one has listened to them, or asked why you're here, or if you have anything to say, and they've never had any criminal record, to sue the state, and to tell them what happened to them in the meantime, in what conditions were those 30, 50, 60 days. No wonder the proposer proposes that financial resources will be needed to implement this law. He certainly meant not only that commission's work, but the consequences that the law itself will produce. (President: 5 minutes.) ) There have been all kinds of abuses by operators of various functions in state bodies and organizations, especially by the police. Many were abused, many under terrible circumstances and circumstances spent that time in custody. It's all contrary to the Constitution. I expect that in the budget for next year, if we don't rebalance this one, and probably not because of what needs to be over, we're going to have to plan big funds for all those who are suing the state of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30459	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) Members of the 11th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Petar Jojic and joint MPs Toma Busetic, Joca Arsic and Bora Stanimirović. Do you sign up for a word? Yeah. ) The word of the Messenger of the people is Petar Jojic, and then the messenger of the people, Toma Busetic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30460	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS has tabled an amendment to Article 11. A bill of this law. From the number and the indication of all those to whom lustration should be applied, I am free to say that I only notice that the promoter remains, which he has not yet foreseen here, fortune tellers and maids. That's all he's got left for lustration, to lustrate that too. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, what is characteristic and what is very dangerous for the application of rights in one democratic state, is that the same decision-making body solves the second stage of the Commission. The appeal later goes to the Constitutional Court. (Ivan Andric, from the scene: The judges who participate are exempt. He does not say that this and that judge will be excluded. Furthermore, retroactiveness is predicted, which is absolutely contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the whole law is contrary, as I have said, to the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the general Declaration of Human Rights, the International Pact on Civil and Political Rights, the Faculty Protocol with the International Civil and Political Rights Pact, the International Civil and Political Rights Pact, the International Convention on Civil Rights and Political Rights, which aims to abolish certain sanctions, African human rights documents, the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. It is then contrary to the Protocol on Human Rights and other international legal documents protecting fundamental democratic and human rights. Obviously, the promoter intends to achieve the continuity of the Bolshevik and Communist methods for tracking, lustrating and preventing certain jobs from finding certain persons, which in this time, in the 21st century, when we are able to deal with other affairs, much more important in the interests of the Republic of Serbia, there was no place or need to propose such a law. As for the basic evidence that needs to serve the commission whether a person has violated human rights or not, it should be a record of the service of state or public security. In any case, it must be taken into account the quality of information obtained for a particular person through those external associates who engaged certain services at a certain time, which means - if this law is retroactively applied, the files of certain persons will be reviewed since 1945 and thus determine whether or not someone has violated human rights. Absolutely no expert and no legal institution would suggest such a thing in any case, knowing that this is contrary to the Constitution and the Human Freedoms and Rights Pact.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30461	Five minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30462	I'll be right there. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it would be expected that the proposing or current authority is proposing certain laws that would lead to broad action and activities to increase the standard of citizens, to increase production, to encourage smaller businesses, crafts, to promote agriculture, and this is how when you look at it, we deal with sanctions. We're only making up standards now that we're going to apply to certain faces, but I'm afraid it's going to echo badly in public, I'm telling you it will. This isn't a good law. No one can benefit from this. The greatest damage...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30463	On the basis of Article 102, I give you a warning because you have not followed my warning of a limit on the time allowed.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30464	You said it was the fifth minute.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30465	Five minutes passed, five minutes and 15 seconds, we won't argue, no more than five minutes you have time, you've overstepped that.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30466	Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, this is not a good law and we propose, Serbian radicals, not to adopt it, because you will have very fatal and harmful consequences for the citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30467	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? Yeah. ) The first word has the People's MP Toma Busetic, as the applicant for the amendment, and the People's MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, and the People's MP Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30468	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, I have access or the reasons for passing this law are wrong. Here the promoter says that such a similar law has been passed in many Eastern European countries, mentions Poland, the Czech Republic, East Germany, Bulgaria, Romania, and it is true, these laws have been passed in these countries, but mostly due to the adverse influence of a foreign factor. It's not about some other human rights violations and it's not about any other harmful influence. We did not have that harmful influence, if not in another time, between 1990 and 2000, so these reasons are nowhere to be found. When it comes to Article 11, which speaks of which persons are subject to responsibility, I think that this will, first of all, be taken to the head of the current government, because many things will not apply to our party, the elections will come very soon and these elections will be won by the patriotic forces, quite certain, but it is possible that we will miss a few MPs; you know, power is power and never is known. In that situation, a coalition with DOS is possible, anything is possible. But now there's a big problem. We would prefer with Covic and Mihajlovic, with them we have always been. However, what if it turns out to be true that Covic is related to this affair with these plugs, with this factory, with those long pipes 150, and related to October 5th; Covic will be lustrated? It won't work. Come on, then, with Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30469	Please return to the agenda, not to make coalitions.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30470	This is all about the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30471	It's not a theme.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30472	Since it's not a topic, this is where you talk about who can be changled.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30473	And not who can be in the coalition, you absolutely missed the topic, don't argue with me.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30474	I ask for a different approach, the lustration will most likely apply, I do not want to talk about the coalition, well, here, to Minister Mihajlovic. He told Serbian citizens in 2001 that there was no more organised crime, he had just breathed, it was good, and there were so many crimes, more murders in two years than in the past 10 years. Vladan Batic is here for lustration, because he has been putting pressure on the judiciary all along, on judges, and one of the fundamental human rights is a fair trial. Lustration would certainly be succumbed to by current incumbent Prime Minister Zoran Zivkovic, because he urged citizens not to pay for electricity, people just took a breath, we won't pay for electricity, bills came in for 100,000, 200,000, it's now great stress, it's chicking and they don't have that money and money to pay for it. They must certainly be lustrated and Vlahovic, Milovanovic and Djelic, because they sold out factories, abolished basic right, human right to work. Today, in Serbia, there are millions of people without a job, and from DOS dusks there must be 400,000 to 500,000. Finally, Dinkic; he entered the People's Bank with rifles, he has to be lustrated and he won't be able to be on a similar duty. In the end, it's quite clear...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30475	Five minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30476	... We would be very happy to support Mrs. Natasa Micic, no matter what, because she is nice to us, both to the middle and younger generation in the SPS, but these seniors are rebelling and saying - we can never support her because she violated the Rules of Procedure, constantly punishing us. They don't mind it, we don't mind, but generally looking, all the options will go against the head of the current government and it would be best if this law were withdrawn and not voted.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30477	The word is from MP Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30478	It'll be interesting to see who's going to be lustrated by names. This amendment to Article 11, which is why his colleague Toma suggested, predicts that this member should be deleted, for the simple reason that when all of this is looked at in Article 11, I am very interested in what it will look like in practice. In fact, this law and this article show the essence, because people need to be eliminated from political life, they need to be prevented from participating in the elections. Here are the taxes, first the MPs, and then everyone else. If all that has happened in the past two years is looked at, it will be interesting to see if one representative of the Government of the Republic of Serbia will be able to be punished for some significant duty, and now there are elections and among them are those who are certainly seen as candidates for MPs; that I am not talking about what will happen afterwards, because after some of them will not come at all to be candidates for these functions, because DOS elections will lose. But how can they be candidates for MPs, I mentioned yesterday an example of the Serbian Supreme Court's ruling that was annulled by the government of the Republic of Serbia on the introduction of the government's coercion in the Municipality of Priboj. The government's decision suspended local self-government in the Pryboy municipality, you don't know yet, maybe you do, but those they don't know about, so you have to pass on to them, that they know that they're going to be the object of lustration, so they're going to suspend the basic human rights of the citizens of the Pryboy municipality. The government, if the law is passed, and it seems it will, they must objectively be the object of lustration. We have a court ruling, let alone a commission's position that will have to respect it. Of course, those who have proposed such a Rules of Procedure about the work of the National Assembly will surely be lustrated, for the many changes they have made over the past two years speak for themselves. I am very interested in what will happen to the judges, because they are also the subject of this lustration, especially those judges who have contributed by their actions or inaction to the fact that Slobodan Milosevic is kidnapped and taken to The Hague. I remind you, Mr Milosevic was then a prisoner in Central Prison, Article 316. The law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions provides that a detainee may be temporarily brought out of prison and implemented by other authorities only on the orders of the managing authority. Article 120 of the same law stipulates that the application of the detention measures shall be supervised by the President of the District Court in whose area is the seat of the institution in which the detention is carried out and by Article 321 that the detainee shall be released from prison on the basis of a decision to suspend detention and a warrant for release from custody brought by the court before which the proceedings are being conducted. Article 192. The law on criminal proceedings is prescribed for detention to be determined by the investigating judge of the competent court. Cited regulations unequivocally conclude that Mr Milosevic had the status of a detained person over whom jurisdiction is exclusively investigated judge and judicial authorities on the day of June 28th 2001. The Serbian government's act of 28 June, as a sublegal act which was brought contrary to the federal constitutional court's decision, which was binding and enforceable, was also a violation of the then federal and republican constitution, of numerous federal and republican laws, and as such could not be the legal basis for the extradition of Mr Milosevic. I mention this for the simple reason that in the meantime the two judges who, by their actions and inaction, made it possible for this kidnapping to take place, makes me look like the judge of the Supreme Court of Serbia...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30479	Five minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30480	Yeah. Mrs. Vida Petrovic-Škero was obviously replaced because of the long language, so she was transferred to the Supreme Court, and Mr. Cavalina received a reward for what he did. )......................................................................................................... They will be subject to this lustration and it is undeniable. The last thing, in this Article, point 16 says, is that the functioner and the authorised official in the BIA; this is how if this member and this point were applied, it is intended practically to eliminate security in this country, and what among other political reasons I think is one of the objectives of the GSS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30481	The People's Parliament of Gordana Pop-Lazic, according to the Rules of Procedure, came forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30482	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we began a little hasty search of this agenda yesterday. If you remember, in two hours and ten minutes a search was opened and I didn't have the opportunity, and I had the intention that at the beginning of the debate on this item of the agenda - knowing that it was a subject that was very ticky and we have to call individuals of the current authorities - to ask the President of the Assembly for a little more tolerance than she usually has. We know that the threshold of tolerance is short, so that it allows us here, both the position and the opposition, to talk about it. So, I didn't have a chance. Today, it has proved that by looking only at the clock, because it is time for us to finish this debate as soon as possible, we are engaged in a date, five minutes and a few seconds of debate, the measure of caution is being expressed. That measure also has its monetary value. I watched for an hour knowing what would happen today, when Mrs. Comic spoke for two seconds, she passed that time of five minutes...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30483	She spoke for four minutes and don't tell the truth, you have two warnings anyway, before you take away your words.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30484	You have no reason to take my word from me, I speak very nicely. I'll use my time to explain. So I'm asking you to per Article 102. ... (President: No, it's a member... You want to let me say what I have, so answer me. Pursuant to Article 102. The board of directors has to make a statement as to whether it's a violation of order, if the MP wants to finish the sentence, so it goes two or three seconds, up to five, five minutes behind. Of course, I would like to take another chance to ask you very curtously that, using your authority from Article 28, you show at least as much patience as all the other MPs in the O.R. have, so that we can end this debate the way we started. I thank Mr. Andric for already speaking in his exposé about the bill, mentioning all the people we later mentioned, and thus amnesting us to the president of the assembly. That was my request. So, the request to the Administrative Committee to declare whether the Rules of Procedure has been broken by the President of the Assembly. It is a discretionary right, but it can also be determined whether it is a violation of the Rules of Procedure, if the MP finishes his sentence after that five-minute period of time, how much time we have to discuss. I'm not asking you to explain anything.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30485	You're right, it is my discretionary authority. I remind you, too, of article 137, which discusses the debate in particular and how it is done. In the end, it ends with everyone who participates in the debate having the right to report for a word at least five minutes at a time. That's what it says in the Rules of Procedure, Article 137. If I warn someone on time that he started for the fifth minute, and he doesn't stick to that warning, then I have every right to give such an MP a warning. (Goldana Pop-Lazic, from the post: Thank you for the explanation. You're welcome next time. You can have your word if you want to speak by amendment. Here you go. (Dear Ljubojevic, from the place: Time. So, what? Let it be. What time? Do you write a break at 1400 hours. Find out where it says it.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30486	Madam Chairman, we don't have to take a break at all. We can work tomorrow by 7:00 in the morning. I got some sleep last night, and here I am, orna to work until we're done with this bill. Article 11 is one of the key members that points out that the promoter only thinks about those who are currently performing certain functions and those who will perform certain functions in the future. It doesn't remind us or anywhere he said it in some member that he was going to fall under this, since we're going from the 1976 period, and some function carriers that can't be recognized here. That's not what these functions were called, and the powers were the same. I think you've shown your intentions, because many of the faces within some of the other organs could and had the authority to break the Constitution, and it will, by the very fact that they are not listed in these 19 points, be amnesty. As for the MPs of the National and Regional Assembly, we should really be amnesty, or all, or at least those who voted to change the Constitution in an anti-constitutional way. We don't have to move on at all, what we've been doing for the last three years. The MPs voted on this and thus violated the Constitution, and the consequences will be such that they will surely demand a review of the responsibilities of certain MPs. As for the President and Judges of the Constitutional Court, and not only the Constitutional Court but also all the other judges, Article 101 states that the law determines when the office of judges ceases and that their function is permanent and everything about the judges, so we cannot now and in this way lustrate them. Why can't we lute teachers in elementary schools, high schools, if they've violated the Constitution, and they've had the opportunity to break the Constitution in different ways, no matter what they're not, say, the bearers of some public functions. They perform a work that is extremely important. Don't think I'm in favour of the fact that lustrations should be selective; I don't think there should be any lustration. This is the position of the SRS, and we want to defend that position, as far as possible and as much time as time for this assembly speaker will allow. In point 13, you shall provide for the responsibility of directors and board members, public institutions whose founder is the Republic, province or local self-government. That's where you mention university council members, university rectors and college dean, so where's your university autonomy? How they violate the Constitution, university rectors and members of the university council. That's something really inadmissible, and especially since you're declaring yourself that the university should be autonomous. "The chairperson and member of the Management Board or other relevant management body, director and editor responsible for the organisation involved in public information or publishing." Is it possible that you can't get rid of Bojana Lekic and Mr. Komrakov in a different way, or they may be free of responsibility because public information as a constitutional category is not satisfied because they said - the board of directors decided on it. And the board of directors said - the Assembly committee decided so, we can't go against the Assembly board, he's directed us, he's given us the opportunity to transfer congregation meetings, but he didn't say - you have to, respect our decision, but he said - we recommend you and we decided. No one will be responsible for that. If this remains a dead letter on paper, it's only one political marriquette, but if it's applied, then there'll be blood to the knees.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30487	No more logins for the word on this amendment. The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Petar Petrovic, Milos Lukic and Adam Urosevic. The proposer's representative accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I guess you don't want a word. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) We continue the debate in an hour, so at 15.05 hours, by discussing the amendment to article 11 submitted by MP Anita Beretic and MP Aleksandar Radosavljevic. [[After break - 15.40]] Before continuing the session, please determine if we have a quorum. I understand we have a quorum to work with. The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandar Radosavljevic and Anita Beretic. Do you want a word? Please, MP Aleksandar Radosavljevic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30489	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, of the 11th proposed law determines the number of persons to whom the lustration procedure should be carried out. My colleague Beretic and I have submitted an amendment that needs to explain approximately a little bit, especially point 13, and introduce a new point. I'll explain why. The President and members of the Management Board or other relevant management body, director and editor responsible for the organisation involved in public information or publishing, shall be referred to in point 13. We considered that this text of point 13(2) should include the lustration procedure - president and member of the board of directors or other relevant management bodies, directors, deputy directors, editor-in-chief, deputy editor-in-chief and editor-in-chief of a public information or publishing organisation. I think it's clear why we've expanded the spectrum of people who should be covered by this procedure, because we believe that the past 15 years have clearly shown that, in fact, these faces, especially in the sphere of information, have shown that they don't deserve that attention and that degree of responsibility they had. We were also of the opinion that, regardless of what point 8 says, "the deputy and assistant minister, the official who manages the republican, or regional authorities and organisations" - so that the part that we imagined to refer to the directors of tax administrations, deputy directors of tax administrations, assistant directors, is partly contained in point 8, that the names should also be mentioned in places of local self-government or those who are directors of regional tax administrations. I suppose when I spoke and mentioned the names of the functions of these faces, each of you personally imagined that little local powermaker who in the past 15 years had pretty much violated human rights, so that we wouldn't come back to such a situation that we could possibly bring new candidates in so that they could abuse the function. We think they should be covered by this procedure, too. I sincerely hope that the legislator will have an understanding of this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30490	I would like to thank the Commissioner for accepting this amendment. The People's MP Gordan Pop-Lazic came forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30491	Here is the argument that comes from the Democratic Party in favour of my discussion on this amendment, which was submitted by the Serbian Radical Party, which I tried to further explain - that it is simply impossible to include the names of all the people you want to lute. Secondly, you're mixing the concept of local self-government and territorial unit. Local self-government is just a town and a municipality. The territorial unit is an autonomous province and it is not a local self-government. As far as I can see, from the local self-government under your lustration, only the Secretary of the Assembly or the Secretary of the City Assembly who was appointed as a person, and you forgot the President of the Assembly and the President of the Municipality under the new Law on Local Self-Government, which has extremely great powers. Therefore, you have agreed to this through amendments regarding the responsibilities of all officials at all levels of government that currently exist. But if you go back, let's say Mrs. Gorica Mojovic had exceptional authority in that communist time on culture. She was the head of the pioneer - pioneer lineup at the time of the landings at JNA Stadium, the organization of caravans for Kumrovec and so on. They'll be amnesty by responsibility, and you're talking about some period since 1976. You only think about this period since democracy was introduced in Serbia and you probably think that this is how you only deal with those who are currently participating in the political scene and those who are in opposition political parties. After the next elections, both locally and at all other levels, the current opposition, which is primarily depicted in the Serbian Radical Party, will be the bearer of all these important functions and you think that this law, as such, will be able to survive if it is brought in at all, and can only be brought in thanks to the will of the Democratic Party. The Civil Union does not have the capacity in the Serbian Parliament to act on the adoption of this law and let all those who give the quorum to vote this law, even if voted in a dissuasive way, be responsible for the adoption of such a non-democratic and unconstitutional law.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30492	No more reported for the word on this amendment. Members of the 12th amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Nebojsa Jovic and Joca Arsic and MP Stevan Kesejic. Are there any reports of word? The word has a National MP, Nebojsa Jovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30493	Dear People's MPs, the bill on responsibility for human rights violations is contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, with a recently passed Constitutional Charter and the Charter of Human and Minority Rights and Civil Liberties, as well as the Criminal Law of the Republic of Serbia. For these reasons, the SPS parliamentary group has submitted amendments, proposing that members of this law be deleted, which says we are against the proposed law. My colleague Joca Arsic and I, on behalf of the SPS, submitted an amendment to delete Article 12. This article speaks of participants in the procedure. He says: "The party to the proceedings is a person whose responsibility is being questioned before the Commission for the examination of the responsibility for the exercise of human rights. If the Commission considers it necessary to carry out evidence, and in particular for the purpose of taking a statement from a person whose human right has been violated, it will call on Simeon to participate in the procedure. By the time the work of Abdusman begins, the Commission will call on the public prosecutors and their deputies in the Republic to participate in the proceedings, taking into account the linkage between the human rights violations and the area called the public prosecutor or the deputy. "That's exactly the issue in this article. Article 105. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia says "the public prosecutor cannot carry out the service or work legally established as incompatible with its function." Article 101. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia says that neither the judge can be a member of the commission or cannot carry out the service or work legally established as incompatible with the judicial function; also, Article 126's position has been defined that the Constitutional Court judge cannot perform another public function or professional activity, nor can judges carry out other paid tasks. The Commission's work is not in line with our legislation. Our legislation starts with someone being innocent until proven guilty. The law suggests otherwise - that the commission and the larger carry out checks and give notice to the means of public information if the person does not give up the candidacy for a function or does not withdraw from office. It creates a space to deal with political inexperiences. This is also the purpose of this law, or the introduction of moral-political similarities, and under the pretext of human rights protection. We know that in Articles 2 to 7. The Charter of Human and Minority Rights and Civil Liberties says "not to discriminate, that everyone before the law is equal and that guaranteed human and minority rights cannot be restricted". Article 9 says, "Each one has the right to judicial protection and to a fair trial." The level of rights achieved cannot be reduced. It cannot be decided by a commission of any kind, especially by a commission of this kind, and there is no real basis for its formation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30494	The word is made by MP Stevan Kesejić.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30495	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in front of the Serbian Radical Party, I have submitted one, in a logical series, amendment to Article 12 of the Law on Liability for Human Rights Violation, as you say - lustration. But I'm going to try to avoid that word, because I can make a lapus and say chandelierization or something, because that's exactly what the law looks like. By not respecting, otherwise, the arches -- equally for all citizens of Serbia, and especially not for all political parties, therefore, the Criminal Law, then the Constitution and everything else, the applicable law is simply applied then as it corresponds to the DOS majority and authorities in this country, and when it comes to other citizens who are not close to this authority, it is then applied selectively or as it corresponds to the majority in this national parliament and in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Given the shortness of time, it would take me a lot longer than five minutes for this amendment, so I'm just going to bring a few aspects to article 12 of this law that talks about the participants in the procedure, so on the persons to whom human rights violations are concerned. I have to admit to you right now, I've already got some fear, anxiety, chills, every time I come out here, I don't know what's going to happen to me, because it wasn't the first case that, even though I'm talking about the agenda, the subject, that I'm being denied the opportunity to express what the Constitution gives me is right. The Constitution says that the MP represents his political rights, attitudes, etc., as set out in Article 77. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The same article in paragraph 2 says that the MP cannot be called to criminal responsibility for a voiced opinion or voice in the National Assembly, and in particular cannot be punished. What's going on? This is where the MPs are punished. I'll speak precisely from that aspect, because I don't have time to talk about all of these protected, amnesty from those other laws that were brought here, in the National Assembly of Serbia, so the ministers that were mentioned here, who were charged with criminal charges, but they didn't bear any sanctions. So it is obvious that this law also intends to be selectively applied against political insolents. Article 12 speaks of a person being questioned before the Commission for the examination of responsibilities for human rights violations, and the Commission will be formed by this assembly majority, therefore, of DOS machinery. This results in them assessing who violated human rights, having the opportunity to amnesty certain, which they did, but belonging to their - DOS majority. For all that, I would suggest that this law not be passed. If it is just being applied, then the president of the National Assembly would have to be lustrated first, and precisely because what I said about violating the human rights of the MPs, and that is quite evident. What will the other citizens expect if the MPs, who have immunity, experience such things that even their lives are being questioned by the speaker of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30496	You've been talking for five minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30497	Thank you. That is why I believe that what the proponent from this minor party is looking for - and there are no members of the Civil Union in my district, even the question is that it may have been some governmental non-organisation - a nebulosis, to adopt such a law, which some anonymouss suggest, those that even citizens in Serbia don't know. It is also in the interest of the president of the National Assembly that although he is a signator of this proposal, he does not accept this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30498	Does anyone else sign up for this amendment? The word has a folk MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, and then a National MP, Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30499	Article 12, which defines participants in the process of examining responsibility, is anti-constitutional as everyone else. I'll try to prove it to you. The position (1) provides that the party to the proceedings is a person whose responsibility for human rights violations is being examined before the Commission for the examination of the liability for human rights violations (hereinafter referred to as: the Commission). In our opinion, it is, in the following text, interrupted by a court or a parajudic authority, which is not foreseen by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. In your view (3) you provide that if the Commission considers that this is necessary for the purpose of carrying out evidence, and in particular for the purpose of taking a statement from a person whose human right has been violated, it will invite Simeon to participate in the procedure. We still don't have that Ombudsman in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. You know this yourself, and in your view (4) you foresee that until the launch of the activities of the Simeon, the Commission, under the conditions set out in Article (3), will, from the list of public prosecutors and their deputies in the Republic, call on the public prosecutor, or the deputy to participate in the procedure, taking into account the link between the place where human rights have been violated and the area called the public prosecutor, or the deputy. Article 103. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia provides that the public prosecutor's office is an independent state body, which prosecutes perpetrators of criminal offences and other criminal acts and invests legal means to protect constitutionality and legality. Article 105 speaks of the fact that a public prosecutor cannot carry out a service or work by law established incompatible with his office. We also have the Public Prosecution Act. I would remind you that, on several occasions, it was on the agenda of this assembly, changes and additions to that law, it seems to me that it was exactly twice, and it clearly stands to what the public prosecutor's job is, what he's doing in a system of division of power, and what he can't possibly do. How are you going to get some public prosecutor to take this job, who will only be able to be replaced by the Public Prosecutor's Office Act? The proposal on the termination of the public prosecutor's office absolutely has a basis. A man will lose his office as a public prosecutor because he agreed to work in one of these committees, of course, if we had a legal state. If he deals with it and keeps working on this commission, then he doesn't have the capacity necessary to work, which means he's not even a public prosecutor, and then he's the one who's the object of lustration, without being represented by anyone, and there's no ombudsman, there's no prosecutor, and then you're in a one-of-a-kind situation. The position (2) provides for the representation of the person referred to in Article 1, his position, the right to defence and the defence counsel to comply with the rules of the Code of Criminal Procedure. You admit that there's a parajudic authority at work and that it's a matter of broken courts. The motivation that made you propose a law like this wasn't enough to propose unconstitutional laws. It goes in favor of that finding that even something that's wrong, politically wrong, we're politically condemning it, and you want to suggest or bring it, you have to at least wrap it in a form that can get stuck in this, still valid, constitution.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30500	The word is from MP Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30501	A colleague, Nebojsa Jovic, has proposed to delete this amendment. We, MPs of the Socialist Party of Serbia, think that this is quite logical because Article 12 of this law provides for the formation of a commission, one, is obviously, the ad hoc bodies that need to be, after the eventual adoption of this law, to carry out their work and then to be abolished. This law has no chance of a long life. It's short-term and pragmatic, as well as political character. It is certain that it will not bring any great political benefit to the promoter. We have proposed to delete this member because we believe that this member of the law forms a commission, a working body, which does not exist in the legal order of our country; there is no possibility in this country's legal system of the possibility of forming a commission that has the authority to prevent people from performing public functions. No one in this country, if the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is respected, as well as the applicable laws, can be punished for any act without a court ruling. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia in Article 23, paragraph 3, says, "No one can be found guilty of a crime until it is found by a judicial decision." Unless the DOS respects the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which is very interesting to mention for the reason why one mandate was previously adopted, it is precisely by calling for a provision of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and the need for its respect, and in this case it is being violated. I must also quote the provisions of the Charter of Minority Rights and Civil Liberties, which was adopted at the end of February of the current year, where Article 9 states, for example, that everyone has the right to effective judicial protection in the event that he is injured or denied any human or minority right guaranteed by this Charter, as well as the right to remove the consequences of such a violation. I will mention this occasion and a member of the 17th same document, which says that "everyone is guaranteed equal protection of the rights in the proceedings before courts, other state authorities and public authorities. Everyone has the right to decide on his rights and obligations, as well as charges against him, without delay, an independent, impartial and legally established court. Court decisions are made publicly, and court proceedings are public, except in cases of a certain law." A colleague, Jovic, has proposed to delete this member, because he logically believes that one such body can impose a reduction, abolishing civil rights, the right to be run and elected, based on unverified statements or documents, which objectively do not have their legal validity. It is also interesting to mention here, in our opinion, one contradiction in the views (3) and (4) of this member, where the prosecutor is also involved in the commission's proceedings, and the prosecutor is a law enforcement body and cannot express measures. We think that this member is contradictory, that this member is establishing something that has no basis in the legal system, in the legal order. For this reason, a colleague suggested that he be deleted.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30502	No more reported for the word on this amendment. Members of the 13th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Dragan Ljubojevic and Rajko Baralic. Do the applicants want a word? Here you are, MP Dragan Ljubojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30503	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the 13th Law are concerned with examining the responsibilities of individuals. When this member of the law is read, you can see what the motives of the promoter were to propose such a law. Article 11 of this Law lists all those who fall under the law. We had an amendment here that extended the list, given that it was accepted by the promoter. With a few sentences, I would refer to Article 11, paragraph 1, which relates to Article 13, which provides that MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia may be called to account under this law, or lustrated, and Article 77. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which is still in force, has not changed it, you intend to, says, "The MP cannot be called to criminal responsibility, detained or punished for opinion or voting in the National Assembly." In practice, you impose less sanctions on this law in the legal procedure than is provided for by some other law, which is practically prohibited by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia by MPs, i.e. cannot be criminally sanctioned for an opinion or vote in the National Assembly. If the MP is carrying out his duty and has done something, and it is related to human rights violations, it can only be subjected to what the Constitution says, therefore, to an opinion expressed or to a vote in the National Assembly. Practically, the Constitution gives him an abolism, and you hereby punish him. Next, Article 13(3): "In the lustration procedure it is determined that, at the time of human rights violations, the assumptions of individual liability were fulfilled in accordance with criminal and other criminal law". Why is it that someone who committed a crime has not been held accountable or otherwise sanctioned by some other law? If, in the period of 1976, when your ideological followers were in power, there was a breach in court, in the judiciary, if, during the previous regime, as you call it, the situation in the judiciary was bad, so those who violated human rights were not prosecuted, in these two and a half years you tried, assured us that you were seducing order in the judiciary. You have had the opportunity to prosecute and sanction those who have violated human rights in accordance with some other law. Perhaps I could agree with the fact that some kind of ban policy enforcement exists, but only as collateral punishment. When it is proven that someone has committed a certain crime, then we can talk about banning him from politics, but if he gets four or five years in prison, then what does this punishment do to him? If he is convicted, do you think he will be elected a councilman, an MP, or something like that? You cannot deny someone, whom the people have chosen, gave him the mandate to be a representative of the people, either in the assembly of the municipality, whether it is in the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, in the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina. So this specifically refers to those who are directly elected by the people. (President: 5 minutes. ) As for those who might fall under this law, it is certain that this law is politically motivated and that this will be a deal with political opponents, but not only with opposition politicians. You're also preparing the ground for a reckoning within your ranks. I recently proposed to Serbian Civil Union President Ivan Andric and offered this book, to take it to read and see who the secret agent Socrates was, in which way he violated human rights, in which way he committed crimes, or did contrary to this law. It'll be a good basis for him to lustrate and accomplish what he's up to.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30504	The word is from MP Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30505	If Socrates knew in what context his name would be mentioned after so many years, he wouldn't even live. Article 13 speaks of individual interrogations and responsibilities. We have suggested that this member be deleted because cases in which the responsibility of the natural persons listed in the position (4) of this member (inaccountability, business incompetence, etc.) is excluded are already governed by some other regulations. I remind you that this is also one of the members that can be very problematicly interpreted and applied. That's what one MP was talking about here yesterday, with an emotion I understand, because two without a soul can always mean one without a head. I remind you, when it comes to business ability, that here in front of you a year ago I challenged and challenged the argument, although you, with 11 votes, ignored it and chose in one district of the highest law of state persecution a person, even though I offered documentation, proof that he had no business capacity. There's no need to talk about it, my colleagues here know what I'm talking about and they know fellow MPs from Cuck. We had a face that concluded with his mother-in-law the loading of life support and that of his mother-in-law. If he was a lawyer at that point, if besides everything you knew, he was elected district attorney in Chačka, and now we're talking about lustration as such. Take care, these are delicate things, the whole article 13 is so problematic that it's almost unsustainable. To say one more thing, the question, please colleagues, there are 15 doctors here from the neuropsychiatrics of the MPs, the question of human incompetence is one of the most significant categories, these people should be treated in a human and human, legal and civil manner. If this stays the way it is, we introduce into practice something that can be, not only extremely incomprehensible and dangerous, but something that one of the members of your law, where it is said that law enforcement will be approached by taking care of human dignity, will completely dissipate and therefore we suggest that this Article 13 be deleted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30506	Does anyone else sign up for a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30507	Article 13 regulates the examination of the responsibilities of individuals through four positions: for the liability of a natural person for human rights violations, in the cases of certain this law; and in attitude (2), it is said - belonging to a particular political party, organisation or group, except for belonging to a criminal association, in the event that the violation of human rights is at the same time a criminal offence for which the limitation of criminal prosecution has taken place, in itself is not the basis for the conduct of the lustration procedure and for the voicing of lustration measures. This attitude could seduce us not to read as it is written between the lines and not listen to what is really happening on Serbia's political scene and what we can do in the media and through the means of public information to hear. I think, above all, of the electronic media, because they're far more visible, not to mention the Internet, because there's a lot you can read, even on the website of the Serbian MUP, you can hear Mr. Orlic, Mr. Covic, Mr. Vesenov, who will say that there are even criminal associations about certain political parties of all qualifications. Then you get a sign of equality between some political party and a criminal association. Then all this applies to them, too, I must say that this, as it is written in the position (2), does not amnesty by political parties of responsibility, regardless of what you are talking about the responsibility of a natural person. You're talking about the responsibility of a natural person, then it doesn't matter if someone violated human rights as a member of the Democratic Party, the Civil Union, the Socialist Party, the Serbian Radical Party or anything. A natural person is a physical person, his political conviction is his alone, because he belongs to that party no one can call him to account and clearly a cruel mistake has been made. As regards the position (3) that in the lustration procedure, it is found that, at the time of human rights violations, the assumptions of individual liability were fulfilled in accordance with criminal and other criminal laws, I must remind you of the fact and also of the constitutional provision that only if it was at that time, when it was done, it was provided for as such by criminal law. So the retroactivity in that sense we never had, except when DOS came to power. That's where we started to introduce retroactivity, we introduced this precedent once, and now we continue with this practice which is obviously not good and creates an unfavourable mile, as much as for the citizens of this country, so much for yet, it seems to me, not perhaps in this case, but perhaps in other cases, unfavourable miles for those who would allegedly invest capital in this country or that you are calling for them to come and invest their capital, so that the economy doesn't start. Everyone's also looking for a stable political climate, a stable economic climate, wants to know what kind of laws rule here, where we move in that direction, what our monetary policy is, to invest our capital here, because for them we become completely uninterested. We're getting into a situation where then our top state officials, no matter who they are and what they are, meet some businessmen, and you know, when I go to a duel, I mean some TV show, I make sure that my pandan is at least the vice president of some party, because I'm not going to go out on a duel with everyone, so your state officials should be keeping track of what level they're meeting at.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30508	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ) The MPs Ljubomir Kragovic and Dusan Cvetkovic submitted to the 14th amendment in the same text. Do you want a word, let's see who is first signed, Mr Ljubomir Kragovic, then MP Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30509	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in front of the SRS Parliament Club, I have submitted an amendment to delete article 14. This member regulates the matter of respect for the dignity of the person to whom the lustration procedure is conducted. The attitude (1) says - the commission and other bodies of the lustration process are obliged to respect the dignity of the person to whom the lustration procedure is conducted. You see, earlier people through those manifestations, I mean the landing, harassing our children, harassing our children through the staff to go out, they had to, it was their obligation, but it was Communism's ideology and why these people were lustrated again, it's not their fault they had to wear the staff and organize the landings. I think that year was 1976. Since I am from Kosovo and Metohija, I must say, why not since 1945, why not, the biggest crime was committed against Serbs in 1945, when Politburo of the then Communist Party of Yugoslavia decided to ban the return of Serbs to Kosovo and Metohija, Pop Vlado Zecevic signed. What's going on? It repeats the tragic fate of the Serbian people. In 1999, Serbs relocated from Kosovo and Metohija and again the DOS does nothing to bring those Serbs back to their hearths, it is a shame, as if a 1945 Politburo decision and this 2000 politburo had been written. In the position (2) stands - the commission and other bodies of the lustration procedure are not authorised to apply the necessary measures to ensure the presence and participation of the person to whom the lustration procedure is conducted. They have no authority for any coercion, but that's why you didn't have, ladies and gentlemen, no authority to amnesty and no Fjore Brovine, no authority to amnesty to the Mazreka brothers, no authority to amnesty, not even a few hundred Shipatarian terrorists who were in prisons, so you've amnested them all. You lustrate Serbs from Kosovo and Meteohia in one of the roughest ways that exists in this civilized world. Don't do anything to make it possible for them to return to their hearths. Furthermore, in Article 14(3), paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: The bill states - all rights enjoyed by the person against whom criminal proceedings are being conducted, and the person to whom the lustration procedure is being conducted. So whoever's the object of lustration has his rights under criminal law, and that's the right to be innocent until proven guilty. However, all of your members in front of Article 14 are in collapsing with Article 14(3). You're referring to criminal law, criminal proceedings, and you're asking for someone to prove he's not guilty. Under criminal law, no one's guilty, the rule of innocence is until proven otherwise, and you're actually accusing, and then you're saying that the one who's lustrated or frustrated, I don't know what terms you're using, needs to prove his innocence. In the position (4) of Article 14 of the proposed law, it is stated - any violation of the procedural powers of the person under whom the lustration procedure is conducted constitutes an absolutely significant breach of the procedure. What kind of organ is that now? (President: 5 minutes. )......................................................................................................... to determine whether there has been an injury to the proceedings against someone who has been laxtrated. Who does the damaged party have to complain to? To the Supreme Court, to the Constitutional Court, to those who gave him that measure of lustration. The composition of the commission, as far as I could see, is made up of just those members who should later appeal. You go back to this lustration not 30 years ago, but five centuries ago, to that -- cadiya sues you, cadiya judges you. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30510	The word is by MP Dusan Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30511	Dear Presidency, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, in agreement with the MPs of the SPS Group, Slobodan Milosevic, I have submitted an amendment to Article 14 of this law, this legal farce, which is hidden behind Article 73. The Constitution of Serbia. The link with this article 73 is as firm as true, as it is true in chemistry that N 2O2 can be said to be water, because, for God's sake, the difference is only in that little wink underneath that, those two, all of these can be called water if judged under this law. In addition, this article 14 is also completely contrary to the Strasbourg Charter, because it reintroduces the moral-political resemblance of CK DOS President, and to remind you, I grew up with a moral-political resemblance, felt long ago in 1966 on my own skin. However, I remind you, there has been no moral-political resemblance in Serbia since 1990. But today, when you want to get a job, the first question is whether you are DS, and you can eventually get a job and pass, if you're from DOS, of course the right DOS. Today, I too have come to the solutions of Minister Gaša Knezevic, that the boards of secondary schools in Leskovec cannot enter those proposed by SO Leskovac. These school boards were formed while DOS was in power, but must remain in DOS composition, although in the legal recent elections, the winners lost power. It takes socialists and other parties in power, which are now in Leskovac, to take up the position of informants on these school boards. Since the DOS is now a marginal opposition in Leskovac, Gassa, by force of his signature, is keeping the informants where the people really don't want them. I wonder if there's going to be any kind of lustration. It is seen from this that the lustration of Gaša Knezevic has long been at work, and according to what he has already stood up as a manners, he knows that he is doing so without this law, as you have seen. What is it, a couple of excellencies, hypocrisy, and what an injustice it is when this Article 14 says, all the rights that enjoys the person against whom criminal proceedings are being conducted and the person to whom the lustration procedure is being conducted? My people, I don't understand how she can write and sign a professor like this. Dragor Hiber Law School, V.D. The president, the former lawyer, when I'm the engineer, it's clear to me that everything is exactly the opposite. The lustration comes from the principle of guilt, and you are neither guilty, nor obliged, at the moment of the individual, at the moment of a political opponent who was afraid that in some future elections there would be a face that was lustrated, you must prove innocence. When I was just getting off the phone, a colleague from the GSS, he's not here right now, he told me there was a letter against me from my secretary, who allegedly lost his job in October. Today and no hour and no minute has interrupted this lady whose letter he has, but he has had since, I don't know, 2000... (President: 5 minutes. )......................................................................................................... That's what I was told about this pay phone. So I think that lustration, if it comes from the principle of guilt, is really pointless. Now I have to be careful not to be warned, because I've mentioned the president's name several times. Since I am sure that those who have burned down the house of the Chief of Jablanic County, the names are known, and those who have forbidden to come before the court, have twice burned down the house of the Chief of Jablanic County, with damages that are close to two million. I think this is just a law against those political opponents who can possibly win the election. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30512	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30513	In addition to only ten members, the Proposer would like to transpose the entire Criminal Procedure Act and to arrange who the participants are in the process, how the individual's responsibility is examined, some of the rules of procedure, who initiates the procedure, obligations after the procedure has been initiated and the right to object and appeal. That's almost impossible. Neither so many members of the law can in any way protect the reputation and dignity and fundamental human rights of a man in defence, nor the bill provides that anyone can defend himself against the mass of data they have said and found in the BIA files. It's enough for someone to point a finger at someone and say, he was violating human rights, and he did that, that day and that day, and this commission would have to start working. I'm interested in what the promoter is up to. Whether this process is conducted in order to prevent such persons from taking part in public life in the future or to be branded. If they only wanted to be stamped to teach all those who do public work or future generations, then we should start with those who are no longer among us, from the dead, like Joseph Broz Tito. As early as 1990, the Serbian Chetnik movement, with Dr Vojislav Seselj headed, took off with the iron stake, carried by Dragan Todorovic, today's president of the Executive Board, in his hands at the House of Flowers, when you were all, most of you who now support this law, against it. Now it's past, it's no longer current for us. He seems to me in the Serbian people forever buried, unless he has stolen now through this law. Meanwhile, the documentation, which has been collected for years on who everything is, as well as in what way as an informant participated in the creation of this BIA archive, was printed in Dr Vojislav Seselj's book, which is now called "Glog's Cake in the DOS Heart". I recommend that you read it, and the position (2) of this Article 14, whose removal we are looking for, says that the commission and other bodies of the lustration procedure are not authorised to apply the necessary measures to ensure the presence and participation of the person under which the lustration procedure is conducted. Which fool will ever come to agree to be the subject of this procedure and try to defend himself against something he can't defend at all. Material evidence doesn't exist here. Facts cannot be established. There are only insinuations and the need for someone to stamp, so it's clear that what the court can do if the defendant or witness doesn't show up after the first, second call, send a police officer to lead the defendant to a forced path, there's no one here to do it, because you're aware that the police would hardly accept such a thing to take on themselves. All rights enjoyed by the person against whom criminal proceedings are being conducted and the person to whom the lustration procedure is being conducted. The question is whether from the introduction of an emergency and such a long term of detention, without a court decision, detainees have some rights or their position is much more difficult, we will only know about it when the case against the Serbian state begins to lead on these issues.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30514	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Lazar Marjanski and Hranislav Peric submitted. The word has been made by the People's Messenger Lazar Marjanski.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30515	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I asked this member to be deleted. I think this is a key member, and if this member were to delete so many things could be solved. So Article 11 is deleted, Article 3, Article 5, Article 1, Article 4, Article 14. I'm a previous procedure, which needs to be done, I think it's a little inappropriate. I'm not against those like Mr. Babic, me and Mrs. Gorica wore a staff. That's what ideology was, and that's what we agree on. Against those who have done evil, against those who have betrayed, betrayed their people, betrayed their present authority. Do you remember gentlemen in power when you were beaten, when you were imprisoned? You're with me now. That's what this Covic did. He betrayed Slobodan Milosevic. That's what Mihajlovic did, and JUL held power along with Mihajlovic. Let's get away from them first. Mr Perisic unimaginably betrayed Tito, the Yugoslav People's Army, betrayed Slobodan Milosevic, betrayed the Yugoslav Army, betrayed us, and betrayed you. That's what I'm saying, Mr. Babic says you knew all that. That's why, because of that past many of you sitting in these rooms in these benches know what they were doing. We shouldn't be ashamed, ashamed. The government is sweet, but it should be responsible. Surely in these rows and in these benches someone who has broken the law, human rights, should be lustrated. I agree much more than Mr. Babic, who says this law should be abolished and now I don't know whether to vote or listen to Babic, what to do.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30516	The word has been given by the People's MP, Hranislav Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30517	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, another member who, in my opinion, is crucial in this law. The procedure laid down in Article 11 of the proposal for a candidate shall be put in place by the Lustration Commission above all state and other institutions, contrary to the existing legal order. When we apply this article in practice, it will look like this: the subtitle of Article 15 reads "The motion for a candidate", and it is better to stand - before the elections to initiate proceedings against all who will run for office and are not members of the DOS, and that for all the functions listed in Article 11, which means that who is not a member of the DOS will not be able to run for those functions. The lustration procedure will be carried out according to persons who are candidates for the following functions: MPs of the National Assembly, President of the Republic, President and members of the Government, mayors, municipal presidents, secretaries of municipalities, etc. I don't think you've counted all the functions you can refer to as lustration. In the elections, it may bother you that you have not listed the following functions in article 11, the presidents of rural local communities, the presidents of home councils, the presidents of various associations, the presidents of football clubs. Maybe those people will bother you when the election's over. Article 15(3) states that the Lustration Commission will initiate proceedings against MPs of the National Assembly, the President of the Republic, the president of the municipality, but stands under the number 14 of the governors of the National Bank. Why would the commission, under official duty, start proceedings against the governor, when he has nothing to do with the previous functions. Maybe it's because Dinkic with long pipes entered the National Bank. He would probably have been replaced without lustration, but there is fear that the bank will not repeat it in the Serbian government.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30518	The word has a folk letter from Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30519	The amendment to Article 15, whose erasure we are looking for, is another attempt to convince the promoter in time to give up this insane idea, because the elections will be lustrated by the Civil League. The Civil Union, if it does not join the Democratic Party again, will not pass the censorship, that is certain, you have never politically existed. Therefore, you don't need lustration, all of them, and similar to you, with this political capacity, will be lustrated by the people, only that the harmful consequences can lead to those who have dragged you on your back so far. According to the person who is a candidate for the post under Article 11 of this Law, a prior lustration procedure is being conducted. This previous lustration procedure implies that the authorities and organisations responsible for running, selecting and setting up certain categories of persons referred to in Article 11, undertake those bodies to submit, without delay, a request for human rights violations. You can imagine the number of people, after or before the local elections, who have to be checked. Imagine, the government changes, so the directors of public enterprises normally change, many other holders of some important functions change, it's everywhere in the world -- the government changes, the whole administration changes. We still haven't had that much wave yet, but since we have as an example of America for a lot of things, after the next election, it's going to have to look like the entire DOS administration is packing up the bags. Such a climate is being created, although it is not necessary, because red tape, whatever it is, needs to be nurtured and professionalized in some way, that it remains essentially the same, regardless of who comes to power, and those people who draw basic strings, related to the implementation of some policy, are of course variable. Maybe that's why you didn't go to the level of local government here in terms of the chief of staff, the head of the department, but you stayed with the secretary of the municipal assembly, I assume that's your reason. But when it comes to verifying persons referred to in points 1, 2, 4 and 14 of Articles 11, which are MPs, it is the President of the Republic, the Mayor, the President and the Deputy President of the municipality, as well as the Governor and Vice-Governor, that check is official. So, one political party submits a list of candidates, if there are 250, that list goes to check and then one who organises elections assesses the capacity that a person on the list carries with him, how many voters, depending, of course, and the number of voters in some part of that constituency. It is not the same, for example, Belgrade and Babusnica, depending on where it comes from. Of course, he's trying to correct that list and correct it the way it suits her. We're already hearing what election law you're preparing and how many years you've been bringing us back, and we're not far from experiencing those elections, like when I first voted in 1974, so there were just as many candidates as there was a choice, so since I didn't know what I needed to choose, my father explained it to me - Gordana, just take it and round everything. These were these democratic elections that I first joined, and I hope that we will no longer have the opportunity to vote in such a way. That's why I don't think it's a good idea for you to question the parliamentary lists that will go to the polls in this way.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30520	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 16 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Milovan Radovanovic and Hranislav Peric submitted. The word is made by Parliamentarian Milovan Radovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30521	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group, in order to prevent you from passing this law, has also submitted to Article 16 of the amendment seeking to delete the entire member. It is our intention, of course, to try to prevent you from passing this law that is, above all, undemocratic and contrary to our legal order, our legal system, is contrary to the provisions that the Constitutional Charter of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, and the Constitution of Serbia that regulates human rights issues from Articles 11 to 55. Your bill is also against the International Pact on Human and Political Rights, as well as the Charter of Human and Political Rights and Civil Liberties. In the Serbian Radical Party, if the truth is determined by the fact that truth and arguments are determined, it is not afraid of your intention to try first and foremost to prevent some opposition parties, primarily the SRS and individuals in the SRS, through the will of the people, hopefully in some free elections, come to power and take significant part in Serbia's parliament and in responsible functions, both in executive and legislative power. It scares us of your intention to carry out against the legal order, against the legal system, against the truth and against justice. In particular, as regards the provisions of this Article 16. The bill, which treats the procedure that is being initiated before a major commission, which I think is a kind of multi-party politburo in the single-party system, makes the Commission look into the files of a security-informative agency or other relevant services, in court files, the files of other state authorities and organisations that exercise public authority. Now you, who have simply dared to pass such a law, do you think, have thought about having insight into the BIA files, will come across a clue that speaks of the act and insubordination of Dusan Mihajlovic, the current interior minister, at a time when he worked and was in state security, and even later, as well as some people of BIA. Do you think, especially you from the Civil League of Serbia, when you reach the BIA file, earlier national security, what is the code called "Socrates", which is related to Goran Svilanovic? I believe he initially worked as a state security spy under pressure, I really believe that. But later, it became his habit, his maltenes, and his pleasure. Will you find an argument in that too for the lustration of these people? Or, when you run into the BIA and Homeland Security files with data on the behaviour of Neboja Covic, about taking, not to say hijacking and stealing of a plug factory in Bela Manastir, its illegal entry into Serbia and selling later in Bulgaria. It's illegal and illegal business, as you say, FMP Trade. (President: It expires for the fifth minute. And many other facts. When you enter the judicial records check for current Serbian Prime Minister Zoran Zivkovic, where there is a court ruling, under which the company "Technomedik", whose owner he owned, to repay the debt to the "Electron Industry" of 75,000 marks, is thus left unfinished, as well as to other companies in Aleksinec, for which I know, I am in Aleksinac and I know employers to whom he owed. Is that where you're gonna do the lustration? You in the Democratic Party should worry and think about the consequences of this law. Believe me, many of you are going to hit the very provisions of this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30522	Has anyone else signed up for this amendment? The People's MP, Hranislav Peric, applied for the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30523	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, our proposal is to delete article 16, and I'd like to say the reasons. The proposed principle of commission work has elements and charges and defences, as well as judgments, which resembles a classical method of work that is characteristic of the Middle Ages. Article 16 The bill speaks of human rights violations and foresees the commission's obligations after the procedure is launched - to make sure that the persons of Article 11 have violated human rights. The Commission shall inform the authority and organisations, on the basis of the verification carried out, in writing and within seven days of the completion of the verification, as well as the applicant of whether the candidate for the post has violated human rights. The Commission is completing the procedure and anyone who is assessed to be able to perform the post, and from the opposition's ranks, will necessarily get that he has violated human rights. Since this law has been proposed by the Civil League, only this party is eligible for this law on human rights violations, because if everyone could be banned from running for office, that would be best for them, that way they could only come up with certain functions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30524	Thank you. Is there anyone else to answer for this amendment? The word has a folk letter from Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30525	After the proceedings have been initiated, or even in the course of the previous proceedings, the Commission should, by way of an end to the court, as one of the larger ones, since it is so intended to work, to investigate the responsibility for human rights violations, should carry out an examination of whether persons under Article 11 of this Law have violated human rights. How's he gonna run that check? By looking at the BIA files, or before the D.B.A., or earlier O.N.E., and I don't know how far they're still going, but they can also use the files of other state authorities and organizations. Maybe you, and I believe you did, took advantage of that opportunity to make an insight into your files at the BIA, to see what it says there about you. It's possible there's a lot of things out there. None of you know what can be found in those files again, in your files. To me, I'm honestly telling you, it was never interested, nor did any member of the Serbian Radical Party ever leave, not even when he was able to make an insight into that file, to look at what it said in that file. We know who we are and who we are. They can write whatever they want there. It can't be proof of anything: we either admit everything that exists in the files, or we don't admit it. We can't have the time to build on it, that even in a court of law, we don't consider it material evidence in a regular procedure in front of regular courts, and then here, also in some trial here, and that information and that documentation from the Security Information Agency remains as the only evidence and the only document based on which we can stamp someone. I strongly advise you not to do this, but to let the Security Information Agency do its job the way it does. There is a man responsible for the management of a security-informative agency, there is a interior minister, who is also responsible for all that is done in the framework of this service and the regular composition of the MUP. There's no need for us to get involved in this, and now we're initiating a phenomenon, a mass appearance of some new gypsies who'd go to the president of the state and taste the security-intelligence agency. You've seen after the state of emergency, the MUP has even opened a website through which anyone can report some alleged crime. It was just inciting that the neighbor started accusing everyone and all sorts of things: I saw him take out six bags of garbage, and he was piling it up for a week, he wasn't taking it out on a regular basis, so he probably had one of those monster killers, or who knows what else. It's a craziness, which the state can cost a lot, and we should go towards simplifying all this, that this work is done by professionals. It's clear to all of us that someone has to do it and that someone has to do it, but not in the way you imagined it.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30526	Any of the other authorized applicants come forward for a word? The word is from MP Zarko Obradovic, president of the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30527	My colleague Andric asked me why. I said, "Because of the file." In fact, at the meeting of the Justice Committee, discussing this law, I asked a question and received an answer from Professor Hiber. I have to tell you what I heard back then from Professor Hiber. The essence of this law and of the whole lustration and accountability process is based on documents of the Security-Informative Agency. Then I didn't get an answer, at least not an answer that I would be happy with, to my asked question: "Can the Agency's documents be trusted? ". Even though we socialists are absolutely against this law, because we believe that it is a political law, with an absolutely present note of rematchism, I asked the following question: If it really was wanted, why did it not happen in 2000, but in 2003, with 30 and a few months late? If it was done in 2000, who knows what would happen? Believe me, I wish the documents were open at the time and we had the opportunity to see what was in those archives of the State Security Service, who was doing what, who was ordering, who was helping, etc. I would also like this because, in the position (4) of this member, it is said of persons who have initiated, ordered their notices and otherwise participated in human rights violations. It would be interesting to see who all the people who worked with the National Security Service are. In what way they worked, who they were showing, in which human rights violations participated, in what way. I think it might make sense then. Now, after two and a half years, I'm completely convinced, and I have the right to doubt it, the documents are not valid, obviously there was more cleaning of these documents, so to speak. Besides, from Professor Hiber, I heard a term "polluted documents." This means that someone was changing their content, probably subtracting and adding what was appropriate or corresponding to the content of the document. In any case, it is likely that a number of documents, i.e. files, have been deleted, and everything indicates that this story of lustration and violation of human rights is related to individual liability, that it will be absolutely subjective to character, i.e. for those who do not need to be the object of lustration, the file will be cleaned or destroyed, and for those who need to be the object of lustration, it is certain that the file will be polluted in that other, positive sense. For this reason, we have also suggested that this article be deleted, particularly because we believe that the law is not right, and this article shows which documents will build a lustration process.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30528	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 16 of the amendment, MP Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović submitted. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. ) The act promoter accepts the amendment. Members of the 17th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Vitomir Plužarević and Golub Rajic. Do the applicants want a word? The People's Messenger Golub Rajic, and the People's Messenger Vitomir Plužarevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30529	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, in front of the SPS parliamentary group, on the proposal for a law on liability for human rights violations, for the Socialists, an unconstitutional and unacceptable law, on Article 17, as well as on Article 24, I have submitted an amendment, where I have proposed that Article 17 be deleted, on the grounds that, instead of the presumption of innocence, the proposed provision of this article imposes the principle of presumption of guilt, contrary to the basic principles of a positive legal order and our legislation. Article 17 of this law defines the rights of the candidate under whom the ex ante lustration procedure is conducted, where the candidate for lustration, who was found to have violated human rights, can make an insight into the files and documents and, within seven days, inform the commission that he has given up his candidacy or to object to the commission. I don't think this is a good solution, because if it's a political opponent, he can be pressured to give up his candidacy and challenge his basic right to choose and be chosen. If he announces an objection to the commission and the decision of the committee rejected, he may appeal to the Constitutional Court, which is unconstitutional. The jurisdiction of the Constitutional Court shall be defined in Article 125. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and they can only be extended by changing the Constitution. I do not think the proposed composition of the commission is in line with the provisions of the Constitution and the Law on Judges, as well as the Law on Public Prosecutor, since judges and prosecutors, according to those rules, cannot perform other paid public functions. It is also related to Article 24. Just two sentences, since I'm late and I won't explain it. There is a disputed position (1) of this member, which is anti-constitutional, as it determines that two members of the commission are judges of the Constitutional Court, which is not in accordance with the provision of Article 126. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, where it is prescribed that judges of the Constitutional Court cannot perform other public functions or professional activity. It is also disputable to be defined as two members of the commission to be MPs, just a graduate lawyer. The position (2) of this member, which provides that the members of the commission are to be proposed by the President of the Republic, is also opposed to Article 83. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Because of the Commission's composition and the anti-constitutional position (1) and (2), and the position (3) is also disputed, I think that is sufficient reason for these amendments to be accepted and for these anti-constitutional members of the law to be deleted.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30530	The word is from MP Vitomir Plužarević, who submits amendments in the same text.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30531	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Serbian Radical Party has submitted an amendment to Article 17 of this law and it reads that article 17 is deleted. We believe that this law, and this article, is not a real fact and thinking that leads to progress in this country. Article 17 mentions a candidate who prefers to be a member of the 11th law, and during the previous period he has committed human rights violations, has the right to gain insight into the famous record within seven days. And so this whole article makes an impression, and the whole law, that a trial is being conducted against these political insolents, or future candidates from Article 11 of this Law. The emergency law has already been seen, i.e. it already has a negative mark on all those laws that were passed in the weather and which were intended for the employer’s wish. None of the MPs today in the Assembly can tell what it is by emergency procedure -- that expression of the International Pact on Civil and Political Rights, that guidance and this law have produced all the troubles that have happened to us lately. Imagine it today over Iraq and yesterday over our land. They destroy you first, and then they send all the institutions to bring you back to life. Now, that science and technology still can't bring those two things together. Well, all those who give impulses to our society today are the destroyers of Serbian beings and peoples. The ultimate goal is for the Serbian exponents to bring us down to them an imaginary number. How and where you imagined to do the lustration, that is, to clean up or clean up a certain number of people who are the opposition today, so you are the most and most politically afraid of these people. You feel that this lustration will prohibit them from political action. You're wrong. Behind all these individuals are citizens. So these citizens need to be lustrated. This law of yours is unacceptable. To regulate areas called lustration, not only does there not exist a constitutional basis, but almost all of the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia make it legally impossible to edit the lustration in the way proposed by the Serbian Civil Union group. The political group in Serbia received 0.05% of the electoral body in the last elections, and they want and smiled to highlight the law as their own. You represent this law as a new foundation for political action in our country. You're sick of that foundation, there's nothing on it that can build anything that can lead to the country's improvement and progress. The law is remandist. This law introduces a commission system, and the commission system is a parallel court where the government will judge non-imaginatives. Coming to the DOS authorities immediately demonstrated this law, except that they did not then call it that, they did not know to call it that today's name, but they did so by means of strike groups, or people who entered companies and dealt with former directors of these companies. The first phase of your law, i.e. the law of lustration, was applied to us by Serbian radicals, and I will remind you: as soon as you came to power, you immediately set out to take away our premises in Zemun, and then you headed for the Serbian Radical Party's jeep, and you took it spectacularly from Serbian radicals in the centre of Beograd. That was your start, there's you chandeliers. The DOS government used the term "the previous government is responsible for everything that is happening to you and what is going to happen to us" for these three years in each first and final sentence. They used that by vertical and horizontal. We Serbian radicals are not afraid of this law, because we believe that the greatest damage to this law will be suffered by the current power. All those files that were supposed to come out on a day-to-day basis are not available and are not accessible to people who are not sitting in power today. In his latest comments on human rights and human rights violations, the DOS casts out a platform, supporting Javier Solana and George Bush, to allow American citizens not to be subjected to international and international courts and to human rights violations. This comment also has its price - probably those dollars will not be seen by our people and our country, but will be addressed to known addresses. How will you gentlemen lute your people to begin the lustration? You will certainly not do this, but know that this law will be welcomed by the authorities, only the members of the commission will change and they will be other people, which, put in the language of the people, means we will be waiting for you in the fall of the election. We'll deal with lustration for the next 10 years. Well, that's also the goal, not to deal with the creation of economy and economy. If a rule of law had been created in Serbia, there would have been no lustration, if a rule of law had been created in Serbia, this authority would not have been our authority. This proposed law is a suspended court, it's the predecessor of the Golog Island or Siberia, we just don't know yet a new location where you'll lustrate political opponents, and we'll probably find out soon enough.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30532	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? The word has a folk MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30533	Candidates for positions referred to in Article 11, you already know who these are, are covered by almost all future state officials, holders of certain public functions, have the right to, within seven days of the date of receipt of a human rights violation notice, and have been informed by this commission, to make an insight into their files and all those documents to serve as evidence based on which the larger, or the Commission itself, has already established a violation of human rights. So there's already a preliminary decision, you've violated human rights, now he's come to take a look at those documents, and he needs to announce that he's giving up his candidacy. I'm convinced that whoever of you is going to go and look at that paperwork and all the garbage that's written there, I'd say, God forbid they bring this out to the public, first I can't wash it at home if it's not true, my marriage breaks, who knows what's going to happen to the kids, they're going to give me up in public through the papers, and I'm just about to run for office. It's a direct consequence of that. I'm a bit of a cartoonist, but that's it. Imagine for yourselves what is possible to write here and make mistakes, of course in the meantime, especially when this law is passed and if it is valid evidence. The aim, therefore, is precisely what the position (2) states - it says to the council that it is giving up on the candidacy or it is able to object, which will rarely happen, given the practice that will be established and there will be very little or almost no case of any objection or after the appeal to the Constitutional Court to wash away this scarcity and wash itself. If this person in the position (1) gives up his candidacy, the commission will immediately inform the authority for which he has run, or an organisation responsible for running, possibly the RIK or the municipal electoral commission, or the Government or the like, and if he submits an objection, the commission will again hold a session in three days, because these are all emergency procedures, it will continue to resolve by appeal. Against the decision of the panel to which he has been rejected, or rejected, the objector may appeal to the Constitutional Court within seven days of the date of receipt of this decision. Now that Constitutional Court, two of which are already in the commission that has decided on it, decides most of the votes, so the filing of complaints already has two advances against it. Who now believes in some trial and some justice. There's no justice, there's just this, there's a commission, there's dirty material in the BIA wrong against a person, he sees it giving up his candidacy and says, "Goodbye, pack it, and they're saving it for the next chance. At that moment, he is aware that he has ended any political career, raises his hands from it, and if there is an arch of the country to dig for onions and plant potatoes and so we have cleared up Serbia's political scene. We've sent one to The Hague, we're going to judge others here, because we hear from the government that a bill is going to go to trial war criminals here in our country, it's this special court by the name of The Hague itself, and what can't even be tried, will be tried under this law and no more politics. No more politics, no more politics, no more politics, we're going back nicely to a single-party and delegate system, the government of MPs will delegate to parliament, and that's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30534	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 17, the amendment was submitted by Parliament of the People, Gordana Komic. The representative of the proposed act shall accept the amendments. Is anyone else answering for a word? No, I don't. ) The motion for an act of acceptance and any amendments stemming from the amendment to Article 17 because the amendment to Article 17 of the Statute (5) to replace the words "Constitutional Court" with the words "The Supreme Court of Serbia", so that all of the following members, wherever the Constitutional Court is mentioned in this context, should be mentioned by the Supreme Court. All the other members of the amendment, which is referred to as "the Constitutional Court", are replaced by the words "the Supreme Court of Serbia", I will read with a note that the motion for an act in the debate in particular on the amendment has said that it accepts all amendments arising from the adoption of this amendment because the Constitutional Court is mentioned in other members. Members of the 18th Amendment were submitted by MPs Dragan Pavlovic and Jovan Todorovic. Do the applicants want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Dragan Sl. Pavlovic, followed by MP Jovan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30535	I do not know why the Legislative Committee has rejected an amendment explaining that the offensive qualification is contained in the reasons for the amendments. I ask you, gentlemen, what is offensive if I say that there is no constitutional basis for the adoption of this law? This is also recognised by lawmakers who are calling for a member of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and the one who is prescribed that the National Assembly adopts laws. Of course, that is not enough, because the constitutional basis must be a provision of the Constitution from which the authority to regulate a particular area, i.e. the content and essence of a specific legal relationship, arises. To regulate areas called lustration, not only does there not exist a constitutional basis, but almost all of the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia make it legally impossible to edit the lustration as proposed by the GSS MPs. The adoption of this bill, which is so obvious that, contrary to the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and to the surprise of the proponents, it is contrary to the International Civil and Political Rights Pact, the National Assembly, protecting human rights, in fact enables the most brutal violation of human rights, and this results from the fact that the bill is essentially retroactive and negates the existence and application of all the rules that have not yet been established not to be compatible with the legal acts binding the Republic of Serbia. Under the provisions of the procedure, any, so far known, minimum rights belonging to the person and proceedings against that person shall be denied. The bill is clearly aimed at ensuring, through the lustration of the GSS and its similar political parties, which never go to the polls on their own, because they do not have a political foothold in the will of the people, that they provide participation in the government and that by banning the political functioning of individuals and those political parties that are not at the will of foreign officials. The second goal to achieve this process is to destroy and suppress anything that represents an authentic expression of the will of the Serbian people, which is recognised by the promoters, because for the lustration proposed by the foothold they find in a denanciation as an concept that associates with something applied in fascist Germany, and for such a thing, not only do there not exist conditions in Serbia, but only thinking about it offends the dignity and pride of the Serbian people. The National Assembly must not, under the pressure of the GSS, adopt a law establishing the UN tribunal's outcast department in Belgrade for collective and supplementary self-judgment by the system, what The Hague misses, the GSS ends it. With this amendment, we are expressing a principled constitutional and political stance not to adopt this bill, and in this context we are proposing that members be deleted.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30536	Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate coming forward for a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Jovan Todorovic, the applicant for the amendment, and the MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, as deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30537	Mrs. Komic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I must say that it is not fair of the motion that he does not usually attend the debate on these amendments, nor listens to the reasons of the amendment promoters, and if the minister, I would understand, there are certain obligations in the Government, etc. But a fellow MP has proposed on behalf of the GSS parliamentary group this law and indeed does not respect either the dignity of this assembly, nor us as MPs, and I believe also my MP groups who have proposed the law, since most of the debate is not present in the hall. On behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, I suggested that this member, who regulates the issue of appeal, be deleted. So three are the basic reasons for that. First, because I think even if the law were passed, the member who regulates how the appeal should look and what elements should be contained is too high. Secondly, because it is so formulated that it is very difficult to draw the conclusion that this should look like an appeal to the decision of the Commission to the Constitutional Court, and to be accepted and accepted by whom, at least in a formal sense. Third and primary, because retaining this member in itself would be a violation of the human rights of those persons to whom this lustration procedure applies. On the one hand, we are talking about how we should lustrate and determine who violated human rights, and with the member himself we prescribe the obligation to violate human rights. Please, fellow MPs from the parliamentary majority in the assembly, read this article. Since I believe most of them haven't read or had no patience, I'll read it myself. It is said: "Only the facts which the candidate made likely that he did not know about them or that he could not know about them, that is to say, only the evidence which seems likely to have been obtained or arisen after the Commission made a decision on the complaint referred to in Article 17(2) of this Law. “ So I had an objection to the committee’s position, that is, its decision. Now I could appeal to the Constitutional Court, so I've been told what I have to do to make everything possible and who I believe to be, and on what grounds it's likely, and with what documents I need to make legal regulation possible, and when it's likely to be. Everything's open in this article. In fact, I'm interpreting that whoever is once declared a person who has violated human rights doesn't actually have one formal-legal and essentially an acceptable mechanism to complain about this procedure, with real hope that he can collect evidence of his innocence and that he can refer the relevant appeal to the Constitutional Court, which, I think, will seriously consider. Mrs. Comic has suggested that we replace everything where she writes - the Constitutional Court, with the words of the Supreme Court. So, in that case, they'd appeal to the Supreme Court. If we do everything like that, then look at the composition of the commission. So far, there have been two members of the Supreme Court, two members of the Constitutional Court, and that means now we will have four members of the Supreme Court, or the Supreme Court judge in the commission of nine members. Is that okay? Then indeed one of the fellow MPs is right to say, cadiya sues you, cadiya judges you. In particular, we have the opportunity for two MPs to be in the commission, with them unable to be from the same parliamentary groups, which means that at least one of them will be in power. I wouldn't want to talk about other illogicalities. Take, for example, Article 11, in which the Governor of the National Bank is, at point 14, equalised as the MP in the lustration procedure, as the President of the Republic, i.e. candidate for the President of the Republic, as the President of the Municipality, or vice president of the municipality. (Micovic, from the scene: We are all the same before the law. () What's similar, colleague Micovic? There's nothing like it. MPs are elected as candidates on election lists of political parties, I have not heard that there is a country in the world that chooses the governor by being candidates of political parties for the governor, so that the commission in the previous procedure determines its moral-political resemblance, whether or not it has violated any human rights. How can the governor of the National Bank ever do his job to violate human rights without being removed by the person who put him in that place?
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30538	Five minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30539	It's not elected amongst the more candidates, it's not elected on proportional lists. Please think about this. This law is also so confusing, so heterogeneous, but this section relating to the complaint in Article 18 is really for erasure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30540	The word has a folk MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30541	If the promoter had already wanted to establish some rules as in the Code of Criminal Procedure, then he had to do it in a better way than this, as he arranged the law of appeal in Article 18, and it is truly amazing that it conditioned what everything in the complaint could stand. That's never been anywhere before. Kadiya sues you, the cadiya judges you and still conditiones you what you can make in your complaint, so she says, only if she makes it likely that the facts didn't know you or that she couldn't know about them at the time when the commission made the decision on the complaint. So within three days of the commission's decision, he needs to collect some new facts and prove he had no idea about it, but later someone told him or came to him, I apologize, from ass to head, so he remembered. I mean, this is really scary. I don't understand the purpose of this appeal at all. You'd better write, there's no complaint, we're going to go further and we're done. This is how you make a farce, as you conduct a procedure, so there is some previous procedure, so there is a larger commission, then a commission, then a complaint, then a subsequent procedure, and the rules of the Criminal Procedure Act are applied accordingly. It's all a mess, so go ahead, it's only important in this law that what's listed in Article 11, and what's in Article 16, what's the means of proof, and what's in Article 17, that whoever's the object of lustration has the only possibility of telling a larger commission that he's giving up his candidacy, which is obviously the sole objective of this law. Article 34 represents the finals of the whole law. You didn't need any of this in between. It's just supposed to confuse the opponent. Since we don't get confused, we have your intentions well-translated and you can't convince us that this will lead to Serbia's democratisation. It can lead to Serbia's derbification, but democratisation can't be done at all. The goals are exactly the way they are, it's your political decision, we can't convince you, otherwise we can't convince you, although we've tried and talked to many over the past 12 years, call your senses, it's no good what you're doing, it's got to be, it's better for everyone. You don't need a revolution in power, you don't need a crash, you don't need a burn, you're gonna get it back. You're not listening. Things happen that happen after you as a boomerang, and then you don't wake up again, but you keep falling apart. If you want to crash, come on, but we'll convince you a little more.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30542	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 19 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic. The word is made by MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30543	We have reached a member who speaks of a subsequent procedure, i.e. the initiation of proceedings, and in Article 19, it is said that according to the person who is taking office under Article 11 of this Act, the commission shall initiate and carry out an ex post lustration procedure under official duty. In Article 11, MP Hranislav Peric already spoke of the member, among other persons who are subject to responsibility for human rights violations and against whom a lustration procedure is being initiated under official duty are MPs of the National and Regional Assembly, President of the Republic, Mayors, etc. We have a strange situation that someone chosen by the people chosen by the citizens may be called upon to be held accountable and against him to be subjected to a lustration procedure by a commission that makes up 10 or no matter how many members. Before this law, we received a decision from the Constitutional Court saying that the terms of office belong to the MPs. So, not to the political parties, not to the organisations that proposed them, they ran for the elections, but to the MPs, and in the lustration process someone is left without a mandate, someone else will come to his post from the list, with which a conversation may be held, and there is always most DOS, there are always 130 or 128, 135 MPs, and the stock market has already started to operate. Some are listed more expensive, some cheaper, but they are mostly whispered in the halls about possible crossings from this camp to this camp, and we already have examples that some MP groups have formed, as if they knew in advance what will happen and what is happening in this assembly. The Constitutional Court said in a comment that the MP only corresponds to voters from the territory of the constituency he was elected to, and here he is to meet some commissions. Who can change the will of the people? Let's just say we don't blame anyone for ideological delusions in the past. Many here organized landings on May 25th and Comrade Tito's birthday. Some of us sitting here wearing a May 25th staff. My friend Sima Radulovic walked three times from Nis to Tito's grave, but it was his ideology, it was a matter of prestige and of course, he cried. They tried to deserve the honor of wearing a staff, to go to another Tito's grave, and we don't blame anyone. Mr. Micovic, it's about human rights. When they're dog rights, then we'll discuss it. So, gentlemen, to whom the people have chosen, who is here on behalf of the people and speaks for that number of voters who have chosen him, you cannot judge and judge his work. He'll answer to them. Perhaps his constituents are just expecting him to say so, to say so, to represent such attitudes. It's already become funny to talk about who's proposing this law. The law suggests that a party whose senior official, Mrs. Barbulovic, in Nis, brought its bodyguards who beat up a well-known actor, Mimi, was then crazed, remained seriously ill; those in Nis are considered to be a small party of dangerous intentions. So, if it's from the Civil League, it's a lot.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30544	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by MP Goran Cvetanovic. The word is made by MP Goran Cvetanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30545	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Civil Union of Serbia has obviously opened Pandora's box. Simply human rights have been violated backwards and you can see it from many examples. Many people have graduated from high-average colleges, almost nine, and for over 10 years they couldn't get to work. Is that a violation of human rights? If you don't have a chance after education, after school, to get a job and how it's a violation of human rights. If Mr. Zoran Zivkovic was speaking to the people at the time of Nis Mayor and suggested they were not paying the EPS bills, and then on October 5th, he came to an even greater power, and these same people were forced to regulate the accounts. Meanwhile, accounts have become enormously high and many have been cut off by electricity. There are a really large number of cases where old ladies, pensioners, because they didn't receive pensions in good time couldn't pay off that debt distribution, which wasn't really real after all. That's why they had health problems, so there was exitus. Who will now represent their human rights and who will answer for those rights that were then violated? Back in the six or seven years, many women healthcare professionals, doctors, medical technicians, nurses were admitted to medical centres according to Article 14. They worked for about three months and then their contracts were extended for six or seven years in a row. These women were able to stay in a different state and stay in a different state, but they couldn't bring their pregnancy to an end because they lost their jobs. Thus, they could not create a material situation to take care of their family. Their personal rights and how threatened they were. Who's supposed to answer for that? I guess the directors of those health centers, who were in those functions. (Milka Marinkovic: Don't yell. Milka, you can yell at yourself at home. He may be your frigid husband, but act polite here. (Milka Marinkovic: So do you.) Don't yell. ) Article 16 says - The security-intelligence agency should have insight into all the files. Many DOS were disappointed after October 5th when they went to DB looking for their files, and they were gone. Serbian radicals never asked for it, obviously they're not interested, because they have nothing to be afraid of. Why do you think there are valid files of national security, where the Legion was a member, worked for national security, even though you were warned in 2001 by the Serbian Radical Party about what the Legion is doing and what it does, and you did nothing. Why should we now trust these same people, who worked during that time period, that what they did, those files, and the state security files, that it's credible and that we should believe it based on these files that we arrest people or make it impossible for them to deal with political or other work. (Borivoj Katic: Can this be quieted down a little bit?) You can't sleep, sir. It can't be quiet. You're sleeping, and Natasha Micic just slept, but there's got to be something going on here. Who's sleeping? You're reading. In Article 17, it is obvious that in the second position it is only important that individual political factors, which are relevant, unlike the Civil Union of Serbia, be forced to give up their candidacy. The civil union of Serbia has the president of the assembly, acting president of Serbia, foreign minister, mayor of Belgrade, but the problem is that there are ten other members of the party who are not in the positions of the government and now to find the possibility that the ten members of the Civil Union of Serbia should also put on responsible positions then have to get the competition off the political stage. Only through this law can they accomplish something, but usually someone else's pit digs itself into it. Article 18 is really funny, because a better complaint is not written than when it's said that the proposings only give the evidence they need to be made likely. You know, when someone deals with the law, there can't be anything likely: it is or otherwise; it has legal options or it doesn't. So that article 20 and how it should be deleted.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30546	Do any of the other authorized participants want to take a word for it? The word has a folk MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, deputy president, the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30547	Articles 19, 20 and 21 refer to the subsequent procedure, to the initiation of the procedure. (President: I ask the MPs to remember the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and to listen to a payphone with attention and respect and to stop throwing between benches and speakers). Since this is about a subsequent procedure towards the person who is taking up office under Article 11, and the member himself includes all of us here, the commission would launch and carry out an ex post lustration procedure under official duty. Now, if we had confidence in that commission, let's say, if we didn't know what her goal was, which we'd mind doing so. But we do know, and today it is a real pain to gather the parliamentary majority to vote these laws that we had on the agenda at this session, and to later overturn this assembly a little bit, according to the current loose majority of the congregation. Must, they say, this power to endure another few months, the reserve variant is ready, getting ready, a little bit more education, has gone to those who have left, to show the OSCE that few are better than those who are currently in the O.R. and that they are obedient. It is a clear goal - to reverse the will of the people, not to have 250 MPs sitting here as political parties with their lists and political coalitions went to the polls Well, go, you got your job, you got your wind, you got that job done, I made lunch this morning, I got a nice ironing, I got some sleep, and I came to work. [["Aman's wife"?]] I ask you to protect me from these throws. It would be your turn to show once that you treat all MPs equally. To me, so anyone can throw whatever they want, "Aman Woman," I'm no woman here, I'm a fellow Member here, and for you I'm a lady, I've been working here all day, and you could respect it, no matter how much you don't like what I'm saying. I expect you to apologize to me, but later, after I get off the phone. Rules of procedure in the subsequent lustration procedure - the same rules are applied from Articles 16 to 18 and, of course, the oral debate goes beyond that and the subsequent application, of course, of the Criminal Procedure Act. Again, this subsequent procedure is wrapped up in some formula, here, in three members. But, I say, it only concerns those who are currently in the way of the DOS to maintain power through the artificially and illegally created majority in the National Assembly. We'll see tonight who votes for this bill, who makes an extra quorum for you, because you don't have 126 MPs to vote tonight, we'll see who's going to be the object of lustration. Those who do the quorum have already passed the lustration. You've already shown them what you have for them. You will slowly take one by one, as your messengers will be taken away from you, but the Constitutional Court has said, "Every messenger has his mandate, so will you do." Just because of that Constitutional Court decision, I can't say it's unconstitutional, but it's against the Constitution, there's a law like this to continue trading.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30548	Is there anyone else who wants to take a word from the authorized students? No, I don't. ) We move on to Article 21, to which amendments, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Dragan Colic and Joca Arsic. Do the applicants want a word? The word is made by MP Dragan Colic. Once again, I ask the MPs to listen with attention to all speakers, with full awareness that the topic is controversial, that we are tired of today's work and that the way the Rules of Procedure is applied during the Presidency is such that some MPs are allowed a little bit more than usual, but I ask you to pay attention to the speaker. Here you go, MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30549	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have tabled an amendment to the bill of responsibility for human rights violations, in which I request that Article 21 be deleted. The motivation to submit amendments is contained in the opinion of us Serbian radicals that the bill contains nothing good, nothing positive and that its elemental function - the elimination of political opponents. The bill promoter should also convince me with arguments, and with his authority, that he is serious, relevant, that he is of respect, that he is of authority. Analysing the promoter, and I didn't find it difficult, I come to the realization that it was a minor political party that, going to the polls alone, won 0.05% of the vote, which should certainly be respected. Kadarovski is extremely strong -- Natasa Micic, Goran Svilanovic, Gašo Knezevic and a party that has strong support for the Democratic Party and foreign employers who do not think well of Serbian citizens. There is no constitutional basis for the adoption of this law. To regulate areas called lustration, almost all provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia suggest that it is legally impossible to edit the lustration in the manner proposed by the MPs of the Civil Union of Serbia. I could rather be associated with the frustration of the promoters and representatives of the DOS-Mali government, not the lustration. The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has an opportunity to enter into the history of impoverishment if it would vote on this sacrament, which would allow... (President: Please, by respecting the Rules of Procedure, say at least one sentence about the content of the amendment. That's exactly what I'm talking about. (President: I warn you of the obligation to discuss the content of the amendment in particular the speaker for the speaker, with the freedom of argument. It ends in the third minute, and you haven't said a single sentence about the content of your amendment. I think the law is nakarad. (President: I warn you that you have an obligation to respect the Rules of Procedure. ) Those political parties that do not exist on the ground, which do not have a standoff in the electoral body, want to eliminate political opponents at the "green table", because they know they have no chance on the ground. All those who are nationalally aware, their nations, history, traditions, faith and culture, all those whose country is Serbia above all else, are not willing... (President: National MP, I warn you that you become aware of the obligation of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. (Just a little patience, so you'll understand the essence of the amendment. )......................................................................................................... They are not at the will of foreign officials, and only for this reason should this bill be prohibited and their functioning disabled. This bill begins the process of desrbification.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30550	People's MP, I give you a warning, this is a debate in detail, not a principle debate. You've had five hours for a principle debate. Please, you have another minute and 30 seconds below, talk about the content of the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30551	It is suppressing everything that faithfully represents the will of the Serbian people. Compared to fascist Germany, through the idea of denanciation, insult and pride, and honor and the name of Serbia. In the National Assembly are MPs, bearers of various political options and ideology. There are those whose mother Serbia is above all interest. Teached by examples of their ancestors, they continue on the path of which the borders are marked by the graves and costumes of their great-grandfathers. There are others who are the example of a silver fist. We Serbian radicals, taught by the example of Dr Vojislav Seselj, know that truth, justice, freedom and country are the most moral values for which the Serbian radical is born, lives and dies. (A loud applause from the Serbian Radical Party MPs. )
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30552	To the People's Messenger, Dragan Colic, I give a second warning. Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? He doesn't want to. ) On Article 21 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament of the People, Gordana Komic. The draft act adopted the amendment, as an amendment following the previously accepted amendment. Member of the 22nd amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30553	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I have suggested that article 22 be deleted. Article 22 provides that the larger commissions and commissions in dealing with individual legal matters apply the rules of the Code of Criminal Procedure. The Code of Criminal Procedure knows who is authorized to apply. I think it's a little crazy, that it's illegal and it's against all legal norms to do so by a commission and to serve as evidence the information provided by the BIA, or by the former State Security Service. This information has been obtained in an unconstitutional and illegal manner. The fact that something has been obtained in an unconstitutional and illegal way, and whose credibility we need to suspect, should serve a commission, which in some procedure will lustrate a person. As for the honesty of the legislator, we can see what it is and what it is by the very act of proposing members of the commission. Following the proposal, the commission members should also be two members of the Constitutional Court. We've seen our Constitutional Court make decisions. This means that he has lost his judicial independence, that he has no goal of preserving the Constitution as it is, but is only being internalised for political purposes, and for which evidence is now these mandates. Furthermore, there are two members of the committee of "the prominent legal experts". Of this "legal experts", which today there are prominent ones in Serbia, they will not accept. Some anonymouss can accept that. Then there are two members of the commission, MPs who, according to the bill, should also be graduated lawyers. Probably the legislator meant it to be, for example, colleague Bojan Pajtic, whom, as I see it now, this debate does not interest at all. I don't think he's qualified at all, even though he's the master of law, to do this kind of work. Mr Pajtic, since he is the president of the DOS parliamentary group and the chairman of the Legislative Committee, has been in violation of the Constitution all along. I find it a little strange that a Master of Law, as he presents himself, says that the Constitution can be changed by the decision of this assembly, by the decision of the absolute majority. The constitution provides for a two-thirds majority to change the Constitution. Then, Mr Pajtic comes out and, as if it were not enough, says that in a referendum for the change in the Constitution, it is necessary to vote only one half of the total number of voters, although the constitution clearly states that the constitution can be changed in a referendum if 50% plus one voter of the total number of voters is to be changed. Now convince me that this gentleman has anything to do with justice. From all of this, it can be concluded that one such legal proposal, with a commission to decide, was created for one single reason, which is that political scenes eliminate opponents to a small party who cannot transfer a single percent in the elections. I am surprised that certain political parties, such as the Democratic Party, which are quite involved in the period from 1991 to 1998, allow them to be blackmailed by such a small and politically insignificant party.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30554	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, deputy president of the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30555	The question is whether this is an administrative procedure, whether it's a misdemeanor or whether this could be a criminal procedure. The administrative procedure certainly is not - the rules of the General Administrative Procedure Act are not applied. It's not a crime either, because there's a law on violations. It can't be a criminal case either, because it doesn't have all the elements of a criminal case, and it's clear exactly what the criminal proceedings are being conducted for. If we are talking about criminal proceedings, we should be clear that this is one of the crimes, and it is not qualified here, nor is there a sanction that is clearly defined here, except that it does not allow participation in the political life of certain persons that this commission would eventually declare as persons who have violated the constitutional rights of citizens. Therefore, it is completely incorrectly found, it is unacceptable to apply the Code of Criminal Procedure to such a substance that has a lustration for its object. We have a commission that makes a decision. In the meantime, we don't have the possibility that a man is looking for some evidence, that he's proposing some witnesses, that in an adequate way he can defend himself, he can't suspend everything that's in his personal file, a security-informative agency put on his soul. There is only the free assurance of the members of the commission, who are party officials, to decide what it is that is at the request of whoever has delegated or elected these members of the commission. To the truth, I doubt, even if today this law is passed in the National Assembly, there will be a consensus in the majority of this National Assembly, above all I mean the ruling majority, in the election of members of this committee. You've seen what the discussion was and when we've chosen the members of the Radio-Delefusing Council, who've been chosen according to the same principles: they're proposed by two, so whoever gets more votes, that's why it's all turned out to be all sorts of things. Imagine when we propose here, i.e. when V.D. The president of the state will propose these members, how much bile discussions will cause, not only representatives of the opposition, but above all representatives of the ruling majority. I'm responsible for saying you'll never vote this committee. This law will never apply. At a certain political point, you probably need this law for something. Whether further blackmail, further threats, whether it's a signal to opposition parties - come on, calm down, shut up, see what we've prepared for you, you won't be able to get out of the next election. Remember how all this happened in Republika Srpska, remember the civilian administrator who removed SRS and SDS MPs from the list. They were the ones who determined who could be on the list, who couldn't. They had their reasons. These reasons are no different from these reasons that the motioner serves us today with the proposal of this law. It's not going to get us anywhere. I guarantee you won't find even among these Constitutional Court judges who will agree to do this. I doubt that you will be among the Supreme Court judges, whose function is very important and important. However, they are professionals, regardless of names and last names, who will not allow themselves to work under a law that they themselves are aware of in advance that it is against and that they will eventually be declared as such.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30556	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 23 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Blazic. The word has a folk MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30557	I'd like to warn you of a violation of Article 81. I'm also obliged to read it. So I'm gonna take some time. "Employments of the National Assembly, which are being held on draft laws, including the Rules of Procedure, Declarations, Resolutions by the National Assembly, in general and in particular, are being held on Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday between 10.00 and 16.00 hours, with an hour's interruption." On a proposal from the deputy head of the DOS-Reform Serbian parliamentary group, we extended the work to 20.00 hours and so we worked on Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday. At the end of the working day, the president of the Assembly decided, using the powers and rights set out in Article 81. The Rules of Procedure, and extremely scheduled a session for today, for Friday, which is a rough day. For this day, no one has suggested an extension of the working day to 20.00 hours. I think it's 6:00 a.m. when we need to stop working. Once I hear the explanation of the chairmanship of the Assembly, I will ask, I say immediately, a statement of the Administrative Committee on this matter, but I ask you to read Article 81 well and to see that we are not obliged to do up to 20.00 hours today, or that we should re-enact ourselves if you believe that today's session should be extended.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30558	There's no breach of the Rules of Procedure. I'm referring you to a stenogram. When making a decision on the extension of work, and you will consult a stenogram, we voted on an extension of working hours to 20.00 hours, until the end of the eighth session of the regular session. It is a decision that the Assembly has made positively. Language formulation is important. With my apologies for not having an exact quote, but consult a stenogram, there is no violation of this provision. That's exactly why it's being conceived so we can successfully complete the work of the eighth session of our regular session. The word is made by the MP Branislav Blazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30559	Ladies and gentlemen, we've reached a chapter on commissions or, in fact, authorities to question liability for human rights violations. Let's see what the organs are. It turns out it's not the organs, but it's one body, a commission, which is an independent and independent body. The organ is part of something. Therefore, the commission as such cannot be either independent or independent. The civil union is part of the DOS, and it could be said, it is the DOS organ, a small organ, but which is obviously quite influential in this Serbia. Who will write and who will draw up lists of people the commission will analyse, assess and judge whether or not they have violated human rights? Those lists have already been made. These are lists published yesterday in America, these are lists to go to Montgomery to pick up, and they're actually lists that aren't made here, but somewhere out of this country. Obviously, this government has two morals. One morale that preaches and does not stick to him and the other morals he holds, but does not preach it. The Commission will work as some of the committees that DOS has formed independently, and should also blame judges who have tried by law to blame people who have dealt with business by law and to judge and condemn people only because it was at will or not at the will of this authority. We had the opportunity to hear Mr. Batic say, "Let there be justice and let the world go to waste." It's an old philosophical saying he often quotes. That is what he says, and then he withdraws his mandates from many MPs and introduces them into a party assembly that did not even participate in the elections. The position (3) says -- the commission's headquarters is in Belgrade. In Belgrade, it is no longer a political influence. This fourth, that may be the most important -- the resources for the commission's work are provided from the Republic's budget. It will be the only sure thing in this law. Despite all the poverty and misery in which the country is located, funds will still be allocated to some commissions, in addition to NGOs, various other commissions, and this will be paid by people living in this country increasingly difficult and more difficult. Of course, every authority brings the laws it's capable of. Every government deals with the problems it's capable of. This government is obviously unable to address the problems of poverty, economics, progress and the development of this country. The mental set of this government is that it deals only with such and similar things: persecution, persecution, exorcision of a past, some of them only known justice.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30560	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30561	The fourth chapter of this law concerns the authority responsible for human rights violations, in particular the commission, the composition and the way in which the commission is elected, the internal organisation and all matters concerned by the commission, the time it is elected, so as to stop their mandate and the disturbances that would affect the ability of a member of the commission, as well as the resolution. These are very important questions. As a continuation of what I have said in support of the amendment to Article 17, the Commission for the Study of Liability for Human Rights Violation is set up by this law. It is reportedly independent and independent, works as an independent body that conducts a lustration procedure against those persons set out in Article 11 of this law. It determines whether there is a violation of human rights, in the way we've already seen it done, in a completely inadequate way, completely contrary to the Law on Criminal Procedure, or a misdemeanour procedure or the Law on General Administrative Procedure. This is some kind of special procedure, a mutation of all these procedures, which leads us to the conclusion that it's really over the court. The commission's headquarters will be in Belgrade, as far as we can see there will be only two commissions, two councils that will have to do the whole job. If that commission is formed, I am in advance of all that they will have to do and day-to-night work I don't think they will be enough to finish the work that those who choose to vote for one of these laws will require. However, the position (4) of this member speaks of funds for the Commission's work, which must be provided in the budget, will probably be another reason, in addition to those two agenda points we had at this session, which also require new budget funding, another budget rebalance this year. And you all know very well what state the budget is in, that the government's register is empty, that you couldn't even charge your expenses for coming to the session today; and that these, which you've been calling for since 17.00 hours, we urge them to come to the quorum at the time of the vote, said they won't be able to charge their arrival, I doubt that anyone would come, because the salaries of the MPs are small, the funds don't have a normal life, let alone come here and the Assembly doesn't make up for what they spent coming to the session. So, we don't have to have money for salaries in health care, not in education, not in state administration, not in Parliament's work, we can, of course, retroactively pay some payoffs to some MPs, and even if we retroactively establish a permanent working relationship for them, because there was that in this assembly, but I'm not going to tell you who it is now, although a lady from a small political party within the DOS said, there's going to be time to talk about it too, and there's no money in the budget for much more important things. There's this school reform coming up, we see that we're going to have it on the agenda next week, and it's asking for money, we just don't know where we're going to spend it, so let's form another commission and a number of people who have to work for that commission. You know, and the Constitutional Court has nine members, but there are a number of employees who have to serve it and prepare decisions, arguments and everything else. Imagine for the work of these two commissions, which will surely have a lot of work to do, will be a large number of people who will be subject to possible lustration, as many as we will hire. This is in order to reach that figure that Minister Milovanovic made that this year we will employ 600,000 people, and it may be gypsies, a man may keep his promise, but it will still cost a lot.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30562	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of Parliament Zoran Krasic and Golub Rajic submitted to the 24th amendment in the same text. Do the applicants want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30563	The Serbian Radical Party has tabled an amendment to this member that regulates the composition of this legally impossible commission, which is practically set up by this bill if the proposal is adopted by some means. At first, it must be said that this is an impossible composition, because it is causing confusion between the representatives of the legislative and judicial authorities, and the choice of the commission is being made by a National Assembly which does not have constitutional authority to do such a thing. Not only is it not authorized by the provisions of the Constitution, but it does not draw the powers of the Constitution so that it can by special law authorise such a job. Taking into account this intervention that the promoter has accepted one amendment, this lack he had just talked about has not been removed, it has only been confirmed. It has been confirmed that there will be one commission, and it will be the staff committee of a part of the DOS to fulfil the mission of human cleansing for the whole DOS, as apparently the entire DOS should grow into the Socialist Union of the working people of Serbia-Montenegro, this is the ideological matrix to be followed. Obviously, someone said that within the DOS should be both the future government and the future opposition, only so can this space be controlled, because the same boss will control both the government and the opposition, so from time to time it will be the one who guarantees a little more obedience; as the DSS at the previous agenda did, it would give criticism, and they would more quickly and efficiently meet all OSCE requirements regarding the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. What does that mean? This means that pre-election theft is being prepared, because this way will practically make it impossible for this commission to be a candidate, but it is not a problem for this man to disable, the problem is that it also makes it impossible for citizens to choose their representatives freely. What is this authority and what is this brilliant mind that is authorized to judge who can be a candidate? This authority in some ways, and only in respect of compliance with the rules of procedure, has the RIK, but the right to be a candidate is a human right guaranteed by the Constitution and it also prohibits anyone from violating that right of citizens. What will be the measure of this commission? If a man doesn't give up his candidacy, he'll let the public know. That's the measure you're already applying, regardless of whether anyone has any intention of being a candidate or not, for two or three months you're plowing a man, slandering him, and after a turkey dot, nothing applies. Even so, you yourself, that's the way it is, because we heard the other day that the government found out there was no crime. This, of course, is not the first time that this kind of human policy is happening, because it was during Tito, during JUL, but only in an attempt, then we saved Serbia's political scene and freedom of political life in Serbia, we may have made a mistake, and we are confident that we have made no mistake, because without political freedom there is neither open nor normal society. Political differences are normal, there should be and there should be only one Supreme Judge, that is one who wonders every fourth year who he is going to lustrate for a moment, but to lustrate him from power, not from the right to political life. That is why it is necessary for you to take this bill, withdraw, and make sure that everyone forgets that he was ever in congregation procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30564	Anybody else answer for a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30565	Ladies and gentlemen, it is quite clear to me that everyone here wants to beat everyone, the government wants to hold and defeat the opposition in future elections, and the opposition wants to bring down power and win the next election. That's absolutely clear. Since 2001, we have started fighting the opposition in a very backward and non-democratic way, a business way of punishing, limiting, evicting, harassing, even hurting. Remember we were telling you at the time, so line us all up here against the wall, shoot us and finish the job with us. You weren't brave enough to carry out that shooting, but then, as the last thing you could do, you invented this lustration law. They say the lists, the ones that need to be lustrated, exist. Obviously, the election is close, and you can see it and feel it somehow in the air. You've all already gone to these promotional campaigns and you've got your slogans. The law itself says it will begin to apply within 60 days. So it's possible that by September we have elections, and over the summer we need to use this period to clean up the political scene from the opposition. We don't think that's good. I'm saying, here's the political law, we're trying to convince you and politically that you're not doing it. You can take us for a moment and luxuriate us. If we convince the people to vote for the SRS, they will vote for the SRS, whether Gordana Pop-Lazic is there or not, was Vojislav Seselj here or in The Hague, it doesn't matter. They know what the SRS is. It's a party that has a political program, has its own structure, has people who know what they want, people who love their country, their people, who are willing to sacrifice themselves, as here today I sacrifice myself all day here by convincing you of something that I don't suppose I can convince you, but maybe someday you'll tell me, so she really made the most of the effort, maybe we should have had more political hearing, maybe we've made a mistake; maybe you should give up yourself, even if this law is passed, than this crazy thing called lustration. I'm afraid even if you're lustrating us this way, the people will lute you or chandelier you in a much worse way. You know what you did on October 5th. I wouldn't really want it to happen again and if you felt it, don't worry, it's done, we all know what happened. It's not good what happened, we've condemned what happened, we've given you a chance, we've disbanded parliament, so to go to an extraordinary parliamentary election, you've won, you've entered parliament with 176 MPs, you still hold that majority. Hold it as long as you can, it's your right, as long as you can, let the roots go, the power is yours as long as you have 126 MPs in Parliament. It's nothing controversial. We are, of course, trying to convince the entire public and to force all the institutions that should be called upon to find out that you do not have such support here and that you no longer have support in the people and that we need to check that support. That's why it's better than all of what you're doing, better for you, better for us, the healthier the climate will be in the future parliament and in the country itself, if we go to the elections. Let us get less than we have now. That's not at all controversial. Let you get twice as much, if possible, not so much, but let each and every one of you measure your strength, that is our basic political right, because we give citizens that opportunity that they may, as Mr Krasic said, castrate us from power for a moment.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30566	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. ) The same Article of the 24th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Petar Petrovic, Milos Lukic and Adam Urosevic. Amendment applicants don't want a word. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The same Article of the 24th Amendment was submitted by Parliament of the People, Gordana Komic. The proposer's representative also accepted this amendment. I also find that the motion for an act accepts this amendment. Member of the 25th amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. Here you go. The issue was addressed because amendments were accepted, by logic, a replacement supreme for constitutional ones, but here also changes the President of the Republic with the National Assembly as part of the second amendment, as a committee member.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30567	Have you heard, Mr. Andric, do you understand? That's it. Always give them a short lecture, education, you, Mrs. Komic, and how you have predisposition, but he cannot learn. Let's help him with something, hear it's stuck around the university, so let's push it a little bit, so it doesn't be in the history of Serbian parliamentarianism tomorrow, the law suggests what's stuck, three exams hard and two easy. Three exams are hard and two easy. First of all, Mr. Andric, a little bit of elementary mathematics if you had learned, you would see that the composition of this commission, which numbers nine members, would be deployed by larger commissions. Since there are nine members in total, you said that this commission has three bigger ones. In those three larger ones you were counting on every larger three, so three times three nine. I don't know what it's like now, ever since the DOS came in, after October 5th, but it was nine. Maybe you'll bring in something else. So the president of the commission has to be a member of the council, in order to be three, three, three, so three plus three plus three. Let's explain it a little bit, to make it clearer, here's your educational explanation, you know... (Employer Andric, from the place: You don't have to. )......................................................................................................... I have to, because I have some other obligation than the one that's professional, and that's that I've finished a college that's nine semesters, there's six maths, and I'm training you the same way I train a daughter who goes to first grade. Now let's put that aside. Look, how can this commission be objective? If the President of the Commission is a member of a council, let's say bigger for political responsibility, since you haven't listed which ones are bigger. There's bigger political responsibility, there's bigger moral responsibility, and I'm guessing this third bigger one, that should, I suggest, be for an internal and external enemy, to be a brotherhood, we'll still have unity, and there's luck. That's three bigger ones. How can they be more objective? How can this committee be objective? At the same time, if you're going on this schedule, he's a member of the council and president of the commission. You will most likely take some people neutrally, you say, partyly undetermined. Look, in the appeal process when someone complains about the council's decision, they complain to the commission. These people who are bigger, so the same personal composition is a commission. Let's also rule out that and say, well, these are extremely objective people, these are judges of the Supreme Court, the Constitutional Court, experts or one deputy public prosecutor and experts from the legal area of parliament that we are going to propose and find among our colleagues. Let's see what their objectivity is when we appeal to the Supreme Court. Those two judges who are members of this committee are sitting in the Supreme Court. When we appeal to the Constitutional Court, these two members are members of the Constitutional Court, and they are even the presidents of these councils. That's what the cadiya's suing you, the cadiya's judging you. What is most tragic is that in this way you ruled out the possibility of appeal to a federal body called the federal court of Serbia-Montenegro. In the Charter, you saw this, and the Charter finely states that any rights at stake may be appealed to the court of Serbia-Montenegro, unless otherwise regulated by some act at the level of the federal unit. You're the one who's regulated it now. There's no appeal further for the damaged. How come it never occurred to you to put so many mentioned and so many praises on the Council of Europe? What have you forgotten the favor the Council of Europe has done you? In a state of emergency, we have received the Council of Europe. Why didn't you at least leave the possibility here, next to such an extremely objective commission? Mr. Andric, if you put another one, that would be nine plus one, how much, come on, that's nine plus one. That one to be the president of the commission, and these nine to schedule as planned, three plus three plus three. But when you do it yourself, everything that's three or three is so gross, you're so disgusted by that Trinity that I understand... (President: five minutes. )......................................................................................................... You must understand, Mr. Andric, yet the roots are yours in this nation. Don't think like some people think, when it comes to change, we'll disappear, our sponsors, they'll welcome us and we'll have asylum. You won't, Mr. Andric. You know why? Not because there's going to be rematchism, but because you're so paranoid that people are collecting numbers and running after money, not after you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30568	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 25 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament of the People, Gordana Komic. The motion for an act was accepted by the amendment, by erasing the word "Constitutional Court". The 26th amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30569	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the Serbian Radical Party, I have suggested that Article 26 be deleted, because I consider this norm absolutely unnecessary. Members of the Serbian Radical Party have repeatedly pointed to the illogical nature of this law and its conflict with the Constitution and other international legal acts in terms of protection of freedom and human rights. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Mircic said here that complaints in this procedure will be resolved by the same commission. What's going on here? You see, what is the right of the person to be questioned, or to check the lustration procedure for human rights violations? The rights of this man and citizen are absolutely reduced to a minimum. That man has no solution to initiate the procedure. There is no solution from the first moment to be delivered to him on the initiation of the procedure, and since the provisions of the Criminal Procedure Code apply, this is a clean criminal procedure. If that were true, you can see from what the Proposer involves a public prosecutor, i.e. State's Attorney under the Code of Criminal Procedure. Secondly, it includes judges of the Constitutional Court and Supreme Court judges, and these people need to participate in a second-degree procedure, to settle by appeal. What is highly unacceptable, which will be quickly seen by the legal public, one to whom a solution and a first-degree decision cannot carry out certain duties, in his appeal he cannot state anything other than what he later learned and discovered and could not know of certain facts. Why not give that man the right to state and challenge the claims made by the first-degree body. Why is it not allowed to say that the first-degree commission and the first-degree body have wrongly and incompletely established a factual state, if such a decision is to be made to prohibit it from working for five years. He doesn't have the right to appeal. He does not have the right to state in a complaint that a significant breach of the provisions of the procedure has been committed. Why is it taken away from him, when the Constitution prescribes him, when he is prescribed by the Code of Criminal Procedure, which has elaborated the matter of defense, because here is the institute of defense. So the defender from the first moment must be involved, that is, a lawyer. He needs to be served with all the paperwork. Secondly, you will see that it will be in practice that, as a new complaint, it will be heard at the public hearing by the head of a particular service, public or state security, because this right gives this law, that it has the right to propose witnesses and new evidence. If that's the case, we'll have in practice that the body elders and service managers who just ran that file will be proposed, and in that file, I'm telling you and you certainly don't know it, and if all MPs knew about their file, for those who were open, you know how to access this law -- with a big reserve, and you'd never vote for it. The quality of this data is such that it cannot be a decision based on someone's information that occurred at the bar, if someone contacted someone. Therefore, I don't think this law will be able to contribute anything new to anyone, nor will this Serbia benefit from that. In practice, no one will be able to apply it.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30570	The word has a folk letter from Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30571	What Mr. Jojic was telling you about these secret files believe that he spoke to you as a professional and take it seriously. Article 26, which speaks of the time on which the members of the commission are elected, which is the time of six years and may be re-elected, and a member of the committee from the Members of Parliament is elected at the time until the end of his term of office, has, of course, a direct link with Article 27, which speaks of the early termination of the term of office, and I will use the opportunity to explain one and the other amendments, so that I do not go out twice for a pay phone. The question of how much this commission will be chosen, whether at four or six years or two years, it's a proposal, if it should exist at all, but there's something in this Article 27 that's the opposite of the Constitution. For example, the property of a member of the commission ends before the time he was elected, so at point 2, we have -- the termination of the properties on which the member is chosen on the day of termination of the properties. In the position (2), the property of a member of the commission shall not cease to be eligible for retirement. What if one of these judges retired, this doesn't stop him from being a member, but he doesn't have the property on the basis of which he was elected. So the opposite point (2) of view (1) of point 2, so it's simply not sustainable. In addition, there are additional obligations for the President of the Assembly being made here, and I see the amendment for the President of the Republic, which is required by this law, you oblige it to propose new candidates within 15 days of the end of the capacity of a member of the Commission. Now it's probably not the President of the Republic anymore, but it's been corrected by the amendment, the President of the Assembly. Does the President of the Assembly have to do something like that by the Constitution and what if he doesn't? If there was a President of the Republic, and now I'm talking about it without knowing about the adoption of that amendment in this part of the Constitution, he can absolutely do it, he can't do it, no one can force him to do it. There's only the recall institute. He's known to call off, and this is no reason to call off. Therefore, from a member to a member, as the debate takes place in the details of this law does not go into the intention of the Lustration Proposer, which we have discussed in principle and, of course, that we have dealt with and discussed in particular, you see for yourself that there are so many provisions in almost every member that are contrary to the existing Constitution, and that we are not talking about the Constitutional Charter, as well as that the lustration itself is a violation of one constitutional right of the paved Constitutional Charter, not one but more constitutional rights.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30572	Is anyone else answering for word? No, I don't. ) On Article 27 of the amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Rade. The word has a folk emissary of the Faith of the Rade.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30573	We from the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group have been trying to let you know all day long, to convince you that this bill that you have given us for consideration and that you are likely to adopt is truly anti-constitutional, catastrophic and most sincerely recommend that you do not adopt it. Since the whole law is unconstitutional, then it's normal for Article 27 to be unconstitutional, and that's why I suggested that this member be deleted. Since there's a possibility that you're still going to adopt this law, then even as you've conjecture Article 27, it couldn't possibly stand. My basic question with this member is whether you are also predicting in the commission Mr Vučetic, who, since the President of the Constitutional Court, has received 18 initiatives from the Serbian Radical Party for the assessment of the constitutionality and legality of certain acts and until today has not appeared once. Point 3 speaks when the early term ends for members of the commission; you say - by resolving the decision-making day of the National Assembly. I guess it should stand: What's the solution? Is it because of the violation of the law, is it because of the violation of any other law, is it because this law violates human rights? Or, Article (2): "The property of a member of a commission does not cease to be eligible for retirement." What kind of experts are going to do this job so they can do it after retirement or you already know that there will be so few people who will accept this job that you won't be able to replace them even when it's time to retire. I wonder what will be the basis of this commission's work. Will the basis for this commission's work or for lustration be the files made by Jovica Stanisic and Radomir Markovic, and you, while you were banging in the pots while you were protesting, while playing in the whistles, were the basic stories of Jovica Stanisic and later Radomir Markovic illegally listening to the citizens, following the citizens, collecting data by the system of advertisements, and on that basis making the files? I don't see how suddenly these files are credible. I only have logical two explanations. I think that's exactly why he proposed this law is the Civil Union of Serbia. One logical explanation is that you received from Goran Svilanovic, who once worked for Homeland Security, so of course, as your president, you trust him, and then you automatically believe in the contents of these disks. Another logical explanation is that the Civilian Union wants to free Goran Svilanovic, for reasons known to them, and then they came up with this law to have the basis to lustrate him because he used to work for Homeland Security. Of course, I am not interested in Goran Svilanovic, he is the problem of the Civil League and all 18 members of the party. I want to tell you something else. To avoid confusion, if you do not misread our discussions today, no one in the Serbian Radical Party is afraid of political persecution. We're used to it. Since the establishment of the Serbian Radical Party, every time we were strong in the people, we have been targeted by the government. This hack of yours against us tells us that you dare not call the elections precisely because of results won by the Serbian Radical Party. We, gentlemen, weren't even afraid of Milosevic's tapes. We've proven to you that we're not afraid of The Hague either. We weren't afraid of your "Sabre" either, we're not afraid to open the file, please, open it. We are not afraid of lustration, believe it is impossible to lustrate 350,000 honorable and honest patriots from members of the Serbian Radical Party.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30574	Do any of the other authorized participants want to take a word for it? No, I don't. ) We move on to Article 27, the second amendment submitted by Parliament of the People, Gordana Comic. The draft act, as a consequence, accepts this amendment. Moving to Article 28. National MP Milovan Radovanovic submitted to the 28th amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want to take his word? The word is made by Parliamentarian Milovan Radovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30575	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is another amendment to the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group in an attempt to convince you that the law you have proposed to the National Assembly is contrary to the Constitution, as well as the Charter of Human and Minority Rights and Civil Liberties, as well as the International Pact on Civil and Political Freedoms. Of course, we know there's not much we can do to make you change your mind, eventually withdraw the law from the procedure, let alone vote against its adoption. But we want to tell you how undemocratic this bill of yours is, as it is not in accordance with the existing legal order and how much you're actually going to get around it. When it comes to this member of the bill, you say that a member of the commission cannot be elected a member of the political organisation or political party. In this regard, you probably have in mind that he cannot be a member of the highest authorities, the main committees, the executive boards, but not all the authorities in the party hierarchy; and probably in yours, which are in power, there are also the lowest authorities of the parties - the local committees, and thus you prevent those people, who have no major political influence, from being members of this committee. Next, you say, for crimes and other criminal acts that have been sentenced to six months, etc. He can't be a member of this committee of yours, which we've told you more than once about this pay phone that he's nothing but a polythyroid at the time of the Central Committee. Is that a felony and a traffic violation? Yesterday, I thought I'd also mention the case of Dragan Veselinov, from that famous case of a traffic violation, since he resigned, then it's unwise to mention him at all. Do you think you can carry out your idea that a member of the commission can't be the one who's unworthy of public trust? If that trust is to be assessed by the public, how can you verify that? How can you conclude that someone is unworthy of public trust? Public trust is won only in the election. Or two or three commission members should be your legal experts. By what criteria? Who will determine that someone is a prominent legal expert? It's more and more like those court friends in The Hague. So these prominent legal experts, who, along with you, will appoint your mentors from abroad, those who represent, in fact, the interests of abroad - Americans. Furthermore, I was just asked by someone from the SRS parliamentary group whether it could be a member of the commission who took part in the landing during the celebration of the birthday of Joseph Broz Tito on May 25th and could he be a member of the commission who wore the staff? They explained it to me, but I don't know who they were referring to in the DOS parliamentary group, that the person is female, but I don't know who he is. There are few MPs in the DOS who are politically aware, because they are blinded by power, that they are thinking towards possible regret and the need to really pass this law, and therefore a small number of MPs will be frustrated about it. But there are a large number of MPs in DOS who will be lustrated, because that's exactly what you're working on. One of the MPs of the Serbian Radical Party here mentioned those famous envelopes. Nikita Khrushchev left two envelopes for his successor and told him that when he had a hard time doing power, he opened one envelope, then another envelope.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30576	We've heard that story before.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30577	However, I should repeat that story to you to remember it. When he opened the first envelope, it said it was the previous government's fault. When he opened the second envelope, it said that he wrote two envelopes. You're in the process now.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30578	Does anyone else sign up for a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30579	Given who may be a member of this committee, and above all I think of the judges of the Constitutional Court, the Supreme Court and the Attorney General, in a situation where we have three branches of power, the judiciary should be completely depolitized. However, we are all aware that this is not so, especially not so in the Constitutional Court where we have a judge of the Constitutional Court who was a member of the Management Board of G-17+, Vučetic, and now we need to talk about him as a man outside the political parties. So G-17+ is a political party, but that fact itself suggests that in the Constitutional Court we have people who are members of individual political parties. There's that in the first court, too. I wouldn't even talk about public prosecutors right now. It's also a hard-to-check fact, unless a political party whose member of the judge provided that information to the commission himself, which would be credible evidence. Just membership doesn't mean that someone didn't join or stop being a member of a political party in the meantime. I don't know on the basis of which fact, other than the doubt that would remain, on the basis of how someone performs in public, as Slobodan Vučetic always performs as a politician, we would determine whether he is a member of a political party or not. There is no need for a procedure to examine the disturbances that were subsequently learned, and another one of the obstacles, in addition to being a member of the political party, is that he is sentenced to an unconditional prison sentence of at least six months, which is supported by a judicial solution that is credible evidence. I don't see why this commission would later, within 30 days of the day of knowledge of the disturbance, report whether or not the interference exists. They're completely visible, and there's a primary court ruling. Someone's either convicted of a crime or not. Whether or not he is a member of the political party convinces me even more that this will be a party court, it is only a matter of political settlement who will be members of the commission. Whoever's stronger, so far there's been such a rule, will have a greater impact. But what is the situation, usually small political parties condition larger political parties because of the necessary support in parliament. Perhaps this will be another reason to count a hundred thousand euros to support a proposal that is here, by the president of the National Assembly of Serbia, given when these members of the commission are elected. We have also come to the composition of the commission and to a disturbance for the property of a member of the commission. But the biggest obstacle to being a member of this commission is that this law is unconstitutional and that it must have some moral standards, and if it has a minimum morale within it, it should not accept to be a member of such a single court, which will solve people's fates and place them on a pillar of shame, mark, lustrate from the possibility of participating in political life and find themselves in certain functions, either state, at any level of government, or at the functions of directors of public enterprises, broadcasting companies, that is where I mean public information, where the state is in majority capital. Therefore, what you have written is insufficient to determine what is all the interference with the property of a member of the commission. I repeat, once again, because of those who would possibly be candidates for a member of this committee, they must think first and foremost about themselves and their morals when they accept these functions.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30580	Does anyone else sign up for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 29 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zlatan Jovanovic. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30581	Mrs. Micic, first of all, I suggest you cancel this internal transfer to the Assembly building, so that officials, employees here, do not look at this disgrace from the Serbian assembly. It's a shame too, and it's probably our place to discuss any bill in front of 50 people. Ladies and gentlemen, I must apologize at the beginning of my discussion. Today, in the afternoon work of the Assembly, I mentioned Nebojsa Čović and 10 million dinars, which, through "Lola" from Železnik, transferred to my basketball club "The Railway". I said that he would come under the influence of this law, that because of these things, he would be caught by lustration in some future period. I apologize to him, but so do you. Nebojsa Covic, but also a good part of the government's members, will not come under the influence of this law, some other regulations will hang them. They have already, for good, discovered the door, as one predecessor to Mrs. Micic, the Central Prison and other prisons in Serbia said.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30582	Please return to the topic. Article 29 refers to the resolution of members of the commission, and you have been talking for two minutes off topic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30583	This bill mentions much of the International Pact on Civil and Political Rights. I suggest that this pact be declared the constitution of the Republic of Serbia, so that this commission, which you have chosen here, is out of work and no longer obliged to work on it. As regards Article 29, it shall belong to the chapter relating to the bodies implementing the lustration procedure, i.e. the commission to carry out the procedure. Previous speakers, MPs of the Serbian Radical Party, spoke about the problems and shortcomings of these proposals, the composition of the commission, the way members of the commission were elected. I would like to repeat that it is inconceivable, that it is incomprehensible to pass a law by which a certain commission is elected by the President of the Republic of Serbia. I remind you that we do not currently have a president of the Republic of Serbia. In Serbia, Mrs Micic performs the post unconstitutionally. Therefore, in order for this law to be implemented, in order for the commission to be chosen, elections must first be made for the President of the Republic to be held in order for it to be possible, under this law, if the law is adopted, to propose members of this commission. It is also incomprehensible that the judges of the Constitutional and Supreme Court of Serbia are members of this commission, and that the person who is in the process before this commission has the right to appeal to the Constitutional or Supreme Court, as you have changed that by amendment. So it's incomprehensible that the same organ is both first-degree and second-degree. I think there's a lack of basic legal logic, as far as I'm concerned. Article 29 discusses the resolution of the members of the Commission and provides the reasons for the resolution. It mainly calls for other legal acts, laws relating to the resolution of judges of the Supreme Court, i.e. the Constitutional Court, the resolution of the President of those courts, etc. What is illogical here is the views (5) and (6) of this proposal. The position (5) states: "The discharge procedure is carried out by the Commission", which means, as it is said in the second sentence, that the commission decides on the resolution of one of its members. (President: 5 minutes. ) First, it is impossible for the commission to launch the initiative. The Commission is a collective. The initiative could be launched by someone from the commission, a member of the commission. Secondly, if the commission makes a decision, then it is not a logical position (6), where it says, "The National Assembly decides on the motion for resolution". The National Assembly cannot decide on the proposal, when it is not a proposal, it is the commission's decision. So, the commission has already decided, and then the National Assembly can no longer decide on the decision. It's completely illogical and incomprehensible.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30584	Does anyone else sign up for this amendment? Here you are, MP Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30585	In view of the interference for the property of a member of the commission, which is that a member of a committee is a member of a political party or is sentenced to unconditional imprisonment for a criminal offence where the sentence of a prison lasts for at least 6 months, the resolution of the performance as provided for in Article 29. He says, "The reasons for the resolution of the members of the Commission are the same as the reasons for the judge's resolution." All the other views of this member point to the reasons for the judge's resolution, the president of the court, which leads to the conclusion that this is a parajudicate body, as we have called it, saying in a principle debate on these commissions that will be formed according to the situation of recent courts. The resolution procedure should be initiated by the President of the Commission, the Commission; it is one with the other contradictory - the chairman of the commission or members of the commission, so it may stand; further, the President of the Republic; I assume now that some amendment that has been adopted is deleted and that the President of the National Assembly is the one that will initiate the procedure for resolution. If we have a long-term situation that in one person and president of the National Assembly and President of the Republic, this amendment that has been adopted is completely painless, does not change the essential thing, because one cannot sit on two chairs and defend the interests of both the parliament and the functions of the President of the Republic. That's not even how the Constitution imagines it, because it's not compatible with each other, at least not in the long run. The discharge procedure would be carried out by a committee setting out a reasoned proposal, and the decision-making process would not be taken by that member to be resolved and, of course, the National Assembly which has also elected them should make a decision on the resolution. I am still convinced that if the National Assembly, if it engages in this adventure to pass such a law and stamp itself for all time, I mean the congregation majority who is willing to support this proposal, will have great trouble with the staff issues for the appointment of people in this commission and, of course, huge problems with resolution, because also how those who once agree to be on this commission will be kidnapped for staying in it, because after that they will be able to retire only. I don't believe that anywhere more will be able to work and appear in front of the public, marked as those who have made decisions as a mistrial in violation of the fundamental human rights of those who were subject to lustration.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30586	Is there anyone else reporting for this amendment? There's no sign-ins. ) On Article 29 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament of the People, Gordana Komic. The applicant's representative accepted this amendment. Is anyone applying for this amendment? There's no sign-ins. ) On Article 30 of the amendment was submitted by MP Stevan Kesejić. Do you want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30587	Article 30, which I submitted an amendment to in front of the SRS, refers to the authorities of legal medicines. This Article 30 is closely bound and can serve as an explanation, which is why I propose to the National Assembly that this member be deleted, as well as all the proposed members and law in general. It can be seen from the conflict of Articles 12 and 24. Therefore, Article 30 states that "against the Commission's decision to state an objection to the Commission, and against the Commission's decision on the objection, an appeal can be made to the Constitutional Court". To see how many illogical things there are here. What the People's Messenger Milorad Mircic said - the incense sues you, the cadiya judges you - the most obvious example of this is this member. It is said in Article 17 that a person whose responsibility for human rights violations is being questioned before the Commission for the examination of responsibilities for human rights violations may be subject to the same commission, i.e. the same commission must object. Furthermore, Article 24 discusses the composition and way of selecting the commission and the council, and Article 30 says that in the first-degree procedure, the Commission may be more complaining about the decision, which has also conducted proceedings against a person who is potentially responsible for human rights violations. So the same council has the same members, therefore, of the second-degree body that can be complained about, possibly, the person who is claimed to be responsible for human rights violations. In the end, you who are impatient, this certainly is nothing new to you, because everything you've brought, you've brought to such a senseless and precisely the most rigid way you've ever applied to every law. But don't take up much of my time, because I don't have time to deal with you, you're dealing with yourself, that would be far better, because you don't want to hear the truth. One more thing that is very important here is that Article 12 is that it is possible for a people's lawyer to participate in the procedure, while in Article 30, when it is very important to apply a medicine to a person who is possibly responsible for human rights violations, there is no human lawyer here, and that is one big failure. I think it would be logical and that there is a people's lawyer in the legal remedy in a person who is in a certain way wrong or who has been found to suspect that he has committed a violation of human rights. Therefore, I believe that this Article 30 is absolutely pointless, as is all previous, which really resembles that parliamentary group that is proposing; therefore, such seriousness as this bill is serious.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30588	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ) On Article 30 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament of the People, Gordana Komic. The applicant's representative accepted this amendment. Is anyone applying for this amendment? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ) The MPs Dragan Ljubojevic and Sreten Mitrovica submitted to the 31st amendment in the same text. The word is made by MP Draga Ljubojevic, who submits the amendment to Article 31. Proposal for a law on liability for human rights violations.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30589	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the 31st People's Parliament have been regulated by the authority when it is necessary to determine the responsibilities of those persons who are being determined whether they have violated human rights, so it is precise what the larger commissions will do in the process and what the commission will do. What I would like to look back on, and what is significant when we talk about the jurisdiction of these authorities, is, first of all, when it comes to the Commission, point 3 that it decides on complaints against the decision of a larger commission, without holding an oral debate or on the basis of oral debate, in accordance with this law. So, the essence of our amendment is that this member is deleted, given that if we have an insight into the composition of a larger commission and the Commission itself, we are in the position that whoever made a particular decision is a member of a larger commission, because given the composition of the commission, we have the fact that the larger commissions are actually members of the Commission, three larger, each of three members of the Commission, and the commission is composed of nine members. The Commission is tasked with deciding on complaints against the decision of the larger commission, and of the nine members of the commission, three members are members of a particular council. So, if the council has made one decision, it is logical that people who voted higher in favour of the decision and when the objection came they also voted in favour of the decision. If we have nine members of the commission, one major decision has been made, it is necessary to propose from the other six members of the commission, two members, or support the decision of the council, and to make the same, or confirmed decision made by the larger one. So we are coming into a situation practically that out of the six remaining members of the commission, two members are voting for the council's decision, it means 30%, or one third should practically confirm what the larger has already voted. If we bear in mind that it is within the jurisdiction of the Constitutional Court to decide on the solution of the commission, or the decision of the commission, so if we declare the appeal, the person against whom the commission has made a certain decision, we are immediately in the situation that two members of the panel who are members of the Constitutional Court will defend their decision, or participate in the decision by appeal submitted by someone to the Constitutional Court. We have a situation as if, in practice, the municipal court had reached a verdict both at the county level and in the Supreme Court, the same decision-makers in the first-degree, or who decided on the matter of first-degree judgment. Also, what is given in the power of the Council and the Commission, and in view of the severity of the penalties imposed, for the public declaration of penalties imposed, as provided for by some other members of this law, we believe that such bodies should not have the mandate to impose such penalties, that penalties of this weight may be only in the jurisdiction of the judicial authorities. That is why I believe that this member should be deleted, as well as that it should be voted against the whole of this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30590	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? National MP Sreten Mitrovica is not present. No more sign-ins for the word. The 32nd amendment was submitted by MP Ljubomir Kragovic. Do you sign up for a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30591	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in front of the SRS Parliament Club, I have submitted an amendment to Article 32. The bill is deleted. Otherwise, Article 32 deals with the exception of a member of the commission. Furthermore, the rules of the Code on Criminal Procedure apply to the exemption of a member of the Commission, and here is only the excess of this word - a member, because the whole commission should be excluded. If this bill was made in a hurry, I will explain to you through the duties of a commission that has its jurisdiction. Article 15 of this law says that according to the person who is a candidate for the post under Article 11 of this Law, a lustration procedure is being carried out. When elections for the republic and the province's parliament are discussed, we have at least five lists of 250 MPs, meaning 1,250 MPs, and five lists of 120 MPs for the province's parliament, that's 600 MPs. The Commission will have an obligation to do something similar to "Sabbe" about 10,000 candidates for MPs, whether the Republic or the province parliament, electoral or elected functions must be checked. It's a very large number and the commission won't have time or the opportunity to do all that. It remains a second option, which is the selective application of the law, to apply the law from case to case, to which the SRS MPs indicated in this two-day presentation through the defence of the amendments they submitted to the proposal for a law on human rights violations. The Commission also has the obligation to examine the responsibility for human rights violations and the duty to carry out checks on persons under Article 11 of this Law who have violated human rights. It must include all members, all MPs, everything that you have stated in article 11, and you have accepted the amendment to extend that list. So again, another ten thousand Serbian citizens must be the object of lustration. Who of them will be lustrated will depend on the will of this panel that is doing the lustration. This is another example of the inability to implement this law, unless the law is applied selectively, i.e. from person to person, and not as required by the members of the 15th and 16th proposed law on human rights violations. Otherwise, here you are referring to the Code of Criminal Procedure, and the composition of the commission is chosen so that it has a function stronger than the court. The court judges by the Code of Criminal Procedure. It is disputed here, because whoever is at risk and for whom it is determined must prove and appeal to the same commission. Again, I note that you are not only going back 30 years, but you are going back a few hundred years, as was once true in Serbia - the cadiya sues you, the cadiya judges you. The one you're having a hard time dealing with, the moment he won't be able to exercise his rights. You will then, in that case, drastically violate human rights. Just like we have a case... (President: The fifth minute expires. )......................................................................................................... in this House where human rights have been drastically violated, especially by the chairman, who stands behind me and who has once punished me with fines only because of the words - Kosovo and Metohija. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30592	Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate applying for a word? No, I don't. ) The National MP Natasa Jovanovic and Vjerica Radeta and MP Hranislav Peric submitted to the 33rd amendment in the same text. The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30593	Do I have to slap like this, it's familiar to you, because this article 33 refers to something you all know from a series of your golden communist age and there it is said, given the knowledge - the Es jird bekante gegeben. According to this principle, such an introduction as at that time, which the series is talking about, you will announce to article 33 that these are measures for human rights violations, and Article 33 predicts that it is a public statement from the commission. Since you have done everything and thus done what you call lustration, we, the Serbian Radicals, are truly surprised that it is possible that you can only predict two measures for human rights violations, which are according to Article 33 of the public statement of the Commission and the measure of the restrictions on taking up office under Article 34. How is it possible that there are no members of the 35th or that these members are not reformed to the point of firing? If you were already able to deal with the lives of individuals in this way, to threaten every human dignity and right and freedom of every man and citizen to live in your country, to use a huge state apparatus to do all of this, to violate the Constitution, to violate the law, to be preceded by the interior minister, the police generals, the mayor of the police, the chairman of the Serbian Parliament, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, all the other ministers in the government, is simply amazing, gentlemen from the DOS, and that is primarily a question for young Ivan Andric, who is the periance of this new Inquisition, as it is possible that you did not foresee the measure of fire. Given the fact that you missed such a thing, I assume that by the example of The Hague tribunal, Mrs Micic, and you were given such authority, even in an amendment and in another case, first of all as President of the Republic, and at that moment I came out of the hall and I heard that the amendment was adopted and that it was the authority of the President of the Assembly, you could, in the spirit of parliamentary democracy only known to you, in the way that you brought from Užica to Belgrade and into this building, to a parliament that acted in multi-party without you for 12 years, to suggest that these members of the Commission, which you would suggest that such measures be carried out, have black and white toge, or to choose some other color, as in The Hague tribunal, as at the time of the Inquisition, so we will finally be clear. We have, in fact, long ago been clear on the extent to which it is concerned, but perhaps it is not for the citizens of Serbia to whom your Civil League suggests such a thing. I am more convinced that this will not happen, first of all, because of the fact that you need it, and you yourself have brought it here, two months to the implementation of this proposed non-legal project, but indeed a new evil that is being introduced in Serbia. That is what you are telling us, first of all, who have so many times shown by your own personal example how in the worst way possible the rights of people sent by other people and part of their sovereignty are passed on to them in the highest legislative body. Before you say - five minutes ago, I think it's time you realized that the ultimate goal, first of all, is to personally, and that's what you said a few days ago, to return to your native Užice, to commit yourself to some lower or simpler, simpler litigation, and let us from the SRS and the Serbian people lead this country and this nation in the way that it deserves and proper.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30594	Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate coming forward for a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, deputy president, SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30595	The Commission's public statement, as a measure of human rights violations, will look like this: on every television, not only this state that is fully controlled by the government, but also on all others who call themselves independent -- although there are no independents, because everyone is dependent on whoever is funding it; there is no objective journalism in Serbia for two and a half years now, here is a third year, too, there is no investigative journalism; there is only today I have to publish that and that -- on every news, every hour there will be a name, last name, a picture of whoever is designated on this commission as a man who has violated human rights. How and why? The public may never know, but in enough times, his character and his name will be shown and he will enter everyone's ears and have the people brand him in one way and remember him for all time, as the enemy of the people. Whoever breaks the Constitution is the enemy of the people. No other name can be found for such a man. That's how, if you remember, in the first month and a half of the state of emergency, after the news of who was arrested, the arrest warrant was issued, information went as to who was the inspiration of the murder of Prime Minister Djindjic. The name of the leader of the Serbian Radical Party has been named, an alleged indictment has been filed. There are no indictments anywhere in the prosecution, no in court, no one got it, but it was meant for the public to find out and set itself up for someone I don't know what it was and I don't know how it caused those who had access to the media to claim that it was the inspiration of the murder of Vojislav Seselj. If what Vojislav Seselj was saying and what all of us at the myths against the Serbian government were saying was inspiration for those who were taking up arms in order to deal with someone who was at their mercy, then it certainly wasn't our intention. Our nemesis was to create a climate to beat the option that belonged to Zoran Djindjic in the next election. Now we want to beat you at the next election. You're the one who's been layin' on a weapon that's gonna bleed your hands out. I'm convinced if you vote this bill, the public will know exactly the names, we'll take care of who voted for this bill. We'll print it out and stick it to the banners across Serbia, so the public knows who and how he wants to deal with his political opponents. You can't get away from that. We print books, print newspapers, print flyers and find a way to inform the public of Serbia who is sitting in this parliament and how much democracy today is in our country and in this parliament. It's not enough that in the name of your party you have a prefix of democratic, democratic or Democrats, so that means that they really do. You need to justify and prove it by your political actions. You can't prove it this way, and that's why we're warning you to take care of it. Cocktali-no cocktail, that's what follows if you take it easy on this bill. I'm afraid you'll come back as a boomerang. We're not threatening. We will never apply it, and if we are in a position to come to power after you, be sure, that law will disappear. We'll find another way to deal with political opponents.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30596	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 34th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Goran Cvetanović and Hranislav Peric. The word is made by MP Goran Cvetanovic. (Milka Marinkovic: This one screams, I can't listen to him. )
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30597	I'll wait for Mrs. Milk to come out, not to irritate her.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30598	I'm asking whoever's turning on their cell phones to hang up. The inclusion of these apparatus in the National Assembly building is a disrespect of this institution and I ask you to turn off your mobile phones. Here you go, MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30599	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Serbian Radical Party has tabled an amendment to Article 34 where measures are limited to taking office. Article 34 proposed measures to be taken after it was found that human rights violations existed. Since we're already at the end of the debate, we've defined a lot of what can be done under human rights violations and it's just hard to define what would be left without actually breaking human rights. The Commission itself, which should define who violates constitutional and human rights, is the very composition of the commission itself, for several reasons. First of all, it's because it's not defined what a prominent legal expert means. Secondly, it proposes the President of the Republic, and we do not have the President of the Republic. We have an official of the duties of the President of the Republic and the question is to what time period does Natasa Micic thinks he is usurping that duty even when he is thinking of calling elections for the President of the Republic. Finally, Article 28 has even defined that a member of the commission cannot be a member of the political party, except for the MP. The MPs are mostly in the positions of the highest authorities of all parties, so in fact they have not defined anything in this way. Obviously, the commission, which is to be proposed by the acting Serbian president, will be according to DOS standards and will do what they are asked to do. It is defined in Article 34 that within five years of the date of the Commission's public statement on the person, she does not have the right to deal with politics. It has happened several times in our history ten years ago that many who were harassed by the regime after four to five years, when they re-entered the political scene, appeared much stronger and much more persistently and carried out their tasks and goals, than they intended to do before they did. It's probably gonna be a system like that now. Many have tried these days, primarily the MP of Ms. Leila, was kicked out yesterday that the Legislative Committee rejected the amendments of the Serbian Radical Party with an explanation that they were offensive qualifications and it irritated her that it was possible that the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary club had learned all of this in good time and within half an hour changed all the amendments and gave another explanation, which absolutely does not change anything, but simply that it could come to the agenda of the National Assembly. It is also obvious when MPs want to work, unlike DOSs, who are only there when votes are to be voted, and even it irritates them that we have enough energy to study the amendments, the laws and that we really come out with a lot of energy and we express our views on the bill. National MPs who are members of the Serbian Radical Party in the National Assembly are sure there is no constitutional basis for the adoption of this law above all. This is also recognised by lawmakers who are calling for a member of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and the one who is prescribed that the National Assembly adopts laws. Of course, that is not enough, because the constitutional basis would have to be the provisions of the Constitution, which gives rise to the authority to regulate a particular area, i.e. the content and essence of a specific legal relationship. To regulate the area, which the proposings call lustration, not only does there not exist a constitutional basis, but almost all of the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia make it legally impossible to edit the lustration as proposed by the MP group of the Civil Union of Serbia. And since a professor of the university, who is a member of the Civil League of Serbia, the prominent professor Hiber, appeared earlier, I ask him if he has already prepared a textbook for law school students. If he did not, the Serbian Radical Party will conduct a study on this law and will allow him enough material to issue textbooks from which Serbian students would learn, educate, or know better how to behave. Therefore, in the end, the Serbian Radical Party is ordering -- God, save me from your friends, and we will protect ourselves from the enemy.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30600	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? No, I don't. ) The applicant for the amendment is not here. The 34th Amendment was submitted by Parliament member Gordana Comic. The draft act accepts the amendment. The last amendment is to article 35 submitted by MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic. The word is made by MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30601	Yesterday and today, we, the MPs of the Serbian Radical Party, no matter what television transmission is, in the presence of numerous candidates, interior minister, BIA chiefs, agriculture minister and other senior officials, who are already expecting their new jobs tomorrow, in the presence of Mr Sutanovac, who has recognised himself, persistently and patiently trying to force you to withdraw this bill. We have reached Article 35 which speaks of the date on which this law will be applied and the date on which the implementing bodies of this law will have to be formed. This is the last chance for this law to never come into force and this is the last opportunity we offer you and amnesty of your proposal, or of you who have proposed such a law. Of course, Mr. Mitrovic had all day to work, called people, sent cars, tried to bring them, something he managed to bring here. However you vote, you will not scare the MPs and members of the Serbian Radical Party. But there will be something left - this law will remain which will be a disgrace to this congregation. You will certainly not be ashamed, for you have passed worse laws. Keep in mind that after the election some other political forces may come, the Serbian Radical Party will never apply such a law, but there may be other political forces that this law will apply to you. Maybe this is the law by which many of you will go to political retirement.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30602	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed the examination of the Bill's proposal in particular, does the Proposer or the Proposer want the final word? No, I don't. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Since the President of the National Assembly announced that the voting day would be 30 minutes after the debate ended in principle and detail on all points of the eighth session agenda, so as to conclude the debate on all points of the agenda, on the basis of Article 81(3). Rules of Procedure, I hereby appoint today - Friday 30 May, starting at 8:15 p.m., as Voting Day on the agenda points of this session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-30-0.u30603	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, please, to determine the quorum to decide, insert identification cards into your MPs' units. I'm guessing we have a quorum to decide on. We're approaching the vote. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: – I am putting the draft law on the completion of the Law on Parent Books, in principle, to vote. Seven of the 129 MPs present did not vote for 122. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill in principle. I remind you that an integral part of the bill has become amendments to the Government of the Republic of Serbia: Amendment to Article 1; Amendment proposed to add a new Article 1b after Article 1. I'm putting the bill to the vote on the law supplementing the law on parent books, in general. For 134, against two, six out of 142 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has passed most of the votes a bill on parent books, in general. We move to item 2 of the agenda: - I am putting the motion for a law on the law of pawnage on things entered in the register in principle. For 142, against three, they did not vote two out of 147 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill in principle. I remind you that an integral part of the bill's proposal has become amendments submitted by the MPs: Rade Bajić and Bora Stanimirović to the title above Articles 1 and 1; Miomir Ilic and Golub Rajic to Article 15; Nebojsa Jović and Radojko Petrovic to Article 35; Djordje Mamula and Petar Cvetkovic to Articles 36, 40, 48 and 54; Bojan Pajtic to Article 49, to delete and add three new members to both members 68 and Ljubomir Muci and Jovan Todorovic to members 62 and 65. We're moving on to decision-making in detail. I am putting to vote the amendments tabled by MP Milovan Radovanovic as member of the 1st Parliament. Against 119, 30 of the 149 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not adopt this amendment. I am putting the amendments tabled together by the MPs Nebojsa Jovic and Dragan Jovanovic on Article 3. Against 119, it was not 28 out of 147 MPs. The National Assembly did not adopt this amendment. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic. Against 114, they did not vote 34 out of 148 MPs. The National Assembly did not adopt this amendment. I put the amendments tabled by the MPs Gjorge Mamula and Petar Cvetkovic on Article 3. For 23, against 112, three abstentions, 10 did not vote, out of 148 MPs. The National Assembly did not adopt this amendment. I am putting the amendments tabled by MP Goran Cvetanovic to article 4. Against 114, they did not vote 33, out of 147 MPs. The National Assembly did not adopt this amendment. I am putting the amendments tabled together by the MPs Nebojsa Jovic and Jovan Todorovic. Against 112, they did not vote 34 out of 146 MPs. The National Assembly did not adopt this amendment. I would like to vote on the amendments tabled by MP Draga Colic to the title above Articles 5 and 5. Against 111, 35 of the 146 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not adopt this amendment. I would like to put the amendments tabled together by MPs Radojko Petrovic and Zivodarka Dacin on Article 5. Against 109, two abstentions, 34 out of 145 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not adopted this amendment. I would like to put the amendments tabled together by MPs Joca Arsic and Milan Jankovic. Against 112, 34 of the 146 MPs did not vote. I declare that this amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments tabled by MP Dragan Ljubojevic to article 9. Against 113, he did not vote 31, of 144. I declare that this amendment has not been accepted. I am putting on the vote the amendments tabled together by the MPs Gjorge Maula and Petar Cvetkovic. For 21, against 111, it didn't vote 13, out of 145. I declare that this amendment has not been accepted. I am putting to vote the amendments tabled together by MPs Rajko Baralic and others. Against 116, abstention one, no vote 30, of 147. I declare that this amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments tabled by MP Ljubomir Kragovic to article 11. Against 109, no 38 votes, of 147. I declare that this amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments tabled together by MPs Rajko Baralic, Joca Arsic and Dusan Cvetkovic on Article 12. Against 110, with two abstentions, no 34 votes, of 146. I declare that this amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments tabled by MP Petar Jojic to article 12. Against 107, a abstentioned one, did not vote 39, of 147. I declare that this amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments tabled together by MPs Gjorge Mamula and Petar Cvetkovic on Article 12. For 23, against 108, abstention two, did not vote 13, of 146. I declare that this amendment has not been accepted. I am putting on the vote the amendments tabled together by the MPs Gjorge Mamula and Petar Cvetkovic. For 23, against 105, abstention three, did not vote 13, of 144. I declare that this amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments tabled by MP Stevan Kesejic on Article 13. For one, against 115, a abstentioned one, did not vote 29, of 146. I declare that this amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments tabled by MP Slobodan Janjic to article 14. Against 114, it did not vote 32, of 146. I declare that this amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to the title above Articles 15 and 15 in the same text together by MPs Djordje Mamula and Petar Cvetkovic, with the correction of the amendments and MP Branislav Vakic. For 20, against 107, abstention three, did not vote 14, of 144. I declare that this amendment has not been accepted. I am putting to vote the amendments tabled by Parliament MP Milorad Mircic on Article 16. For one, against 112, abstention two, was not voted 29, of 144. I declare that this amendment has not been accepted. I am putting on the vote the amendments tabled together by MPs Gjorge Mamula and Petar Cvetkovic. For 20, v 109, abstention one, did not vote 15, out of 145. I declare that this amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments tabled together by MPs Rajko Baralic, Joca Arsic and Dusan Cvetkovic. Against 111, there was no vote of 36, of 147. I declare that this amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments, which were submitted together by the MPs Radojko Petrovic and Nebojsa Jovic, to the vote on 19th. Against 114, no 33 votes, of 147. I declare that this amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments tabled together by MPs Djura Lazic and Sreten Mitrovica on Article 20. Against 108, with two abstentions, it did not vote 34, of 144. I declare that this amendment has not been accepted. I am putting to vote the amendments submitted by MP Zlatan Jovanovic to article 20. Against 107, it did not vote 37, of 144. I declare that this amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments tabled together by MPs Rajko Baralic, Joca Arsic and Dusan Cvetkovic. Against 109, abstention one, not a vote of 35, of 145. I declare that this amendment has not been accepted. I am putting on the vote for amendments submitted to article 23 by national MP Natasa Jovanovic. For three, against 109, it wasn't 32, of 144. I declare that this amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the 27th vote together by the MPs Gjorge Mamula and Petar Cvetkovic. For 19, against 105, abstention four, did not vote 15, of 143. I declare that this amendment has not been accepted. I am putting on the vote the amendments submitted to Article 28 together by MPs Gjorge Mamula and Petar Cvetkovic. For 21 against 99, two abstentions, he did not vote 21 out of 143 MPs. I declare that this amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title above Article 31 and to Article 31 were submitted by MP Dragan Pavlovic. Against 110, it did not vote 34, out of 144 MPs. I declare that this amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments tabled together by MPs Gjorge Mamula and Petar Cvetkovic on Article 31. For 16, against 111, a abstentioned one, was not voted on by 15, of 143 MPs. I declare that this amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title above article 32 and to the article 32, submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. Against 110, it did not vote 34, out of 144 MPs. I declare that this amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to the title above article 34 and to the article 34, submitted by the People's MP Verica Radet. Against 107, it did not vote 36 out of 143 MPs. I declare that this amendment has not been accepted. I would like to vote on the amendments tabled by MP Lazar Marjanski on Article 37. Against 113, 32 of the 145 MPs did not vote. I declare that this amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendment tabled by MP Zoran Krasic on article 41. Against 114, he did not vote 31, of 145 MPs. I declare that this amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title above Articles 43 and 43 of the Rules of Procedure of the People's Parliament of the People's Republic of Rade. Against 108, it did not vote 37, out of 145 MPs. I declare that this amendment has not been accepted. I am putting on the vote for amendments submitted by MP Dragan Ljubojevic to article 44. For one against 106, there were no 38 votes, of 145 MPs. I declare that this amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to the title above article 46 and to the article 46 by MP Zoran Krasic. Against 108, it did not vote 37, out of 145 MPs. I declare that this amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the 46th vote together by the MPs Gjorge Mamula and Petar Cvetkovic. For 18, against 106, two abstentions, were not voted 18, of 144 MPs. I declare that this amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to the vote, which were submitted jointly by MPs Gjorge Mamula and Petar Cvetkovic to article 47. For two, against 108, a abstentioned one, was not voted 34, out of 145 MPs. I declare that this amendment has not been accepted. I am putting on the vote for amendments submitted by MP Srboljub Zivanovic to article 47. Against 112, he did not vote 31, out of 143 MPs. I declare that this amendment has not been accepted. I am putting to vote the amendments tabled by Parliament MP Milorad Mircic on Article 49. Against 112, 32 of the 144 MPs did not vote. I declare that this amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the 51st Joint Members of the People's Parliament, Golub Rajic and Milomir Ilic, together. Against 110, it did not vote 35 out of 145 MPs. I declare that this amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to the vote, which were brought together by MPs Rajko Baralic, Joca Arsic and Dusan Cvetkovic, on article 52. For one against 106, there were no 38 votes, of 145 MPs. I declare that this amendment has not been accepted. I am putting on the vote for amendments submitted by MP Branislav Blazic to article 55. Against 110, it did not vote 34, out of 144 MPs. I declare that this amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the 55th vote together by MPs Gjorge Mamula and Petar Cvetkovic. I conclude the vote: for 20, against 103, three abstentions, 17 did not vote, of 143 MPs. I declare that this amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the 56th Joint Members of Parliament, George Mamula and Petar Cvetkovic, together. For 15, against 105, with four abstentions, 19 out of 143 MPs did not vote. I declare that this amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendment tabled by MP Veroljub Arsic on Article 57. Against 106, it did not vote 38, of 144 MPs. I declare that this amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the 58th joint vote by MPs Rajko Baralic, Joca Arsic and Dusan Cvetkovic. Against 111, he did not vote 31, out of 142 MPs. I declare that this amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to article 62, which was submitted by MP Milovan Radovanovic. Against 107, it did not vote 37, out of 144 MPs. I declare that this amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the 62nd vote together by MPs Gjorge Mamula and Petar Cvetkovic. For 17, against 108, the three abstentions, did not vote 15, out of 143 MPs. I declare that this amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the 65th vote together by MPs Gjorge Mamula and Petar Cvetkovic. For 18, against 105, abstentions 6, 15 of the 144 MPs did not vote. I declare that this amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the 67th vote together by MPs Dusan Cvetkovic and Radojko Petrovic. Against 116, a abstentioned one, not 27, of 144 MPs. I declare that this amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 68, which was tabled by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. Against 115, 29 of the 144 MPs did not vote. I declare that this amendment has not been accepted. We approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law on the right to move things entered in the register, in general. For 138, against one, there was no vote of five, of 144 MPs. I declare that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by majority, in general. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda: - I am putting to the vote the draft law amending the law on the market of securities and other financial instruments of value and other financial instruments in principle. For 139, five out of 144 MPs did not vote. I declare that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by Parliamentarian Natasa Jovanovic. For two, against 115, 27 of the 144 MPs did not vote. I declare that this amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Dragan Ljubojevic. Against 106, it did not vote 39 out of 145 MPs. I declare that this amendment has not been accepted. We approach the vote on the bill, in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending the Charter Market Act of Values and other financial instruments, in general. Seven out of 144 MPs didn't vote for 137. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by majority. We move to the 4th item of the agenda: - Proposal for a DECISION ON AMENDMENTS AND DEFINITIONS OF THE BUSINESS OF THE PEOPLE'S COMMUNITY OF THE REPUBLIC (vote) As we have conducted a single search on this item of the agenda, we approach the decision in particular. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Veroljub Arsic. Against 115, a abstentioned one, was not voted 29, of 145 MPs. I declare that this amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments tabled together by MPs Joca Arsic and Rade Bajic. Against 108, it did not vote 36 out of 144 MPs. I declare that this amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Dusan Ilic. For 22, against 110, two abstentions, 12 did not vote, of 146 MPs. I declare that this amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Branislav Blazic. Against 114, 32 of the 146 MPs did not vote. I declare that this amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments tabled together by the MPs Djura Lazic and Zivodarka Dacin on Article 2. Against 111, two abstentions, not 32, out of 145 MPs. I declare that this amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Dusan Ilic. For 20, v 109, abstention one, was not voted 14 out of 144 MPs. I declare that this amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments tabled by MPs Joca Arsic and Rajko Baralic, who are proposing that a new member be added after Article 2. Against 112, abstention one, not 32, out of 145 MPs. I declare that this amendment has not been accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, I would like to put the motion for a decision on amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, in general. For 119, a abstentioned one, it did not vote 25 out of 145 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority a proposal for a decision on amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. We move to the 5th item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on Responsibility for Human Rights Infringements (vote) I am putting to the vote a bill on liability for human rights violations, in principle. For 110, against one, abstention one, did not vote 16, a total of 128. I understand that the National Assembly passed the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. I am putting on the vote of the amendment tabled by MPs Zoran Krasic and Parliamentarian Branko Ruzic and Miomir Ilic in the same text. For one against 106, he didn't vote 21, a total of 128. I declare that this amendment has not been accepted. I put to vote amendments submitted by MPs Veroljub Arsic and Hranislav Peric on Article 2 of the same text. Against 104, it wasn't 24, a total of 128. I declare that this amendment has not been accepted. I put to vote amendments submitted by MPs Branislav Blazic and Radojko Petrovic to Article 3 of the same text. For one, against 104, there was no vote of 23, a total of 128. I declare that this amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments tabled by Parliament MP Gordana Komic on Article 3. For 104 against two, it didn't vote 20, a total of 126. I declare that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. I put the amendment tabled by MPs Branislav Vakic and Hranislav Peric on Article 4 of the same text. Against 102, there was no vote of 27, a total of 129. I declare that this amendment has not been accepted. The Committee on Justice and Administration has established that there is a general interest in the feedback of the provision of Article 4. It's a bill of law. In accordance with Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure require the National Assembly to decide in particular whether there is a general interest in return. I would like to put to the vote a proposal that the National Assembly determines that there is an interest in the feedback of the provision of Article 4. It's a bill of law. For 109, it didn't vote 18, a total of 127. I regret that the National Assembly has decided that there is a general interest in the feedback of the provision of Article 4. It's a bill of law. I am putting on the vote of the amendment tabled by Parliamentarians Milorad Mircic and Marko Culibrk on Article 5 of the same text. For two, against 101, it didn't vote 24, a total of 127. I declare that this amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments tabled together by Parliamentarians Petar Petrovic and others on Article 5. For 106, he didn't vote 21, a total of 127. I declare that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. I am putting on the vote for the amendment submitted to article 6 in the same text by the MPs Natasa Jovanovic and Vjerica Radeta and MP Dusan Cvetkovic. Against 106, it didn't vote 22, a total of 128. I declare that this amendment has not been accepted. I am putting on the vote of the amendment tabled by the MPs of the People's Republic of Rade and Miomir Ilic on Article 7 of the same text. Against 102, there was no vote of 26, a total of 128. I declare that this amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments tabled together by Parliamentarians Petar Petrovic and others. Against 97, he didn't vote 31, a total of 128. I declare that this amendment has not been accepted. I am putting on the vote of the amendment tabled by MPs Srboljub Zivanovic and Joca Arsic on Article 8 of the same text. Against 99, not 29, a total of 128. I declare that this amendment has not been accepted. I put to the vote amendments submitted by Members of the People's Parliament Slobodan Janjic, joint MPs Joca Arsic and Rajko Baralic and MP Gordana Komic. For 99, against two, abstentions three, did not vote 24, a total of 128. I declare that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. I put to vote amendments submitted by MPs Zlatan Jovanovic and Zivodarka Dacin on article 10th in the same text. For two, against 98, abstentions two, no vote is 26, a total of 128. I declare that this amendment has not been accepted. I am putting on the vote of amendments submitted to article 11 in the same text by MPs Petar Jojic and together Toma Busetic, Joca Arsic and Bora Stanimirovic. Against 97, with two abstentions, did not vote 28, a total of 127. I declare that this amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments tabled together by MPs Petar Petrovic, Milos Lukic and Adam Urosevic. For 100, against one, there was no vote of 26, of 127 MPs. I declare that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. I put the amendments tabled together by the MPs Aleksandar Radosavljevic and Anita Beretic on Article 11. For 101, against one, a abstentioned one, did not vote 25, of 128 MPs. I declare that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. I am putting on the vote of the amendment on Article 12 in the same text, together with the MPs Nebojsa Jovic, Joca Arsic and Stevan Kesejic. Against 102, 24 of the 126 MPs did not vote. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I would like to put the amendments tabled by MPs Dragan Ljubojevic and Rajko Baralic on Article 13 of the same text. Against 99, it wasn't 28 out of 127 MPs. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to article 14 tabled by the MPs Ljubomir Kragovic and Dusan Cvetkovic. Against 100, not 27 votes, out of 127 MPs. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendment tabled by MPs Lazar Marjanski and Hranislav Peric on Article 15. Against 96, it did not vote 32 out of 128 MPs. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting on the vote of the amendment tabled by the MPs Milovan Radovanovic and Hranislav Peric on Article 16. Against 101, it did not vote 25 out of 126 MPs. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I would like to put the amendments tabled by Parliament MP Leila Ruzdic-Trifunovic on Article 16. For 97, against one, with three abstentions, did not vote 26 out of 127 MPs. I declare that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. I put the amendments tabled by MPs Vitomir Plužarević and Golub Rajic on Article 17. Against 102, 25 of the 127 MPs did not vote. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I would like to put the amendments tabled by Parliament MP Gordana Komic on Article 17. There were no 24 votes for 103, out of 127 MPs. I declare that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. I put the amendment tabled by MPs Dragan Pavlovic and Jovan Todorovic on Article 18 in the same text. For one against 99, 27 of the 127 MPs did not vote. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting on the vote for amendments submitted by MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic to article 19. Against 99, 29 of the 128 MPs did not vote. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting the amendments tabled by MP Goran Cvetanovic to article 20. Against 98, it did not vote 29 out of 127 MPs. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put on the vote by the amendment, which, in the same text, submitted to Members of the 21st People's Parliament Dragan Colic and Joca Arsic against 102, did not vote 25, out of 127 MPs. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I would like to put the amendments tabled by Parliament MP Gordana Komic on 21st. For 102, against one, with two abstentions, did not vote 23, out of 128 MPs. I declare that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. I am putting on the vote by the amendments tabled by MP Veroljub Arsic against 100, not 28 out of 128 MPs. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendment tabled by MP Branislav Blazic on 23rd. Against 101, it did not vote 25 out of 126 MPs. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments tabled by MPs Zoran Krasic and Golub Rajic on Article 24. Against 97, it did not vote 30 out of 127 MPs. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I would like to vote on the amendments tabled by the Parliament of the People's Parliament of Gordana Chomi on Article 24. For 103, 25 of the 128 MPs did not vote. I declare that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. I put the amendments submitted to Article 24 by MPs Petar Petrovic, Milos Lukic and Adam Urosevic. For one against 99, 27 of the 127 MPs did not vote. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting to vote the amendments tabled by MP Milorad Mircic for one, against 99, did not vote 27 out of 127 MPs. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to the vote, which was submitted by MP Gordana Komic on 25th. For 103, against one, they did not vote 24, a total of 128 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted this amendment. I put the amendments tabled by MP Petar Jojic to article 26. For one against 100, 27 of the 28 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not adopted this amendment. I would like to vote on the amendments tabled by the People's MP, Ms. Reddeth, on Article 27. For one, against 98, 29 of the 128 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not adopted this amendment. I am putting on the vote for amendments tabled by Parliament MP Gordana Komic on 27. For 101, there were no 27 votes, a total of 128 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted this amendment. I am putting to vote the amendments submitted by MP Milovan Radovanovic to article 28. Against 101, it did not vote 26 out of 127 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not adopted this amendment. I am putting to vote the amendments submitted by MP Zlatan Jovanovic to article 29. For one against 101, it was not 25 out of 127 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not adopted this amendment. I would like to put the amendments tabled by Parliament member Gordana Comic on 29th. For 103, 25 of the 128 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has adopted this amendment. I am putting the amendments tabled by MP Stevan Kesejic on Article 30. Against 98, it did not vote 30 out of 128 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not adopted this amendment. I would like to put the amendment tabled by Parliament MP Gordana Komic on 30th. For 99, against one, a abstentioned one, did not vote 27, of 128 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted this amendment. I put the amendment to the vote in the same text submitted by MPs Dragan Ljubojevic and Sreten Mitrovica to article 31. Against 100, not 28 out of 128 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not adopted this amendment. I am putting on the vote for amendments submitted by MP Ljubomir Kragovic to article 32. Against 96, it did not vote 32 out of 128 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not adopted this amendment. I am putting the amendment to the 33rd vote in the same text submitted by Natasa Jovanovic and Vjerica Radeta and Hranislav Peric. For three, against 95, 29 of the 127 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not adopted this amendment. I am putting on the vote of the amendment submitted by MPs Goran Cvetanovic and Hranislav Peric in the same text as members of the 34th. Against 102, 26 of the 128 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not adopted this amendment. I am putting on the vote for amendments submitted to article 34 by Parliamentarian Gordana Comic. For 104, it did not vote 24 out of 128 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted this amendment. I am putting on the vote for amendments submitted by MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic to article 35. Against 102, 26 of the 128 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not adopted this amendment. We approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote a bill on liability for human rights violations, in general. For 111 against one, the abstentions were not voted by 15, out of 127 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed by majority vote a bill of responsibility for human rights violations. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I hereby conclude the eighth session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly. The next session is on June 5th 2003, Wednesday: Proposal for a Law on the Fundamentals of Education and Education. The deadline for submitting amendments to this bill is Saturday - midnight. Thank you for your work.
