ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-26-0.u26582	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening a session of the 7th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2003. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, today's session is attended by 150 MPs. Please, to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, insert your identification cards into your MPs. I find that using the electronic system has established that we have a quorum to work with. I would like to inform you that they are prevented from attending the following MPs: Radmilo Misovic, Zaharija Trnavčević, Velimir Simonović, Zoran Angelkovic, Slobodan Pavlovic, Zivanko Radovanchev, Juhas Atila and Petar Misic. Predrag Stojanovic announced a delay. I would like to inform the National Assembly that they have been invited to attend the sittings of the President, Vice-Presidents, Ministers and Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the Secretary of the Republic of the Legislative Secretariat. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with a call from the 7th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly in 2003, which was convened at the request of a group of 102 MPs, pursuant to Article 79(3). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 162. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia have been sent to you for the holding of the Seventh Extraordinary Session, with the agenda set out in that request. In accordance with Article 80(2), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby inform you that I have convened this session within a period of seven days because of the need for the National Assembly, respecting the obligation set out in Article 8. Constitutional Charters of the National Community of Serbia-Montenegro and Article 4. The law implementing it adopted the text of the Charter of Human and Minority Rights and Civil Liberties before the constitution of the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly. Also, Article 6(2). The law provides for the first session of the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly to be held within five days of the election day, which means no later than Monday, 3 March 2003 and Article 4. The law that the Charter of Human and Minority Rights is brought to the constitution of the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly means in an existing meeting of the Federal Assembly. As you could see, for the 7th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2003, the following Dane v e r e : 1. The text of the Charter of Human and Minority Rights and Civil Liberties, which was submitted by the Commission for drawing up the text of the Constitutional Charter of the National Community of Serbia-Montenegro. We move on to the 1st point of the agenda: – TEXT OF THE PUBLICATION OF LJUDIAN AND MANJINS Rights AND CIVIL FREES According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Tomislav Nikolic, president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-26-0.u26583	Mrs Micic, yesterday I warned you that the MP Dr Vojislav Seselj resigned as a member of the People's Parliament and that you should enable us, as well as his wish, that the SRS parliamentary group numbered 23 MPs, since this class is 22. As the situation in Serbia rapidly develops, we will need every vote to bring down the government of Zoran Djindjic. And one vote can judge. Yesterday, two votes ruled on one of your laws. I warn you that you are in violation of the Law on the Selection of Members of the People, Article 88, which says that the MP's term of office ends on the day of his resignation and that the Assembly is obliged to suspend his mandate at the first next session, following the receipt of the notice. You keep that decision so we don't fill out the SRS parliamentary group, you say to some kind of administrative committee, which, in this case, has nothing to do. You have the resignation of a MP, you have in the House enough MPs to hold a session where it's only being determined. After that, we will need the Administrative Board to determine whether our proposed candidate meets the requirements of the law; you know what it is: that he was proposed by an authorised person, that he accepts the candidacy, that the Republic Election Commission says we belong to a mandate, etc. I ask you to stop playing this game and that the National Assembly determines the end of the mandate of MP Dr Vojislav Seselj, since you do not have a foothold in any act to delay that finding. I have a proposition, according to the Rules of Procedure. I would ask that today's break be at 13.00 hours, because at 13,15 Dr. Vojislav Seselj will first appear before The Hague tribunal. The TV's going to broadcast it. We'll watch the video. I don't even invite you to watch the video, you have time to look forward to it, but Serbia is very interested that a great Serb and a great Serbian hero will continue their fight in The Hague. We'll see about that anyway. If that doesn't mean anything to you, it means a lot to us. If you're going to take a break an hour sooner or later, it doesn't mean anything to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-26-0.u26584	People's Messenger, we discussed this yesterday. I told you there was no breach of the Rules of Procedure, because it is necessary for the Administrative Board to determine the termination of the term of office. This shall be in accordance with Article 69. The Rules of Procedure, which says, "The Committee is considering the reasons for the end of the term of office of individual Members of the People's Parliament, and therefore submits a report to the National Assembly with a proposal for the assignment of the mandate to the new MP and in a manner prescribed by law." The only thing I can do is, in accordance with Article 73, call a session of the Administrative Committee and make a report about it, after which I will establish the resignation of MP Dr Vojislav Seselj. (Tomislav Nikolic, from the post: I want the Administrative Committee to declare this injury. ) I ask the Administrative Board to declare whether there is a breach of the Rules of Procedure, which was pointed out by MP Tomislav Nikolic. I would like to vote on Parliamentarian Tomislav Nikolic's proposal to take a break at 13.00 hours. For 59, against 76, the two abstentions, did not vote 44, out of a total of 181 MPs. I find that the National Assembly did not accept the proposal to set a break at 13.00 hours. We're going to work on a set agenda. You have received the text of the Charter of Human and Minority Rights and Civil Liberties, with a correction, which was submitted by the Commission for drawing up the text of the Constitutional Charter of the National Community of Serbia-Montenegro. Also, you received, for the purpose of meeting, and the conclusion of the draft Commission on the Constitutional Charter of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, from a session held on 24 February 2003. Before the search opens, I remind you that, in accordance with Article 90. The Rules of Procedure, the total time for debate, is five hours and is allocated to a relative number of MPs, who have parliamentary groups. I would like representatives of the parliamentary groups to submit a list of registered speakers. I'm opening a search. Does the proposing representative, MP Dragan Jocic, co-chairing the draft Commission of the Constitutional Charter of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-26-0.u26585	Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, the draft Charter of Human and Minority Rights, which is before you, has been drawn up by the Constitutional Commission with the help of a special committee composed of experts, and based on one text that existed earlier as a proposal and which has actually been drawn up in some basic version of the Centre for Human Rights. The work on drawing up this constitutional act marked a completely different atmosphere, much more constructive, full of tolerance towards different political understandings and with incomparably more consent to opinions, than was the case in the almost seven-month work of the Constitutional Commission which was working and this first text. The reasons for a different atmosphere are likely to be in the minds of all its members on the importance of this issue and in general on the importance of human freedoms and rights, and within that specific minority rights, on the importance of full integration in Europe, and, most importantly, to achieve one of the fundamental objectives of the state community, which must be realised in it. Given the current state of the state and state community that we have made, we have made sure that the fundamental human rights guaranteed at the level of the common state must be consolidated both in the Charter and thus made visible, regardless of what the constitution of the Member States holds such standards. This Charter includes resources stemming from international law, which protect human and minority rights, which are the European Convention on Human Rights, certain international conventions made up of the Council of Europe, the Framework Convention of the Council of Europe on National Minorities, and, in any case, there is an incorporated and federal Law on Human and Minority Rights. What will remain as unscheduled in any case, and it had to remain so, since the state community is one community that has a limited or conditional deadline, these are some issues that could not be defined, and this small constitutional charter, or the Charter of Human and Minority Rights, was related to the basic solutions. Let me just point out that it's in article 7. The constitutional charter of a certain institute of citizenship which is quite rigid. Under this Article, citizens of Member States shall have equal rights and obligations both in one and the other country, except for the electoral right. We tried to solve this in this charter by Article 43. One of the basic and first laws that should be passed by this assembly is also a certain law on citizenship. We now have two laws, one Law on the Citizenship of the Socialist Republic of Serbia and one Federal. According to this solution, which could not go beyond what this constitutional charter has expanded, we can come to a situation where a number of our citizens who have citizenship here, where citizens of the second or third generation, have citizenship, for example, of one of Montenegro's Member States, are at one point completely unprotected and lost their electoral right. Therefore, once we adopt this document, I hope it will appear from the competent resolution ministry the first draft law on citizenship. What we did in this charter, and we tried to correct the first one, it's a domain called the protection of human rights. According to the Charter of Citizens, citizens enjoy rights and protect themselves where they are citizens. This means that, except in a number of cases, almost all rights and all legal protection are exhausted in a Member State. This would lead to one absurdity, if they remain such a solution without doing so, so that certain citizens may be violated rights in a Member State, e.g. in Montenegro, that he cannot find protection at the level of the state community and that, once we enter the Council of Europe, he goes directly to the human rights court in Strasbourg. Then the state community, neither guilty nor debtor, would find itself as a defendant, and if he received a dispute in Strasbourg, the damage would be paid by the state community. In Article 9(3), we corrected this anomaly of the Constitutional Charter and, at this point, the regressive right or payment of damage to the Member States that violated that right. What was done to protect all those who do not have citizenship is in Article 35; we introduced in fact that a child born on the territory of Serbia-Montenegro has the right to citizenship if no other citizenship is available. We have introduced the principle of "jus salt", so anyone who literally sees the sun in the territory of the state community will become its citizen. Section three discusses the rights of members of national minorities; it seems to me that we have the most liberal law or the most liberal Constitutional Charter in Europe. We also guarantee individual and collective rights in areas of culture, education, information, language use. And besides this title and the rights of national minorities, since many are members of national minorities, and especially since in Montenegro they are otherwise called members of national minorities, than this legal international standard, we have introduced that everything they can and what they want to use belongs to national minorities can be used. It simply seems to me that this document is good and that the OSCE has received the highest marks and that, out of this, for God's sake, it cannot theoretically, in terms of both human rights and minority rights. It seems to me that this document -- it can be formally found in certain faults, but not so large -- is one good way to democracy of the future state community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-26-0.u26586	I would like to thank the rapporteur's representative. Before we continue to discuss the text of the Charter of Human and Minority Rights and Civil Liberties, I just want to tell you that, in accordance with Article 81. Rules of Procedure, to set today as a voting day, in order to honour the deadlines arising from the Constitutional Charter and the Law for the conduct of elections, as well as the deadline for the Federal Assembly to be established within five days of the election day of the Federal MPs. So, depending on the length of the debate and the agreement, but in any case today will be the day to vote. I remind you that to adopt this charter requires 126, therefore, a qualified majority. Please take care of it. Do the presidents, or representatives of parliamentary groups, want the word? Yeah. ) The word has been passed by MP Borislav Pelevic, an authorised representative of the SSJ parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-26-0.u26587	Dear citizens of Serbia, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we will discuss the Convention on Human Rights and Freedoms and the Rights of National Minorities. If something is good about adopting the Constitutional Charter, then it is a charter that should regulate and formulate the rights of national minorities and human rights and freedoms. This is what we should welcome and it is one newspaper in our constitutional arrangement; and, in any case, it is a positive regulation. Unfortunately, despite the fact that Mr Jocic said that this charter was adopted with a high degree of consent of members of the Constitutional Commission, I personally believe, as well as the position of the SSJ, that it is not complete and that as such it does not protect the rights of national minorities enough, but neither is the rights of the majority people in Serbia-Montenegro. Unfortunately, it was only late this afternoon that we received a charter on national minorities and human rights. I understand it must have been so, since only the night before last the Constitutional Commission adopted this charter, so-called. A small charter, but I still think it's a little time for MPs to be qualified to discuss it today and to adopt or reject it. In my deep belief, it is incompletely complete, not complete, and as such cannot be sufficient protection of rights and human freedoms, but neither the rights of national minorities, and unfortunately not the rights of the majority in this country. I will try, if you allow, to point out by some members of this charter the shortcomings which, unfortunately, I do not think we can correct today, because it is not the possibility of the amendments being provided, but merely a discussion of this text. For example, as for the 27th member of the religious community, it says that religious communities are equal and separate from the state, and that's quite all right. However, this is not about what religious communities mean. Last year, we had a comment from an MP who said that religious sects are also religious communities. I couldn't agree with that. Here it was necessary to specify and say that this refers to religious communities that are traditional and that are founded by tradition in the area in which we live. So, the Serbian Orthodox Church, the Islamic Religious Community, the Catholic Religious Community, Protestants, the English Church, etc. So, only those that are legally defined and whose existence is traditionally in our space. If the text of the charter remains as it is, then many religious sect supporters will say that the term religious community also refers to religious sects, which is inappropriate and what is harmful in our country, and especially in our youth, because in our humble opinion, the SSJ opinion, religious sects are ballast for this country and should be banned by law. As for the objection of conscience (that is Article 28)It is said that it is not mandatory to serve a military term and that one who does not want to serve a military term can meet the proper civil service in accordance with the law. The question is, can we, on this matter, be asked to serve the military term as an example? The Netherlands, Sweden or some other country, which has not had a war in its territory for many years. Unfortunately, we're in a thorny area. As one great poet and philosopher said - we built a house in the middle of the road, so we disturb each other. In this situation, in this time, when we have riots in southern central Serbia, when we have a situation in Kosovo and Metohija, as we have, I think it is not good to adopt this member of the council. I think it's an obligation to serve a military term of honor, not just the obligation of every young man to fulfill his duty to his country. What happens if all young people decide not to serve a military term out of persuasion, what in that case? So, then we no longer have our army, the Serbia-Montenegro Army, as it is now called. So I think it's too soon to go out in the Charter of Human Rights and Freedoms with this opinion. As for Article 30, which speaks of freedom of the media, it is said that there is no censorship in the state union of Serbia-Montenegro. That's very good, but unfortunately, we are witnessing that it is not respected, that most editors listen to dictatorships that come from above, from the top of the government. We have printed media, similar to an egg. In the past regime, which has been criticised so much, we still had certain daily lists that favored the opposition, such as "Today", "Blic", "The Voice of the Public". We had lists of the policy regime, the Express Policy, the News, the Fight. But today all the daily papers are favored by the ruling DOS, and I guess that's clear to all of us. Therefore, it would be good if this provision of the Charter of Minority Rights and Freedoms and Rights of Citizens were applied, but I am very skeptical there, because I think it has censorship and will be. There is, unfortunately, a little less in Serbia, too, in Montenegro, but there is one in either case in Montenegro. Furthermore, Article 33 writes - the right to free elections; it is a perfectly legitimate, normal right for all citizens who are 18 years old. But here you forgot, gentlemen of the Constitutional Commission, to treat the electoral right of our citizens living abroad, so our diaspora. They also have to have the right to vote and all other rights that citizens living in Serbia have. Let us remember the example of Croatia, remember that HDZ came to power by the votes of their citizens from the diaspora. Why don't we have our Serbian lobby abroad - because we've never paid any attention to our people living abroad. That is why I believe, and it is the position of the Soviet Union that we have to take into account civil rights, which primarily refer to the right to be elected and elected, for our citizens living abroad, so for our diaspora. As for citizenship, it has gone much further here than it stands in the current Constitution of Serbia and the Constitution of Yugoslavia, which was, by yesterday, practically, valid. It says here that a citizen of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro cannot be deprived of citizenship, expelled from the state union, or extradited outside its territory, except in accordance with the international obligations of the state community. What does that mean - international obligations of the state community? The Serbian Constitution says that a Serbian citizen cannot be expelled, deprived of citizenship and extradited. Here it goes further in this regard and writes that every citizen can be extradited, in accordance with international obligations. What international obligations? I hope that Mr. Minister will agree -- that's a very broad term. What does an international obligation mean? We have a law on co-operation with The Hague tribunal, on a federal level. It says that citizens who are accused can be extradited, but only those citizens for whom the indictment was brought until the day the law was passed. For all other charges, there's no obligation to be extradited. This charter allows all citizens of Serbia to be extradited against whom an international indictment has been filed from The Hague tribunal. So this is not good and this is practically an anti-constitutional member, who opposes the Serbian Constitution, where it is clearly said that no citizen can be extradited. The Serbian Constitution does not discuss whether it will be extradited to an international organisation or state. It just says-- it can't be extradited, and it can't be done. So here, however, the Constitutional Commission violated the Constitution of one of the members of the state union, Serbia. The following text speaks of the protection of national minorities, and that's very good. I don't think that's complete and sufficient and that this Constitutional Commission has not protected enough neither the rights of national minorities, but neither the rights of the majority Serb people in Serbia and Montenegro. I'm going to say Article 52, where it's said -- in the middle with a significant minority population; what does it mean -- a significant minority population? Well, I think that this is an insufficiently precise term, although the Framework Convention on the Protection of National Minorities of the Council of Europe speaks of a significant population. However, this should have been expressed on a percentage basis, so to say -- where most, for example, national minorities, in one area, have the right to mark street names, settlements, in their own language. So where are most, and not where it is -- a significant part of the population. It can be widely interpreted, and it can be misused. So, I don't think this is done enough. It is further said -- national minorities have the right to a number of mandates in the assembly of the Member States and the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly. I must remind you that even before you adopted this charter you practically violated this charter, because as far as I know, none of the representatives of the Muslims, that is. The Bosniak from the Serbian Parliament is not represented at all in the Federal Assembly. Then why did you insert this member when you practically... (President: I apologize, MP, are you using for the next 10 minutes?) Yes, thank you, if I may. (President: Please. Thank you. So why have you inserted this member into the text of this small charter, when you automatically violated the basic right of members of the national minorities to be represented in the Federal Assembly of Serbia-Montenegro. There is no Roma, there is no Vlach; it is fine, they are currently not represented in the Assembly, but there may be some modus, even if we break the Constitution, since you often violate it, that their members may be represented in the Federal Assembly. What's the problem here? Here, the problem is that it goes to the orders of national separatists in the Raska region, Sandzak, and in the north of Vojvodina. First of all, I think of Sulejman Ugljanin, who will now have an asset, to wave it in front of his countrymen, saying -- well, they didn't respect us at all, we're not in parliament, and we now have the right to fight with all the means for our national minority rights. So, let's go to Sulja Ugljanin and Mr. Kassi, who in the north of Vojvodina is looking for Hungarian regional self-government. I don't think this is a good solution and that it only encourages those separatists who want to separate part of Serbia from the whole state of Serbia and the state union of Serbia-Montenegro. Why didn't you, say, listen to what CESID said? CESID has suggested, and this is also the position of the Serbian Unity Party, that the parties of national minorities should have a smaller price for entering parliament, that they have a 2% censorship and not 5%, so let's say we have representatives of Roma, Vlah, Hungarians, Bosniaks, which would satisfy the form and would be handled in accordance with the Framework Convention on the Protection of National Minorities. We can't close our eyes in front of this. If we do that, then we'll just go to the separatists of different nationalities who want to separate part of Serbia from the whole. Yeah, I see you're saying I'm absolutely right. I'm right, but in practice, unfortunately, it didn't happen here. We must not close our eyes to the fact that the Framework Convention on the Protection of National Minorities of the Council of Europe in Article 20 and Article 21 protects the rights of the majority people, and it says in Article 20: "Members of the national minorities are required to respect the national constitution and other national legislation", and it further says "members of the national minorities must also respect the rights of others"; in this respect, situations can be mentioned when members of national minorities are in a minority national, but make up a majority within a country. The case is a Bujanovac. We must not close our eyes in front of the fact that Albanian Nationality's committees in Bujanovac, when they pay tribute to a minute of silence to the Serbian police officer, refused to rise. What does that mean? It's something very dangerous. That you have inserted Article 20 into this text. The Convention on the Protection of National Minorities of the Council of Europe, then we would avoid it and then Serbs, as most, would be protected by that member. You have not done so and this constitutional charter, which speaks of the protection of national minorities, only partially protects the rights of national minorities, and does not at all protect the rights of the majority, the rights of the majority people in Serbia, which is a very bad solution that can be broken into our heads. Article 21 of the same Convention on the Protection of National Minorities of the Council of Europe says - nothing under this Framework Convention will be interpreted so that it can mean the right to take action or to act contrary to the basic principles of international law, in particular sovereignty, equality, territorial integrity and political equality of the state. So, in this charter, we did not recognize this charter, and unfortunately, it does not protect enough neither the rights of national minorities nor the rights of the majority Serb people. Because of everything I have said, and it seems to me that I have been using arguments and facts, as well as the Special Convention of the Council of Europe on the Protection of National Minorities, I believe that this Charter, although good as an idea and should be welcomed by the adoption of such a charter, incomplete, incomplete; it must be returned to the Constitutional Commission for Development, to supplement, so that we have one document that will fully protect human rights and freedoms, especially the rights of national minorities and the special rights of the majority Serb people in Serbia-Montenegro. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-26-0.u26588	Are any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, answering for a word? Here's a word from MP Zarko Obradovic, president of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-26-0.u26589	Dear Presidency, fellow MPs, human and minority rights and civil liberties are one for the lives of people a very important area, very attractive and very exposed, especially in the last 15 years, which has shown in these 15 years and their faces and their appearance. There is also the need to say something more about one and the other -- what is it that our country has, what are the international conventions that we have adopted, signed, what is what we have done, and what we have not, or should make certain improvements if, objectively, there is a need. First of all, something about human rights. Since, as the people say, there's been a world and a century, there's been a struggle for human rights. Alone or in the community with others, man constantly struggled to expand that spectrum of rights and, objectively, and succeeded. Not to mention the history of man's struggle to improve and increase the human rights corpus and those documents that have contributed to the adoption of appropriate documents, which serve as a legal framework for any human rights story and civil freedoms after World War II. To remind - after World War II, the General Declaration on Human Rights, the Pact on Political and Civil Rights, the Pact on Economic and Social Rights, as well as a number of other documents that have been established, as is commonly said, a coherent and comprehensive system of human rights protection, regardless of gender, language or religion. That's what the UN Charter says in Section 1 of Article 1. Regional organisations, such as the OSCE, the Council of Europe, the United States and others, also played an objectively significant role in human rights codification. As for the internal legal order, human rights and freedoms are included in the constitutional and legal act to the extent permitted by internal political relations and depending, normally, on the determination of the ruling forces. More recently, the provisions on human rights by ratifying and signing international contracts are included in the internal legal systems of the states. At the beginning of the J.J.I. century, with the change in the relationship of forces in the world, the disappearance of bipolarism, human rights become imperative, the greatest value of so-called. international communities. It is logical that all rights relating to civil rights and freedoms, economic and social rights, as well as other rights related to the environment, development and so on, should be made available to man. Human rights should be available to all people and everyone, logically, should respect them. This should, and not always; human rights have objectively become the subject of political manipulation. The protection of human rights has become an excuse for violating national sovereignty and territorial integrity of states, illegal and illegal interference in the internal relations of states. There have been such phenomena before, and now there are many more. There are many theorists, human rights fighters, humanists around the world, who talk about such abuses of human rights. I will only mention, among other things, Noam Chomsky who says that America was champion after World War II in the abuse of human rights, as he says, of human rights as an unclear and unreal goal imposed on others, and for one very practical purpose - it is the achievement of American strategic interests. There are numerous examples in the world that say that Western countries, led by America, all other countries share in good and bad countries, not by the quality of human rights or democratic relations in the country, but only by whether they serve American strategic interests, importing their products and placing capital. More recently, after the 1990s, Western countries, including logically America as leader, ignore all their internal problems and warn others of violating human rights, the rights of ethnic communities, how they deal with all other things...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-26-0.u26590	People's MP, I ask you to return to the topic, you have a certain text...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-26-0.u26591	You tell me, please, a text that cannot be changed, what is he? He's a cause for the story of human rights and minority rights.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-26-0.u26592	Yeah, that doesn't mean... You can hold a press conference and lecture on human rights at a press conference...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-26-0.u26593	Then let us vote right now and finish the story.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-26-0.u26594	Please return to the agenda theme. I'm telling you not to stick to the subject, it's my discretionary authority.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-26-0.u26595	It's not true that I'm not sticking to the agenda. It's about human rights and civil liberties and minority rights.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-26-0.u26596	You have a certain text and please limit yourself in the debate, you've been talking past the subject for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-26-0.u26597	Please, in order to see what this document contains, we need to know what human rights are; in order to know whether our country respects minority rights, we need to know what are minority rights.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-26-0.u26598	Of course, no one is defending you, you can lecture on human rights, you can hold a press conference, but here you have a concrete act and please discuss it.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-26-0.u26599	I know you're uncomfortable listening, exactly, to a specific act I'm talking about. You can stop me, you can forbid me, but you can't stop me from talking about human rights, civil liberties and minority rights. So, it doesn't matter, we're here today discussing a document that we want to show ourselves and others that we've accepted something called the Corps of Human Rights and Civil Liberties and the Corps of Minority Rights. Let me say certain things about it; normally, I talked about it, depends on who's listening, but I don't want to look back on it. So it's important what it says in the documents, but more importantly, how it applies and how it interprets it. I mention this for one simple reason why our country, Serbia, Yugoslavia, has been subject to international interest for the past ten years, related to human rights, and later to direct abuses, related to a number of articles that have appeared on human rights violations and civil freedoms and violations of minority rights. Is that right? It has been shown over the past 10 years that it has been part of a broader scenario, where NGOs (not all, honor to individual) in defending human rights have been campaigning, defending the rights of members of certain minorities, according to the rule of a certain ethnic community, to prove and demonstrate that human rights violations and minority rights exist in Serbia. This was used later, in 1999, we all remember, as a concrete reason for intervention in the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, with the reason that it wants to prevent humanitarian disaster, that human rights are above state sovereignty and that the international community should apply all the measures to prevent these human rights from being respected and humanitarian disaster. It is known, it is not something you do not know, but it is rarely mentioned that it was only one excuse, that it was not at all accurate data relating to the number of minority members who then left the territory of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and Kosovo and Metohija; it is known that UNHCR itself gave very different data, from several tens of thousands to several hundred thousand; and it was a cause. There's less talk of human rights violations today. Human rights violations are almost unspeakable after October 5th. Is it possible that human rights are not now the subject of our country's interest, or in the area of legislation has made so much progress that it can be said that normal is all right, but in practice it is not. Practice has actually shown that the same norms are interpreted differently. No one mentions the human rights of Serbs, Montenegrins, Roma, who have been expelled from Kosovo and Metohija, who have not been created to return to their homes, who have no objectively or condition that as members of this community, as people who have their guaranteed rights are in a position to return to their hearths. No one mentions numerous other examples of human rights violations or worsening international relations; this is something that is now objectively present and not mentioned. (President: Do you want to use the next 10 minutes?) Please stick to the subject. Yes. The component of this Charter of Human and Civil Rights and Minority Rights is also minority rights. One logical question arises - what is it that our country has not regulated normably, or vice versa - whether it has accepted all international documents relating to the position of minorities and whether it respects them. A colleague before me, and I think the introduction, mentioned some international documents that serve as a standard for regulating minority rights issues. The Framework Convention on the Rights of National Minorities and many other international documents is also mentioned. We must say, because it is consciously forgotten that our country, Serbia, SRJ, has signed all international documents that regulate the position of minorities. So, objectively, our country has accepted standards related to minority policy, but unfortunately, we have one paradoxical situation -- that we're being asked, and that's exactly what those countries didn't do, that we're applying what they're denying. It is less known that the United States, for example, does not recognise national minorities, they only recognise ethnic groups, but only to the extent that it does not question the character of the system or possibly to set up some other rights. France does not recognise minorities, nor does it sign the Framework Convention on the Protection of Minorities. Germany recognises only certain minorities, and only those that are few, so that as little as possible would be a spectrum of rights and obligations. So our country did accept those international standards and apply them. There are many MPs here from the AP Vojvodina's space who can testify whether or not this minority body has been applied in our country. There are a number of data that are very taxing on what has been done over the past decade to improve minority rights. A number of schools, primary, secondary, possibility of studying, opening a university in minority language, publishing activity, right in the field of culture, preserving language, all of this is something that objectively contributes to the protection of minority members. In Kosovo and Metohija, of course, there was, but we had one paradoxical case -- that minority members were extremely selective in using those rights. One logical question arises, what is missing in this Charter, or whether there is something more in this Charter compared to what was earlier, so that the document can be assessed qualitatively. Do minority members in this country have international documents guaranteed rights? They do. Do they use them? Yeah. Are they satisfied? That's already a subjective question. A protocol on the co-operation of nine municipalities per national key was signed in the north of Vojvodina the other day. One logical question arises - what is it that members of the Hungarian national minority do not have as a right or what is it that the citizens of Serbia and others have, and what the Hungarian national minority do not have, that there is a need to improve their position and the right by special protocol? If the basis for the conclusion of the protocol is purely national, then I'm sorry, it's not something that can contribute to the development of this country, improve relations in Vojvodina, let alone something that can benefit the future. I am also saying this in the context of statements that can even be heard from the heads of this government, and even in today's newspaper, the resolution minister says - the Vojvodina State. If Vojvodina is going to be a state, then this protocol objectively is a step towards Serbia's further split and call the states. Nobody talks about abuse of minority rights and nobody mentions the rights of people who don't have the opportunity to return. No one is talking about the rights of Serbs, Gorans, Roma and everything that has happened in the past two years. Why? Because objectively everything wants to be forgotten. There may be other shortcomings that this document contains objectively, but I think the greatest lack of this document is precisely because it does not follow the entire content of the Framework Charter for the Protection of National Minorities, does not contain any provision relating to the obligations of minority members. I'm not saying this by accident. Unfortunately, we have had this bitter experience that minority members have abused minority rights and have treated minority members extremely badly with majority people and the state. The most recent example of such a relationship is members of the Albanian minority community and their behaviour in the 1990s in Serbia and the SRJ, when, by achieving other interests, and now it is seen which -- the creation of an ethnically clean space and an independent state, and probably the creation of a new Albanian state in the Balkans -- are extremely selectively benefiting from what the state has provided them. There was also a possibility, and they used it by hand, to obtain certain documents, to use travel documents or something, but therefore they did not want to meet their obligations to the state, they did not want to serve the military deadline, etc. I mention this for the simple reason that the Framework Convention on the Rights of Minorities contains a passage which my colleague Pelevic reads, which contains a very precise provision that minority members have obligations in addition to rights, and these obligations can be reduced to four: to respect national legislation, the legislation of the state in which they live; to respect the rights of other citizens, and those citizens who are members of the majority, but also other citizens who are members of certain minority communities; to respect the territorial integrity and national sovereignty of the state. I think the biggest negative of this document is that it doesn't contain this definition. Why am I saying this? Unfortunately, in the past two years, we have a lot of examples right in the field of minority policy, which are consciously silent, because, of course, it doesn't want to change a bad picture of the previous years, nor does it want to change anything or say that in the previous period, minority policy was good. I think the Minister of Minority Affairs himself admitted that there have been more incidents in the area of Novi Pazar in the past two years than in 10 years before, which speaks of worse international relations. It's logical to put it in another plan and try to explain some other reasons, but since the man is a minister he can't say, which is true, that we don't have international documents covering it. There are a number of other examples that say that minorities should not abuse minority rights, that they should have all the rights that allow them to preserve minority specificities, but that, above all, minorities are members of this country, that they are citizens of this country and that they should respect these fundamental human rights and freedoms. So when you look at this whole document he is an objectively one list of beautiful desires, a list of rights contained in some international documents. He's objectively something our country has, but here, except for one or two elements, he hasn't radically made any new shift. I even think that in the field of minority question it represents a step back, that it contains a number of weaknesses that cannot be objectively justified. They may try to hide the documents in some future period through various legal acts, but the fact is that the document is not consistent, that it is objectively superficial, that it has not solved all the issues, that it left some questions for later. (President: I warn you of overstepping allowed time. Thank you, I'm done. So today's document on the Assembly's agenda is just one list of good wishes, without objective value, for the simple reason that a huge number of these provisions are already contained in Serbia's documents. There is no SRJ anymore, you have abolished it, but it exists in the documents of the Republic of Serbia, in the international documents we have accepted. This is objectively only one document that should cloud the eyes and serve as one colourful lie, as well as all the other documents adopted within this story of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro and its existence.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-26-0.u26600	National MP Tomislav Nikolic, president of the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group, spoke.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-26-0.u26601	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all, to immediately realize that the National Assembly, as it does to us every time we have a more serious bill in front of us, humiliated us in such a way that almost all of this text was received this morning at the entrance to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. It is an act of discrimination against the Members of the People. So, it's only you who participate in making a charter that you have the right to write it for a year, that the public finds out what you're doing and how your agreements are going, and we who need to decide we'll get the text so we don't get to read it, so when we go out for a pay phone that the president of the National Assembly says right away - don't talk about the subject. Maybe the president of the National Assembly knows this text by heart, so he can talk about the subject, but I'd invite her to speak here for 20 minutes and that you DOS warn her whenever she doesn't talk about the subject, to see how many times she'd be able to stay in the topic. It's possible the president of the National Assembly can do it. (President: How about you get back on the agenda? ) To be clear, this is not a newspaper, this does not go one step further from the existing Constitution and has the fate of amending the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which no one tells us why it is wrong, just told us that it has to change urgently. And so this charter of human and minority rights, as if minority rights weren't human, and we have to change it too, and there's nothing to say about it that's not at the will of the one who's leading the session. Article 4 - the provisions of this Charter cannot be interpreted as implying the right to abolish this Charter of Rights or to restrict them, to a greater extent than those prescribed by the Constitutional Charter or by the Constitution of the Member States. Already in Article 4, you say that the constitution of the Member States will be able to deviate from this charter as much as the constitution will prescribe. The question is, then, why is this charter prescribed, why the suspension of the Member States did not regulate it. Furthermore, in Article 5, you say, guaranteed human and minority rights can be limited under certain conditions, even by a law that has general application, and in Article 57, you say that the rights achieved can no longer be reduced at all. Then what is the right to be reduced to Article 5? Article 6: "According to the official declaration of war or emergency, if the survival of a state community or a Member State is at risk, measures are allowed to derogate from the human and minority rights guaranteed by this Charter and only in the extent to which it is necessary in a given situation." I remind you, four years ago, we had a war on SRJ territory. Which one of you remained calm while you were in opposition, and did not keep warning every day that human and minority rights were being violated, even though the country was in a state of war? Now, when you expect to be in power when a war breaks out, you predict to limit the rights to the extent that you consider necessary, and even in your view of the third, you say: "The decision to deviate from human and minority rights in the event of a declaration of war is made with the consent of the competent authorities of the Member States". Now I ask you what the competent authorities of the Member States are, if it is already concluded that the Serbian Parliament and the Montenegrin Assembly or the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly are unable to meet. You say the decision is made by the Council of Ministers. Now I'm interested in what is the competent authority in the Member State that will give consent to reduce human and minority rights? Articles 7 and 8 could have been the only members of this Constitutional Charter. You untied the story, you write about everything and everything, and in article 7, you say, "The human and minority rights guaranteed by the generalised rules of international law, as well as the international contracts that apply in the state community are guaranteed by this charter and are directly applied." Article 8: "No restrictions on human and minority rights guaranteed by the general rules of international law, international agreements applicable in the public community and in the laws and regulations in force, under the pretext that they are not guaranteed by this Charter or guaranteed in a small volume". What do we need another text for? What, then, is the wording guaranteed by international obligations? For not only did you write that the Republic of Serbia, or the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, does not have its own Charter of Rights, applies the generalised, implements the Framework Convention and all the rules adopted in the international community, and thus the laws can be passed and further discussed. Right to life - Article 11 paragraph 2: "The cloning of human beings is forbidden." Couldn't you have written a nicer sentence? That's what someone will boast in front of the world and say, "We forbid the cloning of human beings." Article 12(2) directly violates the rights of a minority who, unfortunately, exists in the Republic of Serbia. He says, "No one must submit to torture." Where are these very good lawyers, how do they interpret this? So there are no masochists in the Republic of Serbia, because they are subjected to torture. You're not saying no one can subject someone to torture, you're saying no one can subject himself to torture. What if he wants to be tortured, what if he wants to hang himself? This only speaks of the literacy of those who write the laws and the literacy of those who spend days and nights arguing, for God's sake, about it. How come this discrimination in Article 15, that the police can remand a person without counsel for 48 hours without bringing him to court? Well, we in the federal government, the ministers of the SRS, have barely introduced it into the bill. The law was passed in the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, so that no one should be exposed to the police for a minute. It took us a year to break the police's resistance and find out that as soon as a man's in custody, he has the right to an attorney and is immediately brought before a judge, and you are returning the right to the police to hold a man for 48 hours. It's the human right that you're introducing now in the 21st century. Article 16(3) again reduces rights and says, "The law determines cases in which the interest of justice requires the defendant to receive the defendant under official duty, if he is unable to compensate for the services of the defender." So far, there has been no condition for justice, but one who has no material resources to provide himself with a defender would immediately receive a defender under official duty. Now he has to prove that this will provide justice. - Right on legal means. Where you are entitled here to protect yourself from courts outside the country, courts of other states, so-called. International courts? Does a citizen of Serbia or this state community have the right to help him and when the dispute is being conducted abroad, or because of the UN tribunal, are you deliberately throwing it out? You're counting on none of you to be there. You're wrong, except they'll lead you and move you and chop you. (President: Do you want to use the next 10 minutes?) Yes. Article 25: "The right to marriage is guaranteed on the basis of the free consent of future spouses". Where are your sexes here, where are human beings? What if someone wants to marry an animal, so she says "me," and he says "yes," so it's freely expressed the will of future spouses? What if you start marrying members of the same sex and you make a marriage where there can't be children? Is that the introduction to it? Did you ask the citizens of Serbia if they wanted to, did they want to skip centuries of their education, their civilizations and jump into Europe? Where's your drug rights here? It is already guaranteed in half of European countries. I didn't get here this morning, it'd be on every member. Why did you throw out the obligation of information funds financed from public income or from a mandatory subscription to inform citizens in a timely, objectively, impartial manner? That's what that dictatorial constitution had. It may not be respected, but the question of what is written here is what will be respected, but why is it not written? Where is the obligation of the Serbian Broadcasting Institute to objectively, timely inform citizens of Serbia of the events? He abolished the committee, Beba Popovic, the secretariat for information. Freedom of Gathering - you have inserted one part of a sentence that can allow for the ban of gathering, especially of Serbian radicals, because we will continue to disturb you with our public gatherings. We showed you this on Sundays, numbers and masses. He says freedom of assembly can be limited if necessary in order to protect the rights of other persons. We're gathering to bring down the government, and you're going to say you're jeopardizing the government's right to continue to rule. We want to hold a rally against the Prime Minister, and you say you're jeopardizing his right to be Prime Minister. Where's your experience in your gatherings? For months, you've blocked traffic and threatened the rights of others, and has anyone stopped you from doing that? It's not, for God's sake, it's only when you've been throwing cans at cops, and they've shown you they're stronger than you are. For everything else, you went, you blew, you whistled, you banged, and no one stopped you from doing that. You had the support of the SRS; when they launched an attack on the DS premises, we reacted first and said it was not allowed, or on the premises of New Democracy - we reacted and said it was not allowed. It didn't occur to us to participate in the ban on your gathering, especially because you were right. "Organizations whose actions are aimed at violent destruction of the constitutional order, the abolition of guaranteed human rights or the cause of racial, national or religious hatred can be prohibited by a decision of the competent court." Why didn't you write - they can be banned by the court's decision, in accordance with the law. What does that mean? He can meet with a court of law at night and ban some political organization, because that's what you want. Where's the procedure? Where's the procedure? Where's the proof? You have retained article 19 — everyone is innocent until his guilt is proved. In this way, the court's decision prohibits a political party. I guess in accordance with the law and decision of the competent court. Article 35, dangerous member; have you thought about it? How many countries in the world, which have free visa entry regimes, allow a child born in the territory of the state to automatically gain citizenship? We're a state that doesn't have a visa for foreign citizens, has a free regime, doesn't check in what month of pregnancy is a woman arriving at the border. She enters the land, and, God forbid, give birth, and give birth to a healthy child, one, two, three; usually they will be born by three, four. They immediately become citizens without question about the citizenship of their parents. One more thing: if it will also be retroactive, how many Albanians will gain citizenship as soon as this charter comes into force? Who will give them copies of the birth certificate and Serbia to check whether they are credible sources; KFOR, UNMIK, their local self-government authorities, is at the local self-government home office. You will receive 500,000 copies from books born for children or adults who will immediately become citizens of Serbia and citizens of Serbia-Montenegro, and you know that the two citizenships are automatically linked. Or don't you mean Kosovo and Metohija anymore? That explanation owes us a very good proposer. "The citizen can be extradited in accordance with the international obligations of the state community." How are international obligations taken over? At the same time with the rights. What kind of organization are we a member of? You are taking over immediately, and membership, as you were told, 2013, 2014. And how long will they be alive then? We now decide the fates of the people. We completely annul the statehood and sovereignty of Serbia, that is, these quasistates of Serbia-Montenegro, and accept the suppression of everything written and made in the world as a decision against the interests of the Serbian state and of the Serbian people. Don't knock, you know what Belarus is. This is an embarrassing member: "Anyone who is forced to move within the territory of Serbia-Montenegro has the right to effective protection and assistance, in accordance with Serbia-Montenegro's laws and international obligations." Will international obligations force us to treat Serbs who fled from the Serbian province, Republika Srpska and Kosovo and Metohija? Isn't that our obligation to do what we need internationally? Someone else will say -- I cannot provide help, it is not in line with an international commitment accepted by Serbia-Montenegro. This is a declaration of the right to work, and I don't want to talk about it. Article 45(1) and (2) are in collegiate. "Everyone has the right to protection of health," attitude 2 says the right to health care has children, pregnant women and old people. What's the limit? If everyone has the right to protect their health, there are no more restrictions. Everyone, including a pregnant woman, a child, and an old face, and an unemployed, and an employee. What about a grown man who doesn't exercise law on another basis? You're moving your head. I read this in a hurry, but I figured it out. Where did that come from? On some basis, he must have the right to protect his health, if by no means, by the Constitutional Charter. "It will not be considered discrimination," Article 49, paragraph 3, "those regulations, measures and actions aimed at ensuring the rights of members of national minorities, when they are in an unequal position, in order to allow them to enjoy full rights under equal conditions". Please, who's going to take these measures and actions? Local self-government? Organisation of national minorities? State authorities? The international community? The army? Police? The judiciary? Who? Who has legal measures and actions that they claim to be challenged in order to bring national minorities to a level playing field? I don't know how you're going to regulate all this by law, but the right to use your symbols in public places should be made possible by minorities, with the mandatory emphasis of the state's symbols, not like in Bujanovac. Is it the right of Albanians in Bujanovac to highlight Albanian symbols? Yes, but there must be a Serbian flag. If there is no flag of the state, there will be no flag of the national minorities, or I don't understand anything.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-26-0.u26602	21 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-26-0.u26603	I'm done. Unfortunately, I have not been able to ask you how you will provide a number of mandates in the assembly of the Member States and the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly, starting with the principle of direct representation. Well, aren't minority members in all political parties in Serbia? You will not set them apart, so that you may provide them with additional rights; aren't you all proud of the minority members who are members of your political parties? I don't know how you're going to ensure, in Article 55, that you remove the extremely unfavourable conditions of life that are particularly affecting members of a particular national minority in this poor country. I think you'd have to invest all the budgets in that, to get rid of it. And of course, the guarantee of rights acquired, which you are jeopardizing to Article 5. I think it should be removed. We don't have the right to amendments. When the President of the Assembly gets out of the way, we have the right to say something, and when the President of the Assembly is here, we must not even speak. We should've worked more seriously on this, and we're going to vote against this charter proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-26-0.u26604	The word is from MP Dragan Tomic, the MP group of National Socialists.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-26-0.u26605	Dear gentlemen, MPs, I think this text of the Charter of Human and Minority Rights and Civil Liberties could wait and create the Constitution of Serbia, because the existing Constitution of Serbia from Articles 11 to 79 handles this category according to the highest standards, which are in line with the European Union's views and the highest standards of the world's largest states. I think that trying to resolve this issue before, without a solution through the Constitution of the state, will not improve the status of national minorities in Serbia, and it seems to me, will remain a threat to the rights of citizens of the Serbian people in the environments where they are found as minorities, in the territory of Serbia, and where their rights should be sovereign, as well as other citizens living in those territories. But to go in order -- for me, in the international environment, which is now Serbia, there are a number of unresolved issues, border issues; a number of requests within Serbia for former rights. For example, today you have a statement from a government minister claiming that Vojvodina will be a state within the state of Serbia. An emissary from the O.R., he got confused. ) I would not say at all that he was confused, but I think that this bar should resign as Minister of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, because it is obviously a matter of some rights, which I personally think are not threatened; we cannot treat Serbia as a three-part state, but we must treat it as a common state of all citizens of Serbia, and the current Constitution says Serbia is a state of citizens. I think that the Constitution also achieves higher standards, which are necessary for this state community. For example, the American Constitution makes it clear that America is the state of the American people, in France - French, Germany - German. Well, it would be logical for Serbia to be the state of the Serbian people and citizens of Serbia tomorrow, as well as citizens living in the diaspora. That question is very important, and I think we need it in some period that's coming, and we're talking about the times ahead. Political times remain complex before us, when it comes to the integrity and sovereignty of this common state. There are numerous requests on the outside or on the inside, from certain groups that see themselves in different ways; some see in political organisations, others see in NGOs their rights; e.g. have in the category of NGOs more pro-pulsory personalities, more present in the media when commenting on some of these issues that we treat through human rights than the opposition leaders of major political organisations can, or, for example, political leaders of parties in power. When it comes to the objection of conscience, and it concerns the obligation to serve the military deadline, I think it has entered too quickly with this topic into Serbia's premises, because Serbia will probably not be pacified as a state in the longer term, nor will conditions be created to treat a serious commitment in this way, primarily male citizens in Serbia. In the previous period, we had a legal obligation, which has been misused in various ways. This objection of conscience will be treated in another way. Obviously, the poorest layers or familyly raised and conscious or nationally defined people will be obliged to decide whether to send their children into the army or not. In the previous period, during the period of mobilization in 1999, towns around Serbia, for example Bijeljina, Zvornik or other cities in Macedonia, Bulgaria, Romania, Hungary, were full of young people from Serbia who spent days there, fleeing the military service obligation. Why there are double standards, if it is the same obligation, and the right to defend sovereignty and territorial integrity falls within the highest world rights, the right to preserve the state community. Neither Serbia is a rich state nor Serbian citizens are too rich to have mercenaries or other armies; it seems to me to remain the obligation of those who view this territory as their own country or have a sufficiently built patriotic line and the obligation to serve the military term. The question is which way Serbia should go when it comes to the media. Apparently, media freedom is reportedly still under way, but it is definitely evident that the media in Serbia is still not free. It is said - there should be no censorship, and it is evident that it is present in the media in Serbia, or it is an anachronous to the extent that even what is in the media is present - whether it should not be censored at some stage at all, or if someone has a political need for such types of newspapers or media to function or exist. In civilised countries, this is taxed, so when you charge them enough taxes -- that's what a ham says, and that's taxed -- that kind of media can work, if it pays a higher tax rate. Citizenship is the most important issue. I don't think it's treated very well, I think this question could be treated better in this document. It is not defined until the end, and I think the Constitution should define this in a better way, because it is obvious that Serbian citizenship will be able to acquire whoever it wants, which is not exactly the way it is in this time to do so. The question of diaspora is raised. We really need to put the diaspora issue in a more honest way once in front of us. There are always talk of two to four million Serbian citizens living outside the territory of this community who have no right to vote, we are constantly calling on them to bring their money. They're said to have about $60-70 billion abroad, so let's line up these rights: the right to vote, to live with us, to be elected to this parliament and to decide on important state issues when it comes to the interests of all Serbian citizens. It doesn't matter who's gonna be in power when these citizens have that right, but I think only then will they accept this country as their common and parent state, even though they keep coming here, trying to participate in economic life, trying to build and create, but it seems to me that we haven't encountered a single corps of relationships that will bind them together. Of course, they are divided abroad as we are here, according to various political options or structures. But this standard should be the highest and there should be no division. We will discuss everything else later, whether we are for the Kingdom, for the Republic, for the monarchy or for something else, let the citizens of Serbia handle it. But they're both here and there. What is resolved will be the obligation of all - to live in such a common state. The right to shelter for forced displaced persons - I don't think the previous issues have been resolved here. We came from the Charter of the United Nations, so we brought Resolution 1244, but it is obvious that in Article 9, it is most redefined and threatened and when it comes to the interests of citizens of the Serbian people, Roma and others who have escaped from Kosovo's territory. It seems to me that these rights are significantly compromised, and there is no perspective -- that these rights will be resolved, as they are constantly called for by the international community's views. These days, we have even a statement that there will be a re-emergence in the territory of Bujanovac and Medvedje, as well as a request for that part of the territory to be secededed. The right to preserve speciality - since many are called to America, you in America can set a flag... (President: Do you continue after ten minutes have passed? Yes. You can set your flag, but there must be an American flag next to it. You have to have this in France, Germany or any of the countries that are being talked about here, and apparently have the world's highest standards. In various areas of Serbia, you have the abuse of symbols. I don't mind that there are these kinds of symbols that will in a certain way highlight the specificity of a community, whether religious or national, but I definitely don't agree, we as citizens don't agree that it's a fundamental mark or that it's being Scandicated and said it's another state, and that it's most of the announcements that this spring requires secession or association of Kosovo, etc. Please, it's classic terrorism. The whole world is talking about terrorism, and here this terrorism is developing as a right. The state needs to be tighter about it. We don't need this charter to reduce the rights of our own majority people in territories where he's a minority. Citizens of the Serb people in those territories must have the same rights as the citizens who live with me in Machva or in Čačka, Kragujevac. In Bujanovac, they must have the same rights. The state is obliged to provide them with those rights. They can't be lower, they can't be smaller, and from that comes the other part -- what is the right to health care, education like other rights. In my opinion, one of the highest standards, and we are constantly talking about European integration, is the obligation to pay taxes. You know, then there's no character of majority rights, but when taxes aren't paid then a lot of human rights are compromised, starting with labour rights, employment, health care and education. In another so-called Civilised countries are entitled to both obligations and standards, as well as the right to pay taxes. It is an obligation as one of the highest European standards. He's not here. We said we were pursuing the highest standards established in Europe, but when we mention education, I have to say that we have retained liquids from the communist period -- compulsory primary education. It was a standard that applied during another period. If you agree, it remains valid for the future in this new century. Couldn't we have raised this standard to a higher level of obligation, so when we say right to work, then it's an obligation -- secondary education, because from that education it will draw up and the right to education, culture, and above all the right to work. I do not believe that during a period followed by numerous Serbian citizens with primary education they will be able to gain the right to work, but with secondary education, the optimists will say - yes, pessimists will put a question mark. So this was supposed to be built into a higher standard than law. In the end, I think it's too soon with this document in order for the passions in Serbia to calm down. Passions in Serbia can calm down in one simple way -- there must be a will for all of us to live in the common state, to respect the most standards that exist in Europe, and thus to create our own standards in this country. If we do not come from the basic standards that have been established, although there are groups here that say - we are for Euro-Atlantic integration, while others say - we are for Europe, we should be for the integration of citizens of Serbia living in the common state and reach a consensus on the standards we will no longer discuss here, from the lowest to the highest. We need to discuss those other issues that concern better life in different environments. But without the right to endanger anyone's rights or to regard them as lower rights than the rights of citizens of other national minorities. You cannot treat the right of the Serb people as a lower right to live together in the area of Bujanovac, Presevo or any other area. This must be the most right and must be protected by the government of the Republic of Serbia and the highest state bodies. Well, then it's said-- we'll have the right to object. How can we defend the right in this period if a condition is created to treat someone who does not want to serve the army, a military deadline. With this complaint of conscience, we are jeopardizing other rights and these are not the standards of Europe. These are standards of NGOs, some peace-loving associations and organisations or overrich states that can have mercenaries' armies. Serbia can't do that, nor should it provide at this stage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-26-0.u26606	First, a notice -- called the 33rd session of the Finance Committee, to be held today at 1400 hours in Hall 73 on the third floor. Now the word has been given by the MP of the people, Natasha Milojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-26-0.u26607	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, dear colleagues, realizing that we may have received this text a little late and respecting the explanation of the representatives of the proposings, or a member of the Committee for the Writing of the Charter of Human and Minority Rights and Civil Liberties, I think that, and that means the Group of the Social Democratic Party, it is still necessary to say or point out several essential facts. After adopting the Constitutional Charter by adopting an act called this - the Charter of Human and Minority Rights and Civil Liberties, we have definitely shown that we are on the way to building a new state and completely new social relations. That's why I consider this act an almost historic act. So far we've talked about a country where we haven't treated human rights with any of the positive acts, starting with the Constitution, the way this text does. We have shown that we are ready for progress in this text, and progress primarily refers to progress in mutual relations - human, human, and then mutual relations in national or ethnic terms, and the introduction of an uncut, not new, but confirmations of a category called the citizen and his freedom. Changes and adoption of the human rights category by this text shows a respect for the rights that are in society, you will admit, still a rather unknown category, i.e. insufficiently understood. I will remind you that in the process of transition in which we are in and in the processes in which we are going, such as the processes of association and stabilisation, or the harmonisation of relations within the members of the future state union (I am still talking about the future, because in which day should be the formal state union), we are also becoming uncoupling candidates for European integration, i.e. formalising our future candidacy in the European integration process. I remind the public that a series of Copenhagen conditions, as they are called, begins with a point one called human rights. So the consciousness of the commission working on this text, its heterogeneous composition, and you know the heterogeneity of this composition, gives me some optimism. Which way? To finally recognise the necessary conditions, which we as a society, not just as state-owned, we must realize, to meet, to be worthy of valid, desirable integration processes in Europe. What is also very important for us Social Democrats is that definitely the text is abolished or sanctioned, punished, very clearly, every form of domination, nationalism and discrimination. In one article, if I am not mistaken, that is Article 14th position, violence is also punished in the event of an investigation against the accused, or accused person. It's a complete newspaper. I will remind you that violence was one, perhaps too strong this term, a desirable feature of members of the interior forces in the period until 2000. Violence in the investigative process was one common thing, which is why sites can confess the people of the Resistance to speak, as they say, and still some actions are directed towards the perpetrators of violence, still seeking punishment in Sandzak for the perpetrators of this violence in the process, and these penalties have not yet been applied. I welcome the final position of Article 14 in which this kind of violence is punishable. Article 32 of the Charter offered, says organisations acting in the direction of spreading racial, national, religious and any other hatred can be banned. It's also a newspaper. In what way is the news? Not as a legal or even constitutional text, but the determination of this text in Article 32, the final position, says that we will no longer tolerate those who resort to violence, whether they are organisations or individuals, according to another religion, another nation or some marginalised group. I hope that this will be thought very much and that anyone who thinks that this kind of violence should be applied before it's decided. The fact that the text of the charter, you will admit, is written in one period that is more than short, in a period that is more than tense, speaks and gives me the right to say that this text is not perfect. I'm looking at Mr. Jocic, because he explained it, and it's not just about you, my colleague Jocic, this is one well-intentioned criticism, not criticism for her own or the accusation - simply, there are places in the charter that are and how it should be done, polished, because some specifics cause confusion, or leave the possibility of interpretation. Interpreting can be positive, and it can also be negative. The possibility of a different interpretation leads to misunderstanding. An example is Article 52, if I am not mistaken, point 3 when it comes to the rights of national minorities, when the symbols of that national minority can be highlighted in public places. Yes, it stands at the end of that article that the law will specifically regulate the rights and obligations. I am merely warning that this law should rely on this text and that, in the same sense, it should be held accountable, equally accountable as just. It is also unfavourable to say that if we are calling for the general electoral right of every citizen to choose and be chosen, perhaps, and someone has already said this in a certain way, to look back on the positive discrimination of national minorities in the election for the parliaments of the Member States, i.e. the state union of Serbia-Montenegro. In this regard, in Article 52, I do not know exactly which position, 7 or 8, it stands - on a number of mandates in the Member State's assembly, a number of mandates should be more clearly defined. A certain number of mandates can be interpreted so that someone can be a small number of mandates, and one may be too large. The law will fix it. I pray that the creators and writers of this law who do so are very committed to it and are dealing with it in a precise way. Why do I say that? My colleagues, when we discussed this briefly an hour or two ago, drew attention to the possibility that the legal arrangement of this text, or where the text is called for by law, would have new misunderstandings or disagreements, or that these new legal arrangements would not be eroded or devalued the value of this text. In order for that not to happen, we are warning and underlining it again -- this is, in the opinion of the Social Democrats in this assembly, a turning point in social and state relations. Human rights are man's dominant rights. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-26-0.u26608	The word comes from MP Zoran Cirkovic, president of the New Serbia parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-26-0.u26609	Madam Chairman, gentlemen of the Ministers who are not present, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today is February 26th, the holiday of St Simeon's Peaceful, the father of Serbian statehood, and the glory of the political organisation New Serbia. I congratulate all members and supporters of New Serbia on the glory. And now on the subject, I join those who complained that the text of this Charter of Human and Minority Rights was received late. I've just met him, and if any of these remarks and he's moving on, it's just because of the speed I've been reading the text. I am aware that this text "small constitutional charter" completes the Constitutional Charter that regulates relations between the two Serbia-Montenegro member states in the new state union, which, thank God, is no longer Yugoslavia. Of course, our reserves that we had according to this text, according to the Constitutional Charter, remain even now, although declaratively New Serbia considers the text of the Charter of Human Rights to be good, for the simple reason that some of these are acquired European standards on human rights. There are conventions that regulate it and there are old declarations, beginning with Jefferson's declaration of freedom, and starting with the Serbian Constitution in 1835, which was able to write that when he set foot in Serbia, he also became a free man. For this reason, the universal right of asylum for all the persecuted in the world is one liquid in Serbia and it is simply not the historical range of this government. It's something that's positive in our national history and it's something that's been found. I will now cite some objections to this text, aware that it cannot leave any influence, for the simple reason that the current text cannot be intervened by amendment. What I said about the text of the Constitutional Charter and here it stands: there really was a lack of a scythist who could do it a little bit. Let's say, in preamble to this charter, it says -- defined for democracy, peace and tolerance, respect for human rights, the rule of law... The National Assembly... not well used, not "determined" but defined. As for minority rights and freedoms, Serbia freed the level after the Serbian revolution in the 1804th year. Prior to that, only its subjects, i.e. subjects, were sovereigns. Again, the objection to Article 4. - by the provisions of the members of this charter, we need to determine what we can do, not what we can't. In principle, there are much nicer sentences that are affirmative than those that are negative. Article 21: "No one can be punished twice for the same act." It's an old legal principle. I don't see the need for why it's the only thing that's keeping the Latin sense of not going, that it can't go twice, when it could simply be said in this way as I said Serbian and make it clear to everyone. When we talk about freedom of association, things can be fixed and we can say that everyone has the right to freedom of association, non-jointing and disunity and things become clear again. I was already saying that the right to shelter, i.e. asylum, in the state community of Serbia-Montenegro is a property of the rights that Serbia had in its constitutional history. Now something about the rights of members of the national minorities. The general observation of this text is that there is no definition of a national minority. That was simply necessary. We need to know what that applies to. I suspect it's the citizens of this country who have a country outside it, and they simply live here, because they're caught by a trail of historical opportunities or finally by their own free will, but let's say it. However, the term later has some shortcomings, because what we're going to do for those we consider national minorities, and they don't have their own country of origin, say for Shocks, Bunjevce, Vlaha and Roma. In that Article 47, the last position states that, in addition to the term of the national minority, other terms established by the Constitution and by the laws of the Member States can be equally applied. What other terms? I simply believe that excessive use of many terms creates confusion in our communication, and what creates confusion should simply be avoided. So we need to establish standards, what it is and just talk about it. If that's how we do it, then the misunderstandings in the beginning will be disabled. We're going to Article 52. Again, I object that the national minority has not defined itself. I don't know what the right to use its symbols in public places is about. We don't know who that applies to. We didn't list national minorities and we didn't define what it was. But now we're pointing to something that's going to be a paradox. At this point, Serbs do not have their symbols, because communists suspended them, and this new government retained those communists. Therefore, what was committed as violence can now return to us as a boomerang. At this point, national minorities have their symbols, because their countries have them and they can highlight them, and we don't know what we're saying. We just don't have anything to point out, and at this point, we're handicapped. So here, indeed, the rights of the majority people or of the native people are violated, if they don't sting someone's ears. "Yes in the middle with a significant minority population", etc. "the names of streets and settlements, as well as topographic labels, will be written in minority language" -- I agree and again ask the question of what are national minorities. As long as we don't find out, we'll have trouble knowing what's going on. In this brief presentation, I have pointed to some of the shortcomings of this text. In general, what currently represents the level of freedom achieved, what has been adopted by international agreements and conventions, is the text contained in this "little constitutional charter" and it is, of course, implemented in conjunction with the Constitutional Charter that preceded this. Objection that there wasn't enough time just didn't stand. It was more than nine, ten months to get to this text, and there was no special effort to make. It is enough to rewrite international conventions governing these human and minority rights.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-26-0.u26610	Do any of the other presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? No, I don't. ) We move to application for word in the debate on the Charter of Human and Minority Rights and Civil Liberties. The first to be declared is MP Dragan Lazic, followed by MP Milos Lukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-26-0.u26611	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, obviously she's given up attention, a little of us in the O.R., but I'll try to be as brief as possible. In Serbia, as recorded, there are 35 national minorities and ethnic groups. For this whole period since World War II, Serbia has somehow represented some kind of experimental zone when it comes to interethnic relations, i.e. when it comes to the status of nations and national minorities. When I say the nation, we really had some constitutional solutions in one period of time that we were chasing what religion is, and what a nation is; and when it comes to national minorities, there was a classic relationship of discrimination. In fact, we had a position that one national minority in that period was completely favored by other national minorities, I mean the Albanian national minority. World and European interethnic practices do not know this attitude of national minorities by quality, and especially by quantity. We took an example of an Albanian national minority who was treated only by quantity at that time and, of course, not to feel threatened, began to have such a favouring policy against them that they were first-classed, unlike other national minorities, which later took revenge on us. Albania's national minority was treated as a national minority pair of excellencies during that period, so they were mostly in some of the socio-political structures at the time, as well as on the majorisation on the second plan. First of all, I'm thinking about their birth rate, which is favored from the very top of our community's country, and even, if you remember correctly, Broz bested every eight children. In order for this favoration to rise to a higher level, a Fund for Undeveloped Areas and Kosovo was formed, where at that time a day was poured into Kosovo's case of about $1.3m. You'll admit, it's a figure of about $500 million a year. Unfortunately, instead of using it for the right purposes, it was used in principle, which a communist official from that time observed, to achieve a European standard, but with Asian Nataliety, but that enormous birth rate was later avenged. I'm saying this for the simple reason that lately there's been a lot of noise when it comes to the national minority of Bosniaks and the Hungarian national minority. We must indeed remove all these traps by this constitutional charter, that one true European or world relationship is created for all national minorities, however you wish, but we must not fall into that trap to favour certain national groups again, because it will certainly take revenge on us. That is why I am not behind the position that is being held in Vojvodina these days, which is to connect some municipalities by ethnic principle, which would also trigger the unification of some Albanian municipalities, which is where I primarily think of Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedja. This does not mean that the same principle would not lead to the unification of municipalities in Sandzak, or Raška, when it comes to Novi Pazar, Tutin, Sjenica and other sites with the majority Bosniak population. When it comes to that, I think it's perfectly right that we accept this universal principle towards national communities and national minorities, to take advantage of all the chances that are being given to us, but at the same time to break up with the past and break up with all the tendencies of potential secession.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-26-0.u26612	The People's Messenger Milos Lukic has the word, and then the People's Messenger Melank Shandor.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-26-0.u26613	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on the adoption of the Charter of Human and Minority Rights and Civil Liberties obliges us, first and foremost, Article 8. Constitutional statutes. That's what's formal. However, several questions are raised. What makes us feel that for such a short time, in just a few hours after receiving one material, we approach its adoption and how does someone living in a state of Serbia who has its own statehood for centuries and who, as part of Yugoslavia, as one of the first members of the United Nations, has participated in the adoption of many international conventions on human rights and has always been one of the first signatories of these conventions? There's an impression that someone forced it on us. That's certainly not good for anyone who listens to this and who's supposed to be discussing this charter today. Surely the content of the charter should not be controversial, given what it regulates and since it is, in fact, a set of all those regulations that we have already applied. What is the purpose of this charter? First of all, we believe that the goal is to admit that we have not yet respected human rights. This may be someone who did not respect human rights and can accept, however, most of the population should not be reconciled to the fact. Another goal might also be to recognise that there is no legal continuity with the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and with all the previous Yugoslavias that, as I have already said, have participated in the adoption of many international conventions, as well as in their application. We also admit that we do not have enough dignity when we allow ourselves to adopt such an act in such a short time. However, when it comes to human rights, there are categories that have been crystallized for centuries, and they've been codified for centuries, and we're doing it in this country for some 24 hours. We've heard here the assessment that this is a historic moment. We of the Soviet Union believe that this is not a historic moment and that this country has its dignity, that it has respected human rights and will respect them in the future. The respect of human and minority rights and civil freedoms, surely, should always be given to the thinking of power. So whoever's in power is also responsible for the picture of that state. That picture that's spreading around this country to the world, above all, will depend on those who apply these regulations. They reiterate the opposition of the Serbian Unity Party, which is already professor. Borislav Pelevic brought out. This is an insufficient protection of national minorities, insufficient protection of the majority population, an imprecise formulation of religious sects and religious communities, i.e. the formulation of religious sects in a way that does not cover those classical religious communities, but leaves the possibility of spreading the list, which is very dangerous. Also, the opposition of the Soviet Union refers to the objection of conscience, that is, the civil constraint of the military term. Our objection specifically concerns the rights of diaspora to choose and be elected. The fact is, you all have to agree, we're right when we ask that our diaspora finally get the rights guaranteed by the Constitution. In the end, Article 10. The Constitutional Charter is said to apply international law and international agreements directly, so that no purpose is seen in this hasty adoption of this Charter. The question arises - what are the sanctions and who are applying them. The fact that these sanctions will be applied by the international community also says that this has been imposed on us and that we probably have to accept this. The SS won't vote for this charter.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-26-0.u26614	The People's Messenger Melank Shandor has the word, and after him is the Messenger of the people, Milorad Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-26-0.u26615	Dear ladies and gentlemen, the acceptance of this document on human rights and freedoms certainly would prevent an absurd situation for the future state community to find itself in one legal vacuum, guaranteeing all those human and minority rights, which are important for one society, especially a society that tends to enter into one wider European integration, to be left without that basis, which, after all, makes a basic document the basis for all the other steps taken by passing the law. Certainly, the promoter in this case was very much involved, that he adequately covered all spheres of human rights and freedom. The promoter sought to fully accept the values of this modern society, primarily the right to live, as a fundamental human right, and then all others. Article 3 concerning the prohibition of discrimination lists all types of indirect and direct discrimination. So, discrimination against color, race, gender, language, religious beliefs and definitions, age. However, a small grudge might be right in this place, which is that discrimination against people of different sexual orientations has been ignored. We can't stay blind and deaf to what happened, say, last year with people who stepped out bravely in this regard, to put up their protest against discrimination. We know that this was a painful situation, and I don't see any reason for this discrimination to be found in this charter. I could comment yet, based on what the previous speaker was saying, means religious freedom, freedom and thought, religion, and that's Article 23; also, separation from the state. I would not agree that only four confesions are represented in legal acts, for it must be said that the term - sect in modern philosophy, sociology, and science is already replaced by a term - a small religious community. I think that the characterization of a religious community as a cult is not a question that could be absorbed into this building. Certainly, we represent the opinion that, as with any other association, if the objectives of this association are, and in practice, directed against basic human rights, those of others, that such associations should be placed under some legislative regulations. So I don't see the justification of that fear of sects, especially when there's no clear definition of sects. A member who determines citizenship, which I think is Article 35, the state union of Serbia-Montenegro is also satisfactorily formulated here, so, as the extension states, it prevents the extradition of citizens outside the territory of the state community, except in line with the international obligations of the state community. I'm undermining this, because we need to be aware that our association with the international community can hardly be said if this term "other than" doesn't stand there. Given these and many other positive provisions in this Charter, I would like to invite the ladies and gentlemen of Parliament to vote on this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-26-0.u26616	The word is made by the People's Messenger Milorad Mircic. He's not there. The People's Messenger Nenad Lemajic has the word, and after him is the Messenger of the people, Ljubisa Maravić. National MP Nenad Lemajic is not present. The word of the messenger of the people is Ljubisa Maravić, and after him is the messenger of the people, Pal Shandor.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-26-0.u26617	Dear fellow Members of Parliament, the text of the proposal is seen at first sight as to why the text of this Charter was delivered to us Members only the night before it was considered. As our public spent months dealing with that text of the Constitutional Charter, a far more dangerous text has been prepared in silence for the vital interests of the Serb people in general. The topic of human rights has always been interesting in the past, and as we see in the case of Iraq, it's interesting today. However, we must also remind ourselves that as a result of the human rights threat story, Slovenians and Croats have torn apart our former common state and formed their national states. To this day, no one else can write about it. On the other hand, we Serbs are becoming more and more strongly accused of the intention of creating a great Serbia, so even the so-called for violent proof of this thesis was formed. The Hague Tribunal. It is now quite obvious in light of the fact that in Cheveningen today there are, among other things, five former Serbian heads of state. What about the Albanian summit? Supreme cynicism is the latest indictments against four Albanians charged with crimes, allegedly human rights violations, and certainly is, but not against Serbs, but Albanians. We know for ourselves that Serbs were the biggest victims in the former SFRY's premises. I am for respecting human rights, but I'm afraid this charter means nothing more than creating a legal framework for further fragmenting the existing state. I would like to be quite precise - if our country is the state of all citizens living in it, members of national minorities have the same rights as all other citizens. If we want to protect minority rights, then let us first establish some rights of the Serb people in our own country. This particularly concerns us Serbs who still live in the space of Kosovo and Metohija, and more than a few hundred thousand expelled Serbs from our southern province, whom world powers have been lying for four years that everything is fine, that there is nothing to worry about, except when they wish to return to their centuries-old hearths. Then their return is gone, and 800,000 exiled Serbs west of Drina, not to mention. Where were these worldly and some domestic concubines in 1998 when the Cypriot terrorist gangs for a very short time ethnically cleaned up hundreds of settlements in Kosovo and Metohija, driving out of them Serbs who have lived there for centuries? Instead of helping us defend our human rights, they've dried us up with bombs, killed thousands of innocent people, women and children, and destroyed hundreds of billions of dollars of property that they had created before us. The peak of this cynicism is a flossula about the fictional Kosovo people whose human and minority rights we, for God's sake, have been suppressing and suffocating. Dear ladies and gentlemen, I know that the power of God does not beg and that our enemy can force us to do anything. That doesn't mean we have to make a contribution. So I suggest that our position be, regardless of our diversity, to tell them literally: meet, gentlemen of the world's power centers, your commitment to Security Council Resolution 1244. Then, don't blackmail us, gentlemen, with some sort of Hague to give us change from your wallets. Give us instead just make money to repent of the crimes you've committed and still do. Then we'll all vote what needs to be done, with it being of interest to our people and the state. We have always shown in history that in these places we have as a people the most human soul. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we should all say once publicly that we are not naive enough to be forced into the imagined Western Balkans as a second-rate nation, guilty of everything that is wrong in these areas, and that someone is explaining to us that this Charter on the Protection of Human and Minority Rights and Civil Liberties will be implemented in the space of Kosovo and Metohija. Of the 57 members of this charter offered to us today, I found 28 members to violate human and minority rights in Kosovo and Metohija. It violates human dignity and the free development of personality. Then, Article 3 says that any direct discrimination is forbidden; are Serbs, Roma, Gorans, Muslims not discriminated today in Kosovo and Metohija? Human and minority rights (represented in Article 7) will be guaranteed by international law. Why is this international law not respected in Kosovo and Metohija? Judicial protection and the removal of the consequences of human and minority rights violations (this is mentioned in several members) -- today in Kosovo and Metohija prisons there are dozens of Serbs, who have been waiting for trial for four years, and here, we see here in certain members to talk about the violation and failure of adequate protection. The right to life - Article 11 says it is uncut. Well, aren't we in Kosovo and Metohija at risk? Then, direct physical and psychological protection -- it is also at risk of integrity in Kosovo and Metohija. The ban on slavery - Article 13 refers to slavery. No one gives an explanation of what happened to 1,300 kidnapped and missing persons from Kosovo and Metohija, where are they? Are they not found in forced labor, which is forbidden, as said in Article 13? The right to freedom and security; the right to freedom of movement; to a fair trial; the right to property; Article 24 says "no one should enter another's apartment", and more than 250,000 Serbs have been expelled from Kosovo and Metohija, whose apartments the Albanians entered. Disrespect for media freedom -- Albanian media today have their television programmes for nearly 24 hours, and Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija have only half an hour's emissions. Isn't that a violation of the law? The freedom of association -- a Serb community of municipalities was formed yesterday, all voiced out of the international community against it. Why is our right to be denied? The right to freedom of movement - about him not to speak. Right to work (in Article 40) - there are 80,000 employees from Kosovo and Metohija. Who will guarantee that this 40th member will be honored? Article 42. - social contributions, social security; a healthy environment referred to in Article 46. No one is talking about the increased disease of people in the area of Kosovo and Metohija from cancer. We all know that in the space of Kosovo and Metohija, American bombers A-10 threw poor uranium. Who will honor this member tomorrow? Freedom of expression of national identity; ban on discrimination, ban on causing racial, national and religious hatred, and not to speak any further. Someone has to answer these questions before the Charter is adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-26-0.u26618	The word has a People's MP, Pal Shandor (not present), followed by MP Dragan Markovic. Instead of MP Dragan Markovic, the word has been made by MP Petar Petrovic, a parliamentary group of the Soviets (infringing the Rules of Procedure).
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-26-0.u26619	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am advertising the violation of Rule 82.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-26-0.u26620	Article 82(2) reads: "The quorum for the work of the National Assembly exists if at least one third of the MPs are present at the meeting of the National Assembly." According to electronic records, a member is not injured. The word has a folk MP, Stevan Guduric.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-26-0.u26621	Mrs. Komic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, perhaps that electronic system shows it, but if we were counting, it would look very different. When we talk about human and minority rights and civil liberties, we might be more likely to wonder what we, as a state, are doing for our people living in one part in the territory of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, and in another part beyond that. Here in one article it is said, "There is no forced assimilation"; well, let's look ourselves in the eye, so let's say how many Hungarians were in Vojvodina in 1918 and how many Serbs were in Hungary in 1918 and where are we now, and who has assimilated whom; are we such a world that picks up everyone else, or someone else buys us? We could talk earlier that something should be done in this country and under this law to protect Serbs in Serbia. I don't see that others are particularly threatened, because it takes too long to see that in Serbia the greatest shame was being a Serb. Someone can come out now and talk differently, except this is one naked truth. It's no itching. But if we stand for others, let us once advocate for ourselves, let once, at least as others in Serbia, have rights for Serbs. And if we do that with what's going to be part of this charter, we're going to do a lot of things, and if we don't, then we're getting rid of this paper.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-26-0.u26622	The word has a folk MP, Stevan Kesejić (not here). National MPs Toma Busetic and Sreten Mitrovica change the order within the same group, so the People's MP Sreten Mitrovica has the word. The word has been issued by MP Petar Petrovic, advocating the violation of the Rules of Procedure, on behalf of the Soviet Parliament group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-26-0.u26623	Madam Chairman, you have just injured Article 82, because I have advertised Article 82(2). Now, for your notice, I have to read it: "The quorum for the work of the National Assembly exists if at least one third of the MPs are present in the session of the National Assembly", not what is on the screen. There are therefore no 84 MPs present. Please check to see if there are 84 MPs present.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-26-0.u26624	It's no problem, just point out the proper injury. So, except there's no breach of the Rules of Procedure, as you pointed out, because you and I read the same attitude. And once again, there is a quorum for the work of the National Assembly if at least one third of the MPs are present at the meeting of the National Assembly. The first check for the quorum is an electronic system, as otherwise we determine the quorum so that we can begin work, and what you wanted probably for the first time, and yet for the second time now, it is that the president, or the authorised representative of the parliamentary group, expressed doubts about the existence of the quorum; this is the position of the 6th Article 82, therefore, that you also called for the position of the 6th Article 82. Due to the express suspicion of MP Petar Petrovic, I ask the National Assembly to determine if there is a quorum for work. I find that we have a quorum and I thank the MP for the intervention. The word has a folk MP, Sreten Mitrovica.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-26-0.u26625	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us the text of the Charter of Human and Minority Rights and Civil Liberties. The constitution established Yugoslavia as a civil state in which the exercise of freedom and rights was made available to all citizens. This concept is particularly complemented by certain elements of collective rights, where minority rights are recognised to preserve and develop, as well as the expression of their ethnic, cultural, linguistic and other specificities, as well as the use of national symbols in accordance with international law. The citizens are guaranteed constitutional freedom of expression of nationality, culture and religion and the use of native language and letter, but the right not to declare their nationality or religious conviction is also allowed. A group of specific rights relating to minority members also includes the right to education, information in the native language, the right to highlight national symbols, the right to use language in front of state authorities, the right to establish educational, religious and cultural associations with the State's material assistance, the right to maintain contacts with the home state and to participate in the work of NGOs, so that they can be proportionately represented in public services, state authorities and local self-government. I don't know what's inaccessible to national minorities here or what's a violation of human rights. The new Charter of the New Community of Serbia-Montenegro will certainly adopt this new Charter of Human and Minority Rights of Citizens, but the question arises - will it apply and will this authority manage to establish respect for the law and protection of human rights throughout its territory? Kosovo and Metohija are part of this state community, but under the protection of the international community, and the same which is constantly giving us a lecture on human rights. Because of the threat to the human rights of Albanians, we have experienced bombings, and thus great casualties, destruction, the arrival of the so-called peace forces on the territory of Kosovo and Metohija. And it's all supposed to be under the protection of all the residents who live there. We know what happened in Kosovo and Metohija with their arrivals, and today, unfortunately, nothing changes. The minority non-Albanian population in the part of their country under surveillance and with the presence of 50,000 so-called "Airports". Peacekeepers experience the greatest genocide, persecution, murder, ban on freedom of movement in their territory; they are threatened with the right to work, to speak, and the worst -- the right to live. With the presence of peacemakers, ethnically cleared from Serbs around 98 mixed environments has been expelled. Kosovo and Metohija remain what they were today -- a highly ill organism, which, under the medical supervision of the international community and international forces have not yet cured. For three and a half years, it wasn't enough for her to at least start to realize the return of an exiled and evicted population, to create basic security conditions for minority communities, to start real decentralisation of authorities and start with the decriminalization of society. Her presence still has the sole purpose of physical restraint of the worst, and quite a number of extremist efforts to finally clear the territory of Serbs and to possess their property in one way or another. In such a situation, a more realistic line of less resistance, a gradual downsizing under the lines of majority pressure and the practical consent to the project - independent Kosovo. All of this was caused by the minority Albanian community, which was reportedly deprived of minority rights during the rule of Slobodan Milosevic. Supported by foreign mercenaries, it is now doing the same in southern Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-26-0.u26626	On the basis of Article 84(2), I would like to inform the National Assembly that there are eight other speakers on the list and that we have an obligation to conclude the debate on the Charter of Human and Minority Rights and Civil Liberties. The president of the National Assembly has scheduled the next extraordinary session, and it is understood that we will have the next extraordinary session immediately after the debate on the Charter of Human and Minority Rights and Civil Liberties has ended. Without a vote, we cannot decide to continue to work in the course of the break, although I personally think that we could listen with the patience and respect of eight more of our colleagues, which would keep us at a pace that is meant for the work of the Assembly. Given the subject we have, can I give a word to MP Petar Petrovic and ask to be heard, given the importance of the topic and thus give importance to the Charter that is practically the first time brought forward. We're bound by deadlines. Are you okay with that? The word has a National MP, Petar Petrovic. (A number of MPs leaving the O.R.) ) Unfortunately, MP, the electronic system has determined that we do not have a quorum, and yet we remain on that we will have a break until 15.00 hours, so you will receive a word after the break. Thank you very much. [[After a break.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing the session of the extraordinary session, according to reports for the debate on the Charter of Human and Minority Rights and Civil Liberties. To determine if there is a quorum needed to work this part of the session, please insert your cards into the electronic identification system. I find that we have a quorum to work on and we continue to debate in order of the registered MPs. The word has been issued by MP Petar Petrovic, with an apology for being called for a pay phone, but no conditions have been met in the previous part. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-26-0.u26628	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is before us the Charter of Human and Minority Rights, which most of us received this morning and the vast majority did not until the beginning of this session nor managed to read all the members of the Charter. According to the parliamentary club, the SSJ did not have to move this fast with the adoption of this charter, for the simple reason that, in our opinion, there is nothing new and revolutionary in this book compared to how the area of minority rights was regulated by the Constitution of the SRJ, which you have destroyed, and by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which is still in force and which also regulates in many of its members the human and minority rights of the Serbian people and of all ethnic communities and national minorities living in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. But what is there is, I will try to expose the position of the Soviet Union to some of the members of this charter that the promoter gave and regulated by human and minority rights. I'll start with Article 3 where, among other things, all citizens are said to be equal before the law. It is formal, that all citizens are equal before the law, but in practice, ladies and gentlemen, it is quite different. Citizens who support the DOS option are in a more favourable position than other citizens before the law. You have different examples across Serbia, from many cities and villages, and you can verify that it is true. So, this letter on paper, we in the Soviet Union, warmly support it and we would like it to be applied to all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, that is, to the Serbian people and to all ethnic communities and national minorities living in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. There is a question about Article 20, which we also have an objection to. Article 20 states that "no one can be found guilty or punished for an act which, before it was carried out, was not intended by law as punishable". Since you are preparing some regulations that we can only read about in the press and listen to through various electronic media, to prepare laws that will retroactively punish for certain works, some works, or what (this popularly called lustration, or how) which, according to present or then, were not foreseen, we wonder whether the Charter will be applied (and this article) as it says in this Constitutional Charter. In particular, I would like to emphasise and transfer the position of the SS when it comes to Article 23, which concerns the right to property. Among other things, it says: "The right to property is guaranteed and the right to inherit. The use of property can be limited by law, in accordance with the general interest." I ask you a question, ladies and gentlemen, when will you and will you finally pass a law on the return of unwarranted property to all citizens of the Republic of Serbia after 1945 - and all parties in the fight for power in pre-election campaigns are saying that one of the first tasks will be to just pass a law which will return to the unwarranted assets - just to apply this member that you have provided for in the Charter. We of the Soviet Union suggest that you immediately, as soon as tomorrow, put on the agenda of this assembly, re-emerge the unwarranted assets of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. When it comes to Article 28. (That's what the President of the Soviet Union was talking about), it's about objecting to conscience, we ask one question -- are they, citizens of the Republic of Serbia who want to exercise certain rights equally with all citizens of other religions and nationalities, etc., whether they are members of the Serbian people or not, just want to exercise their rights, but not obligations? We ask the question - what happens if someone attacks this country tomorrow and someone calls for a conscience and simply says he can't carry a weapon because his faith or commitment doesn't accept it? Then we ask, did he speak the same way to the objection of conscience when it comes to certain rights, which are exercised in this country, based on the constitutional charter, based on the Constitution and the law? In article 36, you put in an entirely unnecessary provision, which is that adulthood in this country comes at 18 years of age. Well, I guess there are other regulations that regulate that area and say when the citizens of this country get their age. If you already wanted this provision to stand here, why didn't you go ahead and say what a younger minor was, an older minor, a younger adult, etc. As far as we all know, it is very well regulated by other positive regulations, such as the Criminal Law of the Republic of Serbia, the Family Act, etc. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, the question arises, if we are already here protecting the rights of national minorities, should this charter also protect the rights of members of the Serb people in those municipalities, cities, etc. where they represent a minority, or where they are in a small number inhabited by members of national minorities and ethnic communities. You didn't write any letters here. At the same time, I remind you that you should apply the principle of reciprocity here, which means that members of the Serbian people should have in other countries where they live and represent a national minority or ethnic community, but as they call them, the same rights that we offer to members of the national minorities of those countries. Do Serbs have the same rights in these countries? We in the Soviet Union are responsible for saying that this is not so, that members of these peoples in Serbia have far greater rights than those of the Serb people in those countries where they now live. And in the end, I can't help but look back at the presentation of an esteemed colleague here, who, among other things, said there was a new definition of religious sects, when it comes to the right to freedom of religion and religion, so he said they were small religious communities. Well, gentlemen, we from the Party, of Serbian unity, cannot support such "small religious communities", which recruit young, underage citizens of Serbia, or children, where sacrifices are offered, diverse, various temples and gods. Gentlemen, the Serbian Unity Party is not for such freedom of faith and religion. We are for every citizen to have the right to freely express his faith, but we are not for sects that are fatal to the Serbian people, or for the youth of Serbia. In the end, when it comes to sexual freedom, all those who advocate sexual freedom that is not natural, what it is for centuries, when it is known what members of the male and female sex of this Serbia do, let those sexual freedoms exhibit in another way, but don't ask to enter the charter, because I guess we've known for centuries what sex is in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-26-0.u26629	The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-26-0.u26630	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Tomislav Nikolic spoke more extensively about details and individual members, in general, in the end, about this text, and I would only include a few members in my presentation, especially when it comes to the right to freedom and security. The Serbian Radical Party has insisted in the federal government and managed to draft a law on criminal proceedings that would comply with all European standards and with criminal proceedings in countries with the most developed legal systems. We in the federal government then managed to bring police privileges into line and bring down to that certain minimum, in line with European standards and, on the other hand, according to the federal and republican constitution. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this text shows that there is no protection in criminal and criminal proceedings, especially when it comes to human rights, security and freedom of citizens. We succeeded in this Code of Criminal Procedure, when we codified, although we had strong resistance to these allegations, there was no adoption of those provisions concerning the discretionary powers of the internal affairs authorities. In that part, we have disabled further privileges related to the deprivement of the freedom of our citizens, the determination of detention and the conduct of the investigation. In addition, we have managed to establish the suspect's institute in parallel. The Code of Criminal Procedure provides that suspects, called by the internal affairs authorities, are to be called by a written invitation. The call must indicate in which capacity this person is called and that he has the right to take the lawyer out of the line of attorneys; that he is not obliged to answer the questions asked and that he has the right to defend himself by silence. Abuses in this part have been observed, although a new Code of Criminal Procedure has been adopted. What are these abuses? The abuses are seen in the fact that the persons are called and asked if they want or do not want a defender, but if the citizen pleads not to want a defender, then he is called on to write a statement about what he was called into the internal affairs organs. Those persons are not told that by their statement in the interior authorities' premises they can put themselves in a position to be accused and accused of certain crimes today and tomorrow. In parallel, there is no authority of the internal affairs authorities, nor of the police, to determine detention, although the Charter also points out that the arrested person has to be conducted by the competent court within 48 hours. What does that mean? What category is that? What is the status of our citizens when they say - has to be implemented within 48 hours of the competent court. What about him for 48 hours? Is he under arrest? Is he deprived of his freedom? Yes, it is. Where is he? He's not in the hotel. He's still a face that's been deprived of liberty and detained. Furthermore, even the Charter here gives the police the right to keep 48 hours and to make a solution to the detention. What kind of detention is that? What kind of category is that? The Constitution doesn't know that. Only the court is authorized to come up with a solution for determining detention, which is detention, because the face of 48 hours has been deprived of freedom. There's also talk here of a lawyer defending by official duty. This category has been compromised to the extent that it is just a mere formality mentioned in the Charter. It has been compromised for reasons why the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Finance do not finance defence under official duty, and thousands and thousands of defences are under official duty; therefore, these defences, by my assessment, and by my colleague, have been compromised and therefore the Ministry of Finance is obliged to pay the defence by official duty to provide legal protection for the citizens. Like this, we can write in this charter everything and everything, but there's nothing out of it. For this reason, however, citizens must be guaranteed certain security and security, and police must comply with certain constitutional provisions and with comparable law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-26-0.u26631	The People's Messenger Tom Bushetić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-26-0.u26632	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is difficult to talk about this document at this time because it is obvious that the whole of Serbia is monitoring the start of the trial of Vojislav Seselj, our fellow MP, and it would be fair to interrupt the session to accompany the start, because the defence of Slobodan Milosevic and Vojislav Seselj in The Hague is a national and state issue. But there's obviously not enough understanding for that. When it comes to this document, it brings nothing new to the content already in existence in the Serbian Constitution. Minority rights, human rights, individual, collective and civil freedoms in our country and Serbia and the SRJ were at the highest level, according to the highest standards of Europe and the world. If we just look back at minority rights, we know specifically that in Vojvodina more than 30 national minorities live in harmony with the majority Serb people, because everything is arranged in the best way. Such rights were also given to members of the Albanian national minority in Kosovo and Metohija, but we know for what reasons they did not benefit. I guess in Serbia today it is clear to everyone that in Kosovo and Metohija, human rights, minority rights, were not at risk, but that it was something else, means that aggression came because of NATO's concrete interests in the pact. When it comes to the document itself, at the beginning of Article 5, we have one contradiction and contradiction with Article 9. Constitutional statutes. We know very well, we warned a few days ago when we adopted the Constitutional Charter, that it is necessary to take care of that member where it is said that minority, human rights, individual and civil liberties cannot be reduced, that is to say, that the level should not be reduced. Such a solution in the Charter is devastating and difficult to correct now by this document, because all states retain the possibility of these rights or freedoms being restricted and suspended. Of course, under certain conditions. These conditions are, for example, separatist, armed rebellion, terrorist acts. Today, in southern Serbia, we have one such situation. Hardly, according to this document, the state can and can intervene. The remarks are big, the examples are done, and the 27th where religious communities are spoken of. This is where the religious communities were to be defined, because a small door opens the possibility of the free operation of religious sects, and we know very well that religious sects have had a devastating impact on all countries in transition, in Russia in particular, so that our fate is similar to the fate of all these countries. The next article discusses the civil service of the military term; we now have The Hague as Damocle's sword, and then civil service of the military term, so who will defend this country. It is obvious that this is being imposed on the sidelines and that it will have a lot of devastating consequences for both the people and the country. Or, Article 30 says that Serbia-Montenegro has no censorship and censorship in the state community. It is hardly possible that after the adoption of this act to reduce censorship, everything is simply controlled by the representatives of the current authorities, so that no promotion can be expected after the adoption of this Charter of Minority and Human Rights. When we talk about freedom of association in Article 32 where certain political organisations are said to be, and here they are talking about organisations, they can be banned, the government can very easily declare the most serious political opponents for those who want to bring down constitutional order, better say the entire government, and ban them. This article is unspeakable and should eventually be incorporated into a sentence - in accordance with the law. When we talk about the right to education, we have here that basic conservation is mandatory; and what about the second, what about high school, what about college, is this a step back from the solutions that existed in the current Constitution. When it comes to the rights of national minorities, we have a ban on violent assimilation. We know very well, it was presented in the afternoon debate, there is no assimilation in Serbia, but what about the assimilation of our people in many countries around us? In Hungary, 300,000 Serbs were in 1918, and now there are five, six, or 10,000. When we talk about Article 52 - the right to preserve speciality, at point 2 - the right to use its symbols in public places and we talked about it; it is an Albanian flag in southern Serbia. Where's the Serbian flag? What did this government do to change that? Covic is visiting Robertson today, is he going to solve something, does anyone even suspect that the Cypriots are doing something without the consent of their mentors on the side? Simply, adopting this charter will not improve the position, primarily that part of the people most at risk, which is the Serbian people in Kosovo and Metohija, it is the Serb people in southern Serbia. Here, first of all, through this charter, care for Vojvodina, the Raska area, and there are problems where there are no problems, but the scenario has already been seen several times in this country and someone from the so-called international communities, will express concern for any provision, related to the exercise of minority rights. That's the scenario we already know, that's how it's been going these years. For all these reasons, we will not vote for this charter.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-26-0.u26633	The word has a People's MP, Aleksandar Vucic, and the next one registered for the word is MP Bora Drakulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-26-0.u26634	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to take the opportunity to invite the citizens of Serbia to watch the statement of the president of the SRS, Dr Vojislav Seselj, on TV B92. I'm sure and I hope he can break up that anti-Serbian tribunal. As for the proposed Charter, I have to say that it's brought back under political pressure, and that we don't know what it's for, that we don't know why we're bringing it, because nothing new protects this charter, there's no right, so on. rights, human rights of the newest generations, there is nothing that we do not already have the declarative norms protected in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia as the highest legal act of our country and in other lower legal acts and what is protected by the Constitution of the SRJ. So, the mere repetition of empty phrases from which someone should say that they are very concerned about human rights and freedoms, especially minority rights, that nothing has been protected before, so now some new ones have come that will be more and better and better and otherwise succeed and are able to do so. In addition to repeating the standards that already exist in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, in the Constitution of the SRJ, we have several cynical norms. Cynic, considering our everyday life, our legal practice. One of the basic legal institutes, as is the assumption of innocence, by which everyone is innocent until his guilt is determined by the court's judicial decision, we see a mockery being thrown into ordinary life, in what the DOS-Mali regime is doing. Every day, there's a smart-ass who's going to salt the judges' minds about how they have to rule, how they have to act, and what to do in a particular procedure, where they will and where they won't exclude the public from the session, how much judgment there has to be, etc. Let me not tell you now about the famous case of indictments and later the judicial verdicts against Radomir Markovic and some other people from the State Security Service, where under the pressure of the public are being made so-called. compromise judgments, where fundamental human rights and human freedoms are violated, where as anyone shouts and roars on television and as anyone says, well, there must be such a verdict, even if it rightly had nothing to do with it; so there are geniuses who say it can be 40 years, and the death penalty, even though there was no punishment of 40 years at the time of the execution. Anything is possible when DOS minorities are in power, when they understand it that way. You're talking about the right to marry, and you're not saying anywhere that it's a man and a woman, but marriage can make every one, two women, and two men, it's only about spouses. These are some new democratic fluids. You find this objection of conscience interesting to you, because we have little time, where it is said that no one is obliged to carry a rifle, against his faith or belief, to fulfil a military obligation; therefore, it does not have to be for religious reasons, but has a man of conviction, does not like to carry a rifle, does not have to be a man of military obligation; what we need is an army, what we need a state, what do we need anything, as far as anyone thinks, so can and so must behave. Then it is said about freedom of opinion and expression, it is also a declarative norm that exists both in the Constitution and in all other legal acts -- everyone has the right to freedom of opinion and expression, and this right includes freedom to speak, write, paint or in any other way seek, receive and general notice and ideas. The night before last, after a magnificent rally organized as the escort of Dr. Vojislav Seselj to The Hague...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-26-0.u26635	Please return to the topic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-26-0.u26636	I'm talking about the subject, but you listen to me very carefully. It happened that all televisions, private and state, were ordered to throw it out of the main news after 19.00 hours or what is said, heda, and it was ordered not to go to the tone of Vojislav Seselj. If you say that's not true, I'll tell you exactly on which televisions and which editors under their news didn't sign, and many didn't sign that night, because they got that order.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-26-0.u26637	I warn you this has nothing to do with the subject of the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-26-0.u26638	It has to do with, but you don't understand it or you don't understand it, if you say it, but anything can happen to you. The employees here have the right to strike, in accordance with the law, unless Gašo Knezevic says anything. Either shut up or go out for a pay phone, and say what you have to say, but shut up, shut up until you get out for the pay phone. (Borivoj Katic, from the place: I will say.) (Milka Marinkovic, from the scene: "Don't let me come to you there." ) It is said - improving the conditions of life, and in Section 2: "The measures of the attitude of the 1st member, when necessary, provide for the removal of extremely unfavourable conditions of life which particularly affect members of a particular national minority". What particularly affects members of a particular national minority? What worse way does Joseph Kasa live than anyone else who is a member of the Serb family lives here in this room? What's worse? What's wrong with him? The fact that he's a white-world thief and a criminal and now everybody else needs to...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-26-0.u26639	On the basis of Article 101. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly tell you the first warning, Messenger of the people.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-26-0.u26640	Why are you giving me a warning? What did I tell the truth? Now Joseph Kasa is at risk because I don't know what. What was it about him when he was missing or anyone else? Say it specifically, let's see. In this way, the Serb people collapse to the national minority level, below national minorities, under the rights of national minorities, that we are not the same. They will especially improve the conditions of life. For what? The whole nation lives badly, the whole nation lives in poverty, the whole people lives in misery, and what's special is what needs to be done. I have to say that everything we've experienced in this country shows how human rights and freedoms are taken care of. Especially by adopting anti-constitutional regulations, laws handing over Serbia to The Hague tribunal. Once again, I call, ending, all those who watched this turn to B92 and watch Vojislav Seselj's statement. I'm sure they'll have a lot to see, how the heart defends itself and how brave and heroic it is.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-26-0.u26641	The word has a folk MP, Bora Drakulovic, and the next one registered for the word is Ljubomir Kragovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-26-0.u26642	Dear fellow MPs, citizens of Serbia, I will be really brief, because I have reason to approach this Charter of Civil and Minority Rights differently, because I come from one of those nine municipalities that join together. You know why, we're the only ones who won't figure it out. I come from a municipality where, I must say, the rights of citizens are being violated, and in order to be accurate and accurate, I'm going to set an example for you. The municipality from which I come, Mali Ijoš, specifically numbers three settlements: Feketiæ, Lovčenac and Mali Ijoš. Ijoš is a secluded Hungarian settlement, Lovčenac is a pure Serbian-Montenegrin settlement, and in Feketić there is 60%-70% of Hungarians and 30% of Serbs. Councilors in the Mali Ijoš municipality can't participate in the work, to be respected, because they're simply stolen. The village of Lovčenac has taken measures and is seeking a referendum to separate itself from that municipality because it cannot suffer terror. These are the minority rights they have. Minority rights we don't have, we're compromised. Another example: the "great leader" of the national minority (which I do not condemn, because citizens are correct, but are not their leaders who do so), Deputy Prime Minister - a while ago all local media in Subotica announced that one porter was fired just because he did not speak to him in Hungarian because he did not know. These are the rights, and that's why they need to be given more rights than we do. That's how we live in Vojvodina, in those nine municipalities, and you from Serbia don't know it. You know. You know something else, 70% of Serbs are in Vojvodina, and the Vojvodina Assembly is unfortunately an amazing picture: over 60% of the MPs in the Vojvodina Assembly are non-Serbs. It's also their rights that are compromised. As a member of the Socialist Party, whose head was the great man, the great hero, the Serb Slobodan Milosevic, who claimed responsibly, laugh that all civil rights in this country were equal to all, according to Europe's greatest standards. What are the additional rights they need to give them just to serve to rip up the state? Serbia's federalisation is what they want, and that's why these voices are needed, which is why these people are supposed to sit in government, in the province and everywhere. If we don't figure it out today, we'll figure it out someday. They crawl towards the finish line, but they crawl wisely.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-26-0.u26643	The word has the People's MP Ljubomir Kragovic, and then the MP Rada Bajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-26-0.u26644	Dear fellow Members of the People, we have received the Charter of Human and Minority Rights and Civil Liberties. They say that this charter is a condition for integration into the European Community and that they used the text of the international charter to create this charter. I must conclude that this charter is done in haste, dung and incomplete, so that it is insufficient to protect both the rights of national minorities and human rights, and especially the rights of the majority people in Serbia. The only right solution today would be to get this charter back to work. The term of human law is today, especially in the last ten years, a term most commonly used. It would be nice to use it as a means of improvement for all people, for all mankind, but unfortunately it is a term that serves to be used under some excuse for the alleged threat of human rights, and above all American human rights, in which they are the only honest, to conduct the globalisation of the new world order. In order to protect some allegedly endangered human rights in the former Yugoslavia, the forces of the new world order bombed 78 days and nights uninterrupted, causing us enormous human and material sacrifices. The bombing resulted in Resolution 1244 and the Kuman Agreement, the occupation of Kosovo and Metohija and the presence of 55,000 troops and KFOR police officers and UNMIK. What's the consequence? What democracy did alleged peacemakers in Kosovo and Metohija bring to us? What are human rights and civil liberties in Kosovo and Metohija today? Where are the NGOs now and why aren't they responding? Because American interests are not at risk. The execution of an unprecedented exodus of the Serbian people and of all those who are not Cypriots is not a violation of human rights and civil freedoms. The violation of human rights and civil liberties must be guaranteed only for those who are obedient, for those who want to serve the new world order and mondialist. Otherwise, this proposal has many things that are contrary to the Constitution and in which it stands, and here is an example of Article 1. - Human dignity is unhinged. Everyone has an obligation to protect him, unless it's a Serb in Kosovo and Metohija. Furthermore, Article 14: "Everyone has the right to personal freedom and security." Again, not just for Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija. The arrested person must be brought to court without delay, and no later than 48 hours, which is contrary to the existing laws, where he must be taken out of custody immediately, because only the court can determine detention. Then, some special guarantees. The law determines cases in which the interest of justice requires the defendant to receive an attorney by official duty if he is unable to pay the defendant. We had practice in Kosovo and Metohija that hundreds of innocent Serbs were accused and held for years to two and three years in prison, without any guilt, and then released. You create something similar in this charter, so that it can be done on a wider territory, not just in Kosovo and Metohija. "No one can be punished twice for the same act." There are several cases in which this member is contrary to what is happening in practice. - Religious communities. Why are religious sects not excluded that are great evil for every nation and for every state? - Right to free elections. Here you should have added attitude three, which says the 33rd member is not valid when the DOS is in power, and chaires Mrs Natasa Micic's assembly. Otherwise, we would now be in a pre-election campaign for the president of Serbia, because citizens here are denied the right to choose and be elected.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-26-0.u26645	The word has a People's MP, Rada Bajic, and the next is the folk MP Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-26-0.u26646	Dear People's MPs, just before the beginning or during the session, so to speak, we have received a charter of human and minority rights. It is very unserious that such late delivery of material cannot be discussed, in principle take or leave. We can't make any official remarks, nor can we change them. Of course, each of us can talk about these things; anyone who comes from a multinational environment can talk about the rights of national minorities, because I live among these national minorities. Indeed, as far as the rights of national minorities in this country are concerned, I don't think there was a country where there was a higher level of giving rights to national minorities. Those who have objected to us, especially in these last ten-year-olds, when it comes to national minorities, had a truly double archaic. Because of these alleged violations of national law, they committed bombings, and now we see what it means when these excessive rights are given to national minorities. We have southern Serbia. Unfortunately, from this country, perhaps even from this hall, there have been people who have called and called on the international community for violations of the human rights of national minorities, and now they are pushing for such attempts by terrorists in southern Serbia to root. When the SPS and previous authorities tried to do so in Kosovo, with all political means, then it was not political, we did not know political and we did not know how to use all political means. Today, there was a situation that anti-terrorism really had to be answered in an adequate way. This Charter of Human Rights, in addition to the fact that nothing can be done, has several provisions and members that are directly against this country and against the citizens of this country. I'll just mention some members. Let's say, Article 28. - you admit to objecting to your conscience. This is the country, as one speaker said, in the thorny area, in the area where the paths of all forces cross. In these conditions, no member of the national minority can respond, say, to the military. Isn't today supposed to be organized? Simply, if such cases, such as southern Serbia, are reported, can't people or citizens of this country be invited to defend that part of the country? I think this objection of conscience is unacceptable at this time and in these conditions. It is said that the birth of a child is recognised as citizenship. In normal terms, yes, but do you know that in the last two years, and you know for sure, over 200,000 Albanians from Albania have come to this country. How many children were born in two years? I'm sure it's $100,000. So we have another 100,000 citizens who are against this country and who are supporters of separatism. Tomorrow it'll be an army. It's simple, and this time it looks like we're completely giving up Kosovo and our country, because this kind of thing today to adopt, practically, it's cutting off a part of the territory of this country. In some members, you say the right to live, the right to the home, the right to property must be respected. What about those 150,000-200,000 people who were expelled from Kosovo, what about 50 thousand apartments and property that was usurped, taken away? How this law will come into force when these people ask to return their property and return to their hearths. You say - the right to work; the right to work is guaranteed, even the right to choose profession and work. We here pass laws that are absolutely against workers and against the right to work. We release thousands and thousands of workers through privatisation, without any social program and leave them on the streets, and here we say that the law guarantees them the right to work, social protection and even legal choice of work. - Freedom of the media. I'm absolutely in, and everyone's for freedom of the media, but what we've got in the last two years. There's no freedom of the media when it's all censorship, and it's forbidden, like, censorship. Can it happen that someone from the opposition, to the extent available to the members of the government, is on TV? Of course he can't. Earlier the opposition papers were more than the regime's sheets; they were most every day, as they say, rocked by trees and stoned to power. Today such information or such objections cannot even appear. One more thing, if we're already giving national minorities rights, do they have national minority obligations. It is essential that these national minorities respect national legislation, respect the rights of other citizens, whether majority or minority, however, respect territorial integrity and national sovereignty. We are witnessing that right on Serbia's territory are citizens who are a national minority, but in the majority part, they have committed such secession and today they want their country on Serbia's territory. That's what we gave all the rights, and the others just gave us hats and said that we don't even respect basic rights. Today we see what rights they have and how they act when their territory is threatened.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-26-0.u26647	The word has a folk letter from Gordana Pop-Lazic. The next person registered for the word is MP Dragan Todorovic. It's the last reported word. The SRS parliamentary group has ten minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-26-0.u26648	Madam Chairman, I will use ten minutes, although you have denied the possibility of my colleagues, Mr Mircic and Kesejić speaking, because they were absent from the O.R. at the moment you called them, and they were very seriously preparing for this discussion. You're obviously in a hurry. That conclusion also led me to the fact that you also made it impossible for Mr. Shandor to speak, even though I am convinced that he is not very God-knows-how he prepared for this topic. Ladies and gentlemen, if we had a constitution, we wouldn't need this charter. We have broken up the common state, instead of the constitution we have some constitutional charter, and that constitutional charter again obliges us to bring another charter, does not mean that it will be the last, on human and minority rights and civil freedoms. The name itself speaks in a way of violating human rights, because it potentifies minority rights, as if minority members are not human. There could have been a happier name for this charter. The administrative issue of constitutional matter and the seriousness of this matter was not right, and I have to point it out once again, that the MPs in the morning, or in front of the sitting, get the material to deal with it more seriously. The intention of the congregation’s majority is evident so that the debate does not last long. A parliamentary majority has been provided for the vote of the Charter and should only go beyond that, one item on the agenda less. Nevertheless, I have been able to compare all these standards in the Charter with the standards of the former SRJ Constitution, the still valid Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and to determine what has not been guaranteed so far as the civil rights of all citizens of this country or what it is that minorities did not have, and members of the majority people, i.e. the Serbian people, have had. I've come to the conclusion that 52 members of the old Constitution of the SRJ have dealt with these rights, civil rights. Now this charter has a total, I think, 57 members. I am convinced that the level of protection of citizens' rights, including citizens belonging to national minorities, has so far been very high, i.e. highest in all standards, and that all international agreements concerning these rights have been incorporated into civil rights and norms that regulated that matter in the existing constitutions, both the federal state and the Republic of Serbia. I will refer only to a few members of this charter who have particularly intrigued me. So I'm not going to repeat or comment on those standards that already exist and have been in force so far. One general remark - I have to say that language is very inaccurate and that the norms are very confusing and more like a bad translation of some foreign text than something that this commission has really done in its own head. Article 6 states: "According to the official declaration of war or emergency, if the survival of a state community or a Member State is at risk, measures are allowed to deviate from the human and minority rights guaranteed by this Charter and only in the extent necessary in the given situation." We, truth be told, have not been declared a war or emergency, but for as long as last week, Dusan Mihajlovic was on the Defence and Security Committee, you remember, if you were present or if you were able to get that information, if you looked at the record, he said that riots are expected by Albanian and Shipatarian terrorists down there, but that the MUP has no means to counter these attacks. Covic calls these same terrorists gangsters and then remains completely immaterial to this provision of the Charter of Human and Minority Rights. Article 30 speaks of freedom of the media. It is said, among other things, that Serbia-Montenegro has no censorship in the state community. However, official institutional censorships probably do not or at least do not know that there are, but there are also threats and blackmails, and as a result there are auto-censorships. Because how else do we interpret the media's position that on Sunday at the SRS rally there were between ten and fifteen thousand people, and there were over 100,000 people. There would be probably a million people, only if we invited the people to destroy the Serbian government. Article 38. - the right to shelter in the state union of Serbia-Montenegro; position 2 says anyone who is forced to move within Serbia's territory to effective protection and assistance, in accordance with Serbia-Montenegro's laws and international obligations. This provision, gentlemen, is extremely impenetrable and malice. In a single act like this, and I repeat again that this is constitutional - legal matter where citizens' general rights are spoken of, there is no need to potentiate and further isolate displaced persons, because this points to the conclusion that they are not welcome and do not have the same rights as all the other citizens of this country. Article 40. - Right to work. You forgot here, gentlemen, unemployment protection. That's what's been in the SRJ Constitution so far. Article 45. - right to health care. We forgot that everyone must have the right to health care. Article 50. - Violent assimilation of members of national minorities is forbidden. Never in the history of the Serbian people has it been recorded that the Serbian people have tried to assimilate any other people. The Serbian people have always been exposed to genocide. Today, half a million Serbs live in Serbia because they had to leave their centuries-old hearths. Article 52. - the right to preserve specialities - members of national minorities have the right to use their symbols in public places. It is not said -- along with the symbols of the state, the state community or the state of Serbia, it will likely be in the constitution of the republic or in accordance with the law, bar. That's why we're going to have that phenomenon we had in New Pazar again, winding the flag with the lilies, too, in Tutin. We will probably have and expect from Bela Tonkovic that Croatia's chess shop will soon turn in Vojvodina and Serbia. We have the right to freedom and to use our own language and to write. Bosniak language, we hear he's got it. The chairman and president of the assembly are often introducing some new speech in this parliament. The right to association, Article 53 paragraph 2: "The organisations and associations of members of national minorities are recognised to play a special role in the exercise of the rights of members of national minorities". I really don't know what this special role means, there's no explanation, and I can only assume that the intention was for collective rights to be above the individual. So much for the very provisions of this Charter, by being a member of the 57th member who poses a special danger, since he guarantees the acquired rights of national minorities. Don't forget the situation that is in Kosovo and Metohija and which the rights of Albanians and Shipari have acquired in Kosovo and Metohija; whether we will retain those rights and after one day return Kosovo and Metohija to sovereignty (unfortunately, I can't even tell the SRJ) of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-26-0.u26649	Right on the line. Before I give you my word, let me just say, since you objected that I did not comply with the Rules of Procedure, since I did not give you my word. It works equally for all MPs, means the MPs of the DOS and MPs of the opposition: if the MP is not in the hall when he is called by the chairman, he has no right to receive the word afterwards because he is in accordance with Article 89. The Rules of Procedure order how large a parliamentary group is and whether it is for or against. The main order is that someone who signed up for the word be present in the O.R. I'm not giving you an explanation. I'm giving it to all the MPs. It's a rule we've respected and we'll respect. Now you have the right to reply, since you are mentioned by Mrs. Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-26-0.u26650	Dear colleagues, of course I think it's a little different, because there says, 90 and which member, that the debate is not concluded as long as there are reported. I think the Assembly is about talking in the congregation, the two -- the three more that will talk, it won't cost us anything. I'd like to replicate a colleague who's my intention to apply, and then what I didn't say, I figured it out the way I shouldn't. I'd like to say a few sentences about this set of problems. I think that after the Law on the Rights of National Minorities, after the Framework Convention of the Council of Europe, which has been mandatory for both our country and this charter, we enter into a phase when the problem of legal normation of the rights of members of national minorities ceases. The basic question arises - how do you actually achieve what these acts guarantee? It's really a key and a real problem. If we were to go further into a phase to decentralize and regionalize this country in a healthy way, then we could bring the rights of national minorities down to a much more acceptable and much more convincing level and put it down where that problem can be realized. For me, it is somewhat incomprehensible that the circuit secretary is talking about the rights of national minorities being achieved in a maximum way, that it is written in the laws we have, but that, let's say, a copy of the birth certificate cannot be obtained even in minority language, even when the person who was born is enrolled in the book of birth in the 1970s, just in Hungarian and Hungarian spelling. For example, in the municipality of Subotica, as is the case with two female persons. Or, when you still don't have bills for electricity or minority tax forms, and we're talking about it, and especially the regional secretary, that everything is in order. So I think that all of this needs to be achieved in minority languages, and that it needs to be fought for, specifically, when we adopt these texts now. Otherwise, I think that in Article 16 instead of each of us having the right to have a better formulation in his native language in the shortest time and in the language he understands. Then, in Article 23, the amendment to the Law on Inheritance, which says there, "He who has not responded to the mobilization cannot inherit." Otherwise, I think the best formulation in article 47 that mentions the collective rights of minorities, which is what the DZVM has stood for since the beginning of its creation, which is the political subjectivity and collective rights of minorities; this is one higher degree of rights that this state is willing to recognise. And of course, I think a whole series of concrete changes should be made in article 52. This means - changing the law on education, means that there is also a need to ensure that private schools are formed, and, let's say, the Law on official use of language, etc. We will end up with this command of the legal normative phase, but we need to move towards a concrete achievement of the rights of national minorities, as it is written here.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-26-0.u26651	The word has been issued by MP Dragan Todorovic, the SPS parliamentary group, which is available for another nine minutes; this is the last reported for the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-26-0.u26652	Ladies and gentlemen, talking about human and minority rights in international frameworks is a very tangible topic, it is a very questionable subject, because in international law very often, human and minority rights are used to condition, certain blackmail, pressure on countries that need to be found in the sphere of interest of those who are today on the world stage so powerful that they can dictate respect for their conditions to all those who are weaker than them. It is a kind of confirmation of the crisis of international law. However, the world in which we live is just like that and it is truly disputable when these conditions of respect for human and minority rights at international level will be codified and respected in one general way that will oblige everything. We have many examples of this, starting from China, through their problems with respect for human and minority rights, for which they accuse them, especially in the area of Tibet, through India, through many other countries, and we have a direct example and we have felt it on our skin, because we have been accused countless times of violating human and minority rights, despite the fact that the level of human and minority rights in our country, so in SRJ and the Republic of Serbia, at the highest possible level, particularly looking at the situation that is in the countries in our immediate environment. I will remind you that some countries that are members of the European Union are even in their constitutions and do not know the concept of national minorities. Among those countries are France, and Turkey, but also Bulgaria. Therefore, a very delicate subject, which is on the agenda today, must be understood in a broader context and we must bear in mind everything we have experienced on our skin in the previous period. Namely, this text that lies before us today, in the light of the Charter of Human and Minority Rights and Civil Liberties, is just a continuation of the text that was before us a few weeks ago, the texts of the Constitutional Charter of the National Unification of Serbia-Montenegro, which is another confirmation that this is about the direct application of foreign will, not the will of the people, which neither was asked when breaking up the previous SRJ, nor was the national will decisive in the adoption of the Constitutional Charter, nor was the will of the people consulted in the adoption or putting into the legal procedure of this text. As with the adoption of the Constitutional Charter, here was the crucial will of Javier Solana; and this text that we have today before us is probably written somewhere abroad. However, this text contains one direct confirmation of the fact that it is indisputable, which is that the level of human rights in Serbia and Yugoslavia was indeed at the highest possible level, the highest possible degree. Because countless examples of this text confirm that the previous text of the Constitution, which you have annulled without consulting the people, by your will and will of those who are your mentors, confirms the fact that in our country, the level of human and minority rights has indeed been and how respected. In addition, I will remind you of what I said when I adopted or when considering the text of the Constitutional Charter. I will repeat the thought of the greatest lawyer, Valthazar Bogisic, and now, "When the coat of arms is born, the time does not correct." The more we go to the depths, the more we will fall into one legal dubiosis, which will ultimately lead to the absolute denial of all our laws and all our independence in the area of laws and regulations. I will also remind you that the human rights corps does not only cover civil and political rights, as well as that it has been regulated by many international documents, including the most important civil and political rights pacts, as well as the economic and social rights pact, which was adopted in 1966 at the level of the United Nations, which took effect 10 years later, when a sufficient number of countries adopted the provisions of these pacts I will remind you of, and I must say because I have a commitment both to my and my children, in which way this international community, which has accused us so much of violating human rights, respected human rights, particularly economic and social rights, all of us over the course of 10 years of sanctions and during those 78 days of aggression on our country and bombing of Serbia-Yugoslavia. Therefore, those who are so concerned about human and minority rights need to look in the mirror and realize that the provisions on respect and respect for human rights must apply to all, otherwise they represent a dead letter on paper. In Serbia and Yugoslavia, these human rights are also respected. And this text, as I said before, is just a confirmation that these human rights were at an envious level and remained. But what I can't really accept is that there are a number of provisions in this text that give too broad authority, without any movement of the issue of obligations. In fact, if we do a little bit of legal structure and an analysis of what happens by pointing out a large number of civil freedoms and rights, and without any mention of civic obligations and responsibilities, there is also a threat to the anarchisation of society, bringing society into a state of chaos, where everyone will do what is appropriate to him, without respecting the same right of the one who lives next to him. However, we live in a time when laws are really underrespected and I think that's the basis for the problem we have to deal with, but since today this text is on the table to deal with a little bit of it. I will list only a few examples of why the SPS, whose president Milosevic is fighting for the protection of national interests both in The Hague and Serbia, will not support such a text. Well, gentlemen, in Article 35 of this text on citizenship, it is said that a citizen of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro cannot be deprived of citizenship or extradited outside its territory except in accordance with the international obligations of the state community. I want to let you know that at the moment when the United States agrees to such a provision as will concern their citizens, when the United States accepts the obligation to accept the jurisdiction of the permanent Roman international criminal tribunal, then we can talk about equal arches for all and respect for civil and human rights at international level. Such a provision on citizenship, that our citizens can be extradited to anyone, in accordance with the international obligations of the state community, tells us that we are under a kind of protectorate that you do so. Also, there are countless bad provisions: about the possibility of establishing marriage among members of the same sex, about the excessive rights of minority communities that can also be at the expense of the country in which they live by highlighting their national symbols and markings without emphasising national symbols and markings,... (President: I warn you of overstepping allowed time. ) I have really many good friends amongst the members of national minorities, especially among members of the Bulgarian national minority, Roma, Hungarian and even Albanian, and I can't help but look back at the fact that I'm growing up with the appetites of neighbouring countries, even territorial appetites, is just allowing them to implement one of these texts. We have to ask ourselves, is our country able to, without respect for the principle of reciprocity, give some kind of over the rights of national minorities at a time when some of these countries... (President: I warn you of an excessive amount of time. ) Therefore, the SPS will not vote for this text. Thank you for your attention and patience.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-26-0.u26653	Since the lists are no longer registered, I ask if the Presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups who have not used this right want to do so. No, I don't. ) Does the proposing representative, MP Dragan Jocic, want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-26-0.u26654	Dear gentlemen and Madam MPs, I must say that today's debate has convinced me that we have done a good job regarding this Charter of Human and Minority Rights. It's just that this is something that has to be like this, it's not more or less than it's ever been. As for the relationship between the Constitutional Charter, large and small, and what will be in some legal procedure and the law-making process, there will be far less madness than it has ever been between the SRJ Constitution and the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. What was ten years ago was one full legal galatia and we're trying to fix it now. With this charter of human and minority rights, we're on our way. It seems to me that most of the debaters who have spoken here have ignored the fact that this isn't the law, that part of the Constitution can't be all norm and can't be precise, to all the legal minutes to be normalized, but certain frameworks that we ourselves have brought can be established. And I have to remind you of one federal law on human and minority rights, which was brought by consensus to both councils last year, which was also voted by the SPS in the Federal Assembly. It's just that one part of that law is completely incorporated here and it's a very liberal law. Some remarks have been made, and at the same time the Constitution of the SRJ has been praised, although much of what is in this Constitutional Charter is found in the previous Constitution, from marriage to other norms that simply regulate matter in a certain way. This is where religious communities were also talked about, that this constitutional charter as a religious community was introduced into a small door by sects. However, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia also mentions religious communities as a constitutional category and mentions marriage in the same scope. Nothing is kinky here, which is not in the previous Constitution in the same way or in a similar way regulated. Therefore, this constitutional charter is good. He takes a lot of rights. It's up to us what state policy we're going to run. Laws have been given to the past constitution, so today we have 60,000 Albanians in Pristina. It means it's not the norm, it's the wisdom of running state policy. I suggest that this constitutional charter be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-26-0.u26655	Thank you. You have no right to a replica. The MP only commended you that your MPs in the Federal Assembly voted in favour of the National Minorities Act. You have no right to a replica. (National MP Zarko Obradovic advertises the violation of the Rules of Procedure. Injury of the Rules of Procedure? Don't use it as a right to replication. Here you go, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-26-0.u26656	Dear fellow Members of the People's Parliament, counterpart Dragan Jocic is right, the SPS MPs supported the bill on the rights and freedoms of minority members in the federal parliament, and gave more amendments to which they improved...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-26-0.u26657	You didn't get the right to a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-26-0.u26658	... The content of that law. The wrong interpretation of my colleague Dragan Jocic is that today we said that not all the provisions of this law that regulate...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-26-0.u26659	Don't interpret whether or not...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-26-0.u26660	... That is why we consider it to be the greatest lack of this provision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-26-0.u26661	People's MP, I have to give you a heads-up since you haven't called on a member of the Rules of Procedure who's been injured, nor have you... And you have misused the right to advertise the Rules of Procedure to use the right to reply. I'm finishing the search. As I suggested in the morning session, today is the day for the vote, so we will join the vote. Since we've done a search of the text of the Charter of Human and Minority Rights and Civil Liberties, we're moving on to a decision. I put to the vote the text of the Charter of Human and Minority Rights and Civil Liberties, with a correction. For 155, against 35, the abstentions, did not vote 10, out of the 200 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly adopted most of the votes the text of the Charter of Human and Minority Rights and Civil Liberties. Since we have conducted our examination and conclusion on this agenda, I hereby conclude the session of the 7th Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly. (The session ends at 16.55 p.m. )
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-26-0.u26662	THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA National Assembly OF THE STENOGRAPHICAL TEXT SIXTH EXCELLENT SESSION 26th February 2003 (First Day of Work) (The session began at 16.55 p.m. The chairman of Natasa Micic, president of the National Assembly. )
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-26-0.u26663	I am opening a session of the Sixth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2003. Since we just voted, and based on an electronic copy, the session is attended by 185 MPs. I would like to inform you that they are prevented from attending the following MPs: Radmilo Misovic, Zaharija Trnavčević, Velimir Simonović, Zoran R. Angelkovic, Slobodan Pavlovic, Zivanko Radovanchev, Juhas Atila, Petar Misic and Miroslav Markicevic. I would like to inform the National Assembly that they have been invited to attend the sittings of the President, Vice-Presidents, Ministers and Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the Secretary of the Republic of the Legislative Secretariat. Also, according to members 83 and 84. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I would like to inform you that I invited representatives of the Centre for Free Elections and Democracy, the National Movement "Resist", the National Democratic Institute, the Association of University Teachers and Teachers of Serbia -- the Kolubara Section and the USAID to this session. I welcome the guests present. I figure we have a quorum and we can keep working. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with a call from the Sixth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2003, which was convened at the request of a group of 104 MPs, pursuant to Article 79, paragraph 3. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 162. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia have been submitted to you for the maintenance of the Sixth Extraordinary Session with the established agenda contained in that request. In accordance with Article 80(2), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I would like to inform you that I have convened this session within a period of seven days because of very important issues which are being regulated by the laws of the established agenda of this session and the need for the National Assembly to adopt them as soon as possible. As you could see, for the Sixth Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the following Dn e n i d: 1. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Privatisation, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and 2. The proposal for a law on granting counterguarantee to the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro as a guarantee to the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development under the loan of the town of Kragujevac, the town of Nis and the town of Novi Sad, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. We move to the 1st point of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of the Law on Privatization (Privacation) You have adopted the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Privatization. You received amendments submitted on the bill by the MPs: Srđa Popović, Vojislav Janković, Slobodan Radulović, Stevan Kesejić, Bozidar Vučurović, Gordana Pop-Lazić, Petar Jojić, Natasa Jovanovic, Aleksandar Vučić, Veroljub Arsić, Miroljub Veljković, Milorad Mirčić, Radić Jokovic, Zlata Djerić, Branislav Kovačević; joint MPs Jovan Todorovic, Marko Ćulibrk, Dragan Jovanovic, Golub Rajić, Rade Bajić, Momir Radojić, Đura Lazić, Živanko Radovančević, Slobodan Pavlović, Miomir R. Angelković and Joca Arsić; joint MPs Dragan Marković, Petar Petrović, Miloš Petrović, Miloštić, Miloštović and Mira Šajić Šamić, Miračić, Mirović, Miračić and Mirović. The amendments that will be submitted until the start of the search for the bill will be sent to you afterwards. You have received the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Serbia on the amendments. You have received reports from the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with abroad, the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee. On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 4. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Legislative Committee rejected as incomplete amendments to Articles 43 and 49 submitted by MP Zlata Djeric, and these amendments, based on the 5th position of the same member, cannot be discussed at the meeting of the National Assembly. At the meeting of the Committee on Development and Economic Relations abroad, the Committee members Miodrag Stamenković, Slobodan Tomovic and Branimir Trajkovic were singled out. Members of the Committee Slavoljub Matic, Miodrag Stamenković and Milos Todorovic took the opinion at the session of the Finance Committee. Members of the Committee, Petar Cvetkovic, Slobodan Adzic and Djordje Mamula, gave their opinion at the session of the Legislative Committee. In accordance with Article 136(1) of the Treaty, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a search in principle. I would like the parliamentary groups, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, to submit their application for a word with the order of Members of Parliament. I ask if the word "proposer," "minister" and "privitation," Mr. Aleksandar Vlahovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-26-0.u26664	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the People, the Honorable Madam Chairman, a year and a half ago in this house was passed a Privatisation Act, which, I will remind you, was then voted by a vast majority in parliament. Meanwhile, the Privatisation Act has been effectively implemented over the past period and I will try to give you very brief information on what we have done so far, the Ministry of Economy and Privatisation, the Privatisation Agency, although the regular committees of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia receive complete reports on the course of privatisation, all signed contracts. So, a year and a half ago, you made a truly historic decision to put privatisation in a completely different way, which should ensure that privatisation is used as a strategy for restructuring the Serbian economy. As you know, at that time we said that privatisation is one of the strategies, and all together will contribute to ultimately getting an efficient economic structure, an efficient economy, a competitive economy that will be able to join world economic flows. I will also remind you that, after a decade behind in the implementation of the privatisation programme, after a more or less dishonest approach to the privatisation process, one shift towards the sale of capital and that majority capital, a shift in the direction of treating privatisation as a way to collect investments, as a way of raising the quality of corporate governance, has also definitely confirmed a solution in this parliament to build a market economy. In the past ten years, more precisely since the end of 1989, when the first privatisation law, which was then otherwise called, was passed by 2000, had a very modest jump in the privatisation process. More specifically, only 60 businesses in Serbia's economy have been privatised to date on the basis of previous privatisation models; privatised means the privatised 100% amount of ownership, paid and the last war in line with previous privatisation laws. Since mid-2001, 470 companies have been privatised in Serbia, in a manner of public transparent auctions, public transparent tender procedures; public, even so much so that a television station regularly transfers public auctions according to promises made by the ministry at the time of the adoption of the Privatisation Act. Last year alone, a total of 330m euros of new investments entered the country through privatisation, and total privatisation revenues were twice as high as planned last year alone. Thanks to privatisation in 2002, foreign investors who appeared as buyers, strategic partners for our businesses, invested 240m euros in the Serbian economy. Someone's going to say it's small, someone's going to say it's a modest number. I will remind you that countries, and these successful countries in transition at the very beginning in the first and second year of transition, had far more modest results in privatisation. Hungary in the first year of transition, and we are treating 2002 as a privatisation aspect, as the first year of transition, had only $11 million in privatisation revenue and something below $100m of direct investment that went through the privatisation process. I will remind you once again, 330m euros in investment through privatisation entered the country in 2002 and a far higher number of privatisation revenues, with that realised amount of privatisation revenue being around 300m euros. Privatisation is public and transparent. Through privatisation, unlike alternative privatisation models, we know exactly who our companies are. The way the concept of privatisation is set gives us the opportunity to identify potential customers in advance, measure their level of credibility, assess offers that are collected by the agency in a competitive procedure with the help of a financial adviser and choose the most favourable variant of privatisation for our businesses. Unfortunately, there is still a pledge, even amongst the professional circles, but I must admit that these professional circles are in a large minority, for an alternative model of voucher privatisation, which, on the contrary, gives us a huge risk that the concentration of majority ownership is carried out without knowing who is involved in the concentration of actions, what is our ownership structure tomorrow after the privatisation process is completed. Of course, when we agreed on the Privatisation Act, we tried to install all the positive and negative experiences that other countries are in transition, and above all, a successful country in transition, we had during the implementation of this very important and very responsible process. At that time, we said that during the privatisation process we would certainly have some of our own experiences, as well as that at some point the critical mass of our own experiences would initiate this ministry to propose amendments and additions to the Privatisation Act. Otherwise, by the way, even successful countries in transition changed the original text of the privatisation law on average between 15 and 20 times, given that the privatisation model, as it is, yields very effective results. Our intention is not, after the adoption of this text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Privatisation, to change future rules of privatisation. Our own experiences have shown that there are about four groups of proposed members of this law, which should be incorporated into the original legal text. First, a group that refers to simple technical changes because some new circumstances have arisen in the meantime, which, among other things, represent an imperative for harmonising the legal text. It is known that we were the rights of employees in 2001 in German stamps. Meanwhile, the German mark has disappeared as a currency and the official currency is the euro. Even so, it is necessary to amend the text of the Privatisation Act in that part. The second group refers to the changes that are the result of our, for the time being, very successful, co-operation with representative trade unions, and we in the ministry absolutely agreed on the issue, where a warning was made that it is necessary to consider the purpose of the existence of a stimulating scheme in auction privatisation. I'll remind you once again, our intention with the stimulant that was installed in auction privatisation was that as many privatisation entities directly and independently launch the privatisation process, which means that the prerogative is not used by the Ministry, and, of course, the potential buyer can start the privatisation process at any moment. We already have 1,800 companies in the privatisation process today. We do not think it is necessary to continue to maintain a stimulating scheme and not to punish particularly employed workers in these companies who did not start the privatisation process because their management was inert, because they were suspicious of the new privatisation process, because they simply did not have the courage to start the privatisation process earlier. We propose to abolish the stimulating scheme and propose that future employees of small and medium-sized enterprises, which will be privatised through auction privatisation, be free of charge to share 30% of the shares. The third group of changes refers to a different treatment, a different distribution of realised revenues from privatisation. As you know, we have proposed in the original text that the revenues from privatisation go dominantly to the budget of the Republic of Serbia and that the purposes previously provided for by the Privatisation Act are financed. At the very beginning of the transition in order to preserve itself, maintain the budgetary balance, which is the basis for macroeconomic balance, it was quite justified to focus most of the privatisation revenue on the Republic of Serbia's budget and to be used to maintain macroeconomic balance. Today, when we can freely say that a stable macroeconomic environment is provided, and not only is it provided within a short period, but it is maintained within a long time, today there is absolutely a need to redistribute revenues from privatisation. For this reason, we propose that 50% of the funds achieved from privatisation be directed towards the development of the economy, for the development of infrastructure in the Republic of Serbia, by proposing that 50% of the revenues realised by privatisation of enterprises from the territory of the AP Vojvodina are just directed towards the development of the economy and infrastructure of the AP Vojvodina. Consequently, 50% of the total revenues achieved in the territory of the Republic of Serbia will be directed precisely for this purpose. Other provisions relating to the distribution of privatisation income remain the same, by abolishing an earlier provision that said that territorial autonomy towards the seat of the privatisation entity has the right to 5% of the income, as the percentage has, meanwhile, been increased multiplely by this proposed legal text. The fourth group of changes refers to those members of the law which essentially means technical simplification of the privatisation process. This technical simplification is covered by the largest number of amendments, i.e. by the members of the law that has been given to you today for consideration. I'll give you just a few. First, we define who the buyer is, who can't be a buyer of a social enterprise, or a privatization entity, so we say that the parent company can't be a buyer of a dependent company and vice versa; that a domestic or foreign natural or legal person who has obligations to a privatization entity cannot appear as a potential buyer. Don't worry, we haven't had a situation so far that any buyer had obligations to the privatization entity, but we had indications about the possibility of having customers who have obligations. Of course, such processes have not been realised and we want to sanction them in this way legally. The next group of members is closer to determining the way to access the privatisation of large state systems, non-economic activities, privatisation in sport, and thus by introducing two members of this law we directly allow the specific laws to define a different percentage of the capital offered for sale and also the specific laws define a relatively different percentage of the capital that will be the subject of free distribution. That, ladies and gentlemen, is quite justified, given that tomorrow, after the implementation of the restructuring programme, for example. Serbia's electricity industry will not be 70% of the capital (and not the whole system) being the subject of privatisation, but some parts of the system will be permanently owned in one relatively long period of time, in order to preserve the stability of the system; other parts of the system will not be privatised at 70% of the capital, but in another proportion. This also means that the ratio, i.e. the portion of capital offered for the free distribution of workers in these companies, must be defined by a special law that treats this particular activity. The same applies to non-economic activity, as well as to privatisation in sport. I expect that the sport law will give the basic size of the capital that should be covered by the privatisation process. The following is something relating to privatisation, i.e. those enterprises that are privatised according to all previous privatisation models, except for the 1997 model. We have no more than 20 cases of companies that are mostly privatized under the 1989 law, which did not benefit from the 1997 benefits of the law. Such companies, employees of such companies, continue to have the possibility that 30% of the remaining social capital is free of charge. However, it is unrealistic to expect that the vanbersan auction will provide adequate competition for 20 or 22%. It is preferable to send all the capital to the action fund, sell 70% of the remaining amount via the stock market through the offer of individual portions or by organising an initial public offering, which will say: a permanent advance of stock on the stock market, and then a free share of the remaining 30%. That is why we foresee such a solution for such a small number of enterprises. The next group of changes also refers to the alignment of the stockholder's book with the provisional register. As you know, the 1997 law introduced labour action to a large door, like all previous legal documents. However, although it was an obligation, no central securities register of value was ever established. Only by adopting this law on privatisation, the Act on the Action Fund, have we joined a temporary organisation, I hope very soon and central register, since the adoption of the Constitutional Charter gives the possibility for the region to be at a republican level. I can inform you that more than 600 companies have reported their ownership structure, their stockholder books and recorded it in the provisional register. But we still have a number of companies that are avoiding reporting ownership structure, fearing that there will be a cancellation of previous processes because they have possibly participated in some legally unauthorized activities. In this way, we define a deadline within which these companies must declare their ownership structure and in which, unless they report ownership structure, they will bear not only sanctions on the prohibition of trade in those actions, but also some of the other sanctions provided for in this law. The next group of changes is about punishing exceptions. Ladies and gentlemen, in our deep understanding, the laws are written to arrange a single area, sanction a single area, and ultimately sanction those who act against the spirit and intensity that the legislator wanted to have. In the process of privatisation so far, we have noticed that there are exceptions to the privatisation obstruction in such a way as to increase the profits multiplely from the moment of the privatisation process. This increase in earnings absolutely does not have any economic justification. It is that employers are very happy to agree to sign such increased earnings and thus prepared collective agreements. Most often, as the practice has shown, the effect of such activities is a failed privatisation. After privatisation is declared unsuccessful, collective agreements change and profits return to the original level. It's nothing but obstruction of the privatisation process. This obstruction doesn't make employees of the company, it comes directly from the management of social enterprises. I totally understand them, but, of course, I don't want that kind of activity to remain unsanctioned. It is perfectly understandable that one part of the management of social enterprises wants to be permanently left without any ownership control, because only without ownership control are they bosses in their home, only without ownership control are those little gods in social enterprises and can make their own decisions, without the danger that anyone asks them what the results of the business are, why such decisions have been made etc. Hence, it is the urgency that privatisation never occurs quite understandable, but unacceptable from the aspect of this ministry of economy and privatisation. This means that in the future, wherever the privatisation process is under way, the agency will give consent to an increase in earnings, with the agency absolutely no intention of preventing an increase in profits, if it is the result of an increase in the economic activity of the company and an increase in profitability, nor of preventing a correction in line with the rise in prices to a small extent, but simply wants to set a barrier to potential obstruction of privatisation. In the end, it was proposed that the future signatories of the contract be two sides: the Privatisation Agency and the buyer. Many have interpreted it as a tendency by the Ministry of Economy and Privatisation to eliminate the subject of privatisation, which is not true. We distinguish the privatisation process from the very act of signing the contract. The act of signing the contract is an act of exchange of mutual rights and mutual responsibility between the party signatories of the contract. The buyer has very clear rights and very clear obligations. The right is to provide him with a transfer of the ownership title, to give him a guarantee of the truthfulness of the data contained in the tender documentation or in the auction privatisation programme. Its obligation is to treat everything according to an accepted and guaranteed investment and social programme. So it is an obligation to invest, to meet the requirements and provisions of the social programme, to maintain continuity. Otherwise, the Agency shall have the right to terminate the contract and that all the money obtained from the privatisation revenue is permanently taken over without the return of that buyer; it shall have the right to activate guarantees, first-class banking guarantees, unless the buyer fulfils the obligations relating to the social investment programme; it shall have the right to double-annually control the performance of the buyer's obligations; and, having the obligation to ensure the transfer of the ownership title, it shall have the obligation to guarantee the truthfulness of the data, etc. So far, we have failed to identify any right or obligation of a privatization entity that he assumes by means of an act of signing a contract. I'd ask you to tell me if it exists. There is no right or obligation, because the subject of privatisation, precisely because of an unidentified property, can't guarantee it, because there's nothing to guarantee. On the other hand, the privatisation entity shall exercise its rights through the preparation of a social programme agreed by the trade union within the company, the management of enterprises, so management and, on the other hand, the Agency. So it's an act of signing a contract, an act of mutual exchange of rights and obligations. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, what about the privatisation process? It is more than desirable for those who carry out the privatisation process that the privatisation entity participates actively in the privatisation process. That's what's happening. How, in what way? Through the preparation of the privatisation programme in auction privatisation, through the preparation of tender documentation in the part of investment and social requirements, through the decision of the representatives of the privatisation entity in the tender commission. I note, not one, but two -- one representative of the privatisation entity, which is normally the director of the company, and another representative of the representative trade unions from the privatisation entity. Gentlemen, experience has shown that of the five members of the tender commission are four from the company (in one way or another from the company), one from the privatisation entity, one from the worker, one from the local self-government, if Vojvodina is a representative of the autonomous province, if it is central Serbia or another from the local self-government or the county principle. Only one, to insist on the DSS parliamentary group, which is the president, comes from the ranks of members of the government. Only the president of the tender commission is the Prime Minister. Then who decides to accept the offer? A privatization entity through its representatives in the tender commission. Therefore, neither is it so far, nor will the Ministry, the agencies and all those responsible for implementing the privatisation process eliminate the privatisation entity, on the contrary, will participate even more in the privatisation process, and above all gathered around its trade union organisations. As you know, we have very good co-operation with all three representative unions and so far there has never been a single problem with the appointment of members of the tender committee. Therefore, this is the essence of the members who should further contribute to the technical simplification of this process. So far, we've had about 470 privatized companies. Our intention is to privatise thousands of small and medium-sized enterprises this year through the auction privatisation process and up to 50 large systems of tender privatisation. Of the 470 companies mentioned, 22 large enterprises are privatised in the tender privatisation. Many suspected that the privatisation process was slow, although there were also those who said it was fast. Gentlemen, it's not a privatisation process slow. The privatisation process is not one linear flat function where each year the same number of enterprises is privatised, but divided into two phases. Phase one - building strong institutions, so privatisation can be implemented consistently respecting transparency, the public, the equality of all customers and respecting the rule that the market determines the value of capital. We did the job in the second half of 2001 and in the first half of 2002. The second stage is the mature privatisation phase in which the number of privatised enterprises is increasing rapidly, as well as the companies in the process. In this year alone, there are a thousand privatised companies, in the past about 300, in the following year another 1200 companies and by half of 2005, no more social capital, will be privatised in a way that guarantees the most efficient model of privatisation, which is not the opinion of the Ministry of Economy and Privatisation, although we are proud to point out that we have an efficient model of privatisation, but primarily the opinion of those who participated in the concept of privatisation models in other countries in transition. By voting for this law, please help us to really have privatisation as a strategy, as a way of restructuring the Serbian economy and building a more quality and competitive economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-26-0.u26665	I thank Mr. Secretary. Do the committees want the word? No, I don't. ( b) Do Members of Parliament wish to issue an opinion at committee meetings? Here you go. The word has the People's Messenger George Mamula. Here you go. You're not on any committee, I'm sure of it.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-26-0.u26666	Since the Charter of Human Rights was adopted half an hour ago, and more than a month ago, the Constitutional Charter, I do not think this law is in line with the documents mentioned, as it remains possible to sell hijacked property on different grounds. I believe that the privatisation of this property would have to be suspended until further notice, because soon, when it comes to human rights violations, there will be a court in Strasbourg. This should be taken into account, because most of the Charter of Human Rights has been adopted here, so it will be very interesting if it is violated in practice. Recently, one television broadcast publicly that members of the former owner's family, and now potential heirs, enter the Serbian Chamber of Commerce, interrupt the privatisation process and question what is wrong with their property. The property was sold after all. So taken away for the second time. On the other hand, this bill is not clear enough, i.e. Article 11, there is one illegality, since the company sold is not mentioned as either a legal entity in the negotiation process or in the contract conclusion process. That's why I think the companies that are the subject of privatisation should also be a foreign contractor. In that sense, the privatisations so far are controversial. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-26-0.u26667	The word is held by MP Slobodan Tomovic, who also issued an opinion at the Committee on Development and Economic Relations meeting with abroad. Then is the word of Adzic the Messenger of the people, and Miodrag Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-26-0.u26668	Dear Mrs. Micic, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the reason why I gave my opinion above all is of a principled nature, because when we first discussed this matter in this House, and then it was about amendments and additions to the Transformation Act, I voted against the proposal for that law to change. The next time we discussed the Privatisation Law proposal, which is now called Vidovdan last year, I also voted against the bill, citing some argument along the way. Last time, I apologize, thank you for your help. So if I were to vote now for something that represents amendments and additions to laws that I didn't agree with when I offered arguments from this pay phone which is why I think so, I would be one of those who say - I have an opinion, and I disagree with it. Since that is not the case, I would like to remind you briefly why I and then, when we discussed the amendment of the Law on Transformation and the Proposal for a Law on Privatisation, voted against the proposals at the time. I thought, and now I think that the Transformation Act was not necessary to change, because world practice and especially the practice of developed countries, and above all, I think of the United States, knows the example of so-called. working stockholders. That's when I said there's an association in the U.S. called E.P.P. - I'll tell you later, if anyone's interested, what that means. There are 11,500 companies under the association, eight million employees in the 11500 companies, and the capital of the 11,500 companies is $500 billion; thousands of such companies are listed on the stock exchange. That's when I wanted to say why we had to change that law, why we couldn't have some of what there was to incorporate in that proposal to change or amend that transformation law. That, of course, with the argument as it is, is not accepted at that time. There is a decision-making mechanism in this House and I don't comment on it. After that, we discussed the Privatization Act. I also said, in reference to what was before, that I could not quite agree with the premises of the privatisation law, because those solutions that are offered, in my opinion, were not more favourable for employees than the solutions contained in the old law. As evidence, the company then had the right to share 60% of the capital free of charge, and this new law that we then passed the rights of citizens outside the concrete enterprise to apply for free action in any company, as well as the rights of employees to receive free internships in their businesses, were no longer respected. I have led to the suspension of discounts in the purchase of shares, the possibility of buying shares in 72 wars, the right of farmers to the right of the championship, and the right to apply for free actions in cooperatives and agricultural enterprises. A 1% discount for each year of the RVI internship, the recapitalisation model was completely abolished, and therefore all rights based on recapitalisation, which is also now an essential observation of this current law and everything that is now thought to improve it. So, the recapitalisation, without any comment, must exist. If someone wants to buy a company, let them buy it, but not at a bargain price, but let them say it's worth so much, I'll add that much, and then I'll buy it. So these were all the things we were offering back then, the ones we stood for. These things, of course, for reasons very well known, have not passed. Since they haven't been through, and these changes and additions don't offer anything that would affect improving what we've been up against, we can't even accept it, and that's why I've singled out my opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-26-0.u26669	The word has a People's MP, Free Adzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-26-0.u26670	Dear colleagues, as a member of the Legislative Committee, I singled out my opinion when the Committee pleaded on the law in principle, for the reasons stated by my colleague George Mamula, and I would only further explain some things. So it's about amending the Privatization Act. This proposal seeks to regulate more precisely some issues that could not be resolved by the existing law. I would remind you that the Privatisation Act, when it was passed, was to be passed in addition to the denationalization law. This has not been done, and today, by implementing the Privatisation Act, we have an injustice, and the injustice consists of jeopardizing one of the fundamental human rights, which is the right to property. The Charter of Human and Minority Rights, adopted today, in the chapter - rights and freedoms, in Article 23, says: "The right to property and the right to inherit. No one can be deprived of property except in the public interest established under the law, with a fee that cannot be lower than the market." So, if we adopted this charter today, I hope we sincerely advocate the implementation of this charter. This implies not only that we respect the future right to property, but that in all those situations where the right to property is compromised, it is corrected. This is only possible by adopting a law on denationalisation, and then by harmonising the Privatisation Act. So the solution would be to amend the Privatisation Act, to pass a law on denationalisation, and then to bring the Privatisation Act into line with the denationalisation law. For these reasons, I have not voted in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-26-0.u26671	The word has been made by MP Miodrag Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-26-0.u26672	The Honorable President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, if the preparation of this amendment and the additions of the Privatisation Act had lasted a little longer, it would probably have run out of committees that would be the parent to consider it. Let me remind you, a year and a half ago, the Committee on Industry was the primary point of the Privatization Act. Meanwhile, the Privatisation Committee was formed, so since both committees are not functioning because of the known manipulation of parliamentary mandates, it was then declared the parent board for development and economic relations with abroad, which had been very serious and reasonedally discussing the law yesterday, and after a two-hour debate, rejected it in principle. Afterwards, he was declared a parent financial committee, which today very quickly, without discussion, with the elected majority, passed this law. Just so much for preparation. Otherwise, as far as the Committee on Development and Economic Relations is concerned with abroad, I can say that it has been very responsible for accessing this, because this committee is, in fact, the committee closest to European integration. Let me remind you, we cannot go to Europe with such a burden on our backs, what is the burden we've been carrying for six decades, and that's stolen property. The right to property is one of the basic human rights. With the violation of that right, we're not going to Europe. Therefore, as the predecessors have said, we have counted that from World War II to this day there are as many as 39 laws and some legal acts that have taken away property from our citizens. What a huge problem it is you see every day. Even auctions, where companies are sold, show up to famous owners, whose rights are violated. At very low prices, however, these assets are being sold out. Now with this bill of law, we are speeding up, because that is the basic objective, among other things, the privatisation process. By the end of this year, 60% of social property should be privatised, and the problem of denationalisation is being delayed for some other time. I don't agree with Mr. Minister when he says that cash compensation is the best way to resolve denationalization. Excuse me, what cash compensation and when, and from what means? Obviously, we're going to put off the problem for some other time, by selling everything out, and then putting on the agenda a question of denationalization. If there's gonna be money, I guarantee you it won't. Why? Well, the same property, first of all, is business space, I'm not talking about companies, that restitution where it can be solved differently, it's sold at auctions at very low prices. So how can you justly make up for someone's legal owner's money, if you're taking a tenth of what you're selling? Who are we going to take down to pay for it? The same will pass, so, as will local self-government, which should receive 5% of the funds from sales or privatisation. Here, just ask yourself, how many city council presidents there are in this room, if anyone has received one dinar in the previous year and a half, and a lot of it is privatized. (Glasses: Yes. It's not. I don't think that's the one. So all the funds are being poured into the budget. Our budget, ladies and gentlemen, even though we're a transition with huge problems, and I understand that, is a bag in which no matter how much you pour there's nothing left, leaks, nothing remains on the surface. So, I'm also a skeptic for those 50% of the resources that need to be transferred to the name of development. We know that the Development Fund doesn't have a single dinar, that there's no money to compensate for the loans that they made last year without talking about new funds for this year, etc. I think I've given you enough reason to understand why I singled out my opinion when voting on this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-26-0.u26673	The word is by MP Branimir Trajkovic. Excuse me, sir. Here you go, Minister. The word is made by Minister Alexander Vlahovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-26-0.u26674	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all, let me inform you that when the Privatisation Act was adopted in 2001 by the Legislative Committee, two other committees considered this law before it entered the assembly procedure. The first was the Committee on Industry, and the second was the Committee on Finance, of course, the Legislative Committee. The same procedure was repeated in the adoption of this Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law, by welcoming the decision of the National Assembly that the third Committee, the Committee on Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs, should, among other things, consider this proposal before considering the Assembly. Therefore, this initial procedure is fully respected in the same way as it was in the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Privatisation. I am saying this for the public and for the sake of truth; this was the previous procedure, and this previous procedure is fully respected when this law enters parliament. Secondly, when it comes to cash compensation to former owners, I am surprised that the MP who previously voted for a settlement on cash compensation, which was implemented in the original Privatisation Act, is now questioning the way in which former owners are compensated. I think there's a big source in that section for what's-his-name. political populistism, for demagogy, and basically none of you are ready to come out and pass on the experiences of other countries in transition -- how they treated the problem of denationalisation. You know very well, and we have explained it at least a hundred times - why financial compensation in the privatisation of the company. I repeat, for three reasons. First, because these companies in their size do not correspond to companies that were nationalised in 1945 or on any other basis taken from former owners. When something is not comparable in size, it is impossible to perform physical vomiting. Secondly, because all these companies, or most of these companies, are now in huge financial difficulties. The return of assets in physical form would result in the return of all financial problems, the transfer of all debts to former owners or their successors. Is that a way to correct historical injustice? (Glasses: Yes. ) Is the return of the Krsmanovic Brothers, for example, Paracino enterprises that have been in bankruptcy for years, which have not worked, with all debts, former owners, a solution to correct the 1945 injustice or former owners should get what they had valuablely at the time of nationalisation and at the moment of the confiscation of property? The solution offered through monetary compensation is automatically in the original text of the law accompanied by the way in which the restitution fund is formed. I will remind you, since some of you have forgotten this, 5% of the total privatisation revenue is allocated to the special payment account of the Republic of Serbia's budget in so-called. The restitution fund and that 5% today, ladies and gentlemen, is $15 million. Those $15 million are not used for any other purpose but will be used to compensate former owners. In order to enter this process, which we, once again note, first opened by the adoption of this law, the story of denationalisation and the Law on Privatisation is first mentioned, it is necessary to define the procedure; it will be defined by the Law on Restitution, because it is not just a matter of nationalisation - there is also confiscation, agrarian reform, expropriation. The Restitution Act will define the compensation procedure and, among other things, prove the right for successors of former owners, who is the one who has the right to be compensated; and, the procedure will be prescribed. I am responsibly saying that the Ministry of Finance, which is preparing the law on denationalisation, is working day and night to formulate one concept, which will not only be an empty promise of pre-election story for the sake of, but a concept that will be able to realise, a concept that determines the extent of the budgetary power of the Republic of Serbia and how much and how dynamically we can enter the monetary compensation for the other seized property. And, let me tell you right now, the building land will be physically returned because city building land and construction land is the simplest return, but the principle of monetary compensation will remain with the company, will remain with other assets that, meanwhile, have changed its owners multiple times in the trade. I have to tell you that we have a way of compensation, physical or monetary, much more complicated than in all other countries in transition that have done nothing or done very little about it. Why? Because we, gentlemen, in the '50s, handed over factories to workers, and the country to peasants and those countries themselves in 2001, 2002 and 2003 is depriving something that, in the meantime, system law came out of state hands, precisely these principles -- factory workers, country to peasants. And, let me tell you, the responsibility of a state and a government is not what it promises but what it promises to do. Certainly, the denationalisation law will provide the possibility of monetary compensation, providing a very clear procedure for monetary compensation. And, one more thing, you have these examples: when hotels that haven't changed their shape and size since 1945, the Ministry and the agencies and the facilities appear in privatisation, such businesses put out of the privatisation process. Well, that's right, why don't you admit it. There was no comment from the O.R. ) Hotel Excelsior, Hotel Astoria, Hotel Splendid, hotels for the interior of Serbia, where there are conditions for this, then Hotel Prague, are not on the privatisation list, precisely because there were demands from former owners to temporarily stop privatisation until the law on denationalisation was passed. The same thing was done with all other facilities and catering companies; so, for example, let's not worry about the former owners of the hotel "Belgrade" within the company "Morava" in Cačka, because the hotel's privatisation of the company "Morava" is not privatized. He was only given to use the company, but he's not part of the property of the company that's privatized. That's how we do it in every case, despite many criticisms, and I repeat again: it has a common note, which is one political pulsism, it's a demagogy that uses this field to embarrass a successful process. Another thing, as regards money for local self-government, gentlemen, the Ministry of Finance, more specifically the vault stands out directly for funding local self-government 5% of the collected revenues from privatisation. [[Sagar.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-26-0.u26675	Please don't throw away the minister, I'm warning you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-26-0.u26676	But let's see what the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2002 and for 2003 looks like, how much money is allocated to incentives in the economy, for subsidies in agrarian, for subsidies for public enterprises that can't start their own economic account in the current state; because, I'll remind you, in 2000, we almost didn't have electricity. This is the result of the maturity from previous public systems. Gentlemen, six and a half billion dinars are directed towards the economy in 2003. Seven and a half billion dinars are divided into a transitional fund, where the government of the Republic of Serbia is funding social programmes that exist in companies with economic and technological surpluses, so that the companies prepare for the process of restructuring and privatisation. Seven and a half billion dinars are the budget position allocated under the Ministry of Agriculture for the subsidisation of agricultural activity. How much money to subsidize public enterprises? When you add all of this together, gentlemen of the Parliament, it's more than multiple revenues from privatisation. Three hundred million euros last year is only 18 billion dinars, raise only these three positions, and that's more than 18 billion dinars. I wanted to show you in this way that, essentially, the budget is one central place where all income, and tax and privatisation revenues, should be collected, but one responsible, socially acceptable transition policy of the responsible government must be determined that restructuring of the economy implies subsidising large systems in the restructuring process. One responsible role of the government finds it necessary to raise public enterprises, restructure them, create conditions to be self-sustainable, economically profitable, and only then access privatisation. Gentlemen, the assets of companies and capital are not sold out, but in transparent, competitive procedures, customers are competing for the value of capital. If it makes you feel any better, all previous concepts of privatisation have collected about 25 million marks in ten years; so much for the sale. Last year alone, by privatising about 300 companies, 300 were sold, raised 360m euros, 300m euros immediately, and 60 on repayment, and the book value of these companies was 270m euros. Well, now you see whether that capital is sold out or it is privatised in an evenly transparent game in the most efficient way for Serbia's economy. So, I'm very sorry to have to tell you, not you, how much those who would prefer to participate in murky operations, in commercial transactions, to melt down capital, but they won't. Have them come out nicely on the line and compete with each other, take the risk of buying businesses, take responsibility for the privatisation process and show their entrepreneurial spirit. There are no privileged ones, there are no priors to obtaining privileged terms or any priority rights, as was the case in 1997, when there was no tender, sold to Telecom, as was the case with Galenika, and then after that, for years and years those who come have to correct the damage, and that's the damage done by some predecessors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-26-0.u26677	Ladies and gentlemen, this is what we've done today's work; under Article 81. Assembly meeting until 1800 hours. We'll continue tomorrow at 10.00 hours.
