ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-08-0.u27896	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the fourth session of the first regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2003. According to official records, 202 MPs attend the session. Please insert identification cards into your MPs to determine the quorum. I find that the application of the electronic system has established that we have a quorum for work and decision-making, since the sittings are attended by 202 MPs. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the following MPs: Nenad Lemajic, Branimir Trajkovic, Biaci Anton, Borisvoje Draculaovic and Slobodan Pavlovic. I am informing the National Assembly that they have been invited to attend the meetings of the President, Vice-Presidents, Ministers and Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. We're moving on to the adoption of the minutes from the previous sessions. You were presented with records of the Second and Third Sessions of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly in 2003. Since we have a quorum for decision-making, and since the review in the Management Board's office has established that none of the MPs have submitted such committee in writing any objection to the minutes of those sessions, we are moving to a decision on the records. I am voting on the minutes of the Second Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly in 2003, held on 25 and 26 March and 1 April 2003. For 150, no one with abstentions voted 60, a total of 210 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the minutes of the Second Session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly. I am voting on the minutes of the Third Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly in 2003, held on 1st and 2nd April 2003. For 134, no one with abstentions voted 78, a total of 212 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority the minutes of the Third Session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly. This session, which was delivered to you, contained a draft agenda for the session. Before setting out the agenda, in accordance with the rules of the Rules of Procedure, we need to decide on proposals for putting on the agenda acts by emergency procedure. The Commission for the Preparation of Laws on the Mode and Procedure of the Change of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia has proposed that the National Assembly put the draft law on the agenda on the way and procedure of amending the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which submitted to the National Assembly on 3 April 2003. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 117, no one, with abstentions, voted 98, a total of 215 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. The government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed that the National Assembly, by emergency procedure, put on the agenda a draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Organisation and Jurisdiction of State Authorities in countering organised crime, which submitted to the National Assembly on 4 April 2003. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 116, against one, with no abstention, did not vote 99, a total of 216 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. The government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed that the National Assembly put on the agenda a bill amending the Law on Arms and Ammunition, which submitted to the National Assembly on 4 April this year. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 118, no one with abstentions voted 98, a total of 216 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. The government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed that the National Assembly put on the agenda a bill amending the Law on the High Council of Justice, which submitted to the National Assembly on 4 April this year. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 115, no one with abstentions voted 101, a total of 216 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. The government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed that the National Assembly put on the agenda a draft law amending and supplementing the Public Prosecutor's Law, which submitted to the National Assembly on 4 April 2003. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 117, no one with abstentions voted 100 out of 217 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted this proposal by majority vote. The government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed that the National Assembly put on the agenda a bill on amendments and additions to the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia's Criminal Law, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 4 April 2003. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 116, no one with abstentions voted 100 out of 216 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted this proposal by majority vote. The government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed that the National Assembly, by emergency procedure, put on the agenda a draft law amending and supplementing the Criminal Law of the Republic of Serbia, which submitted to the National Assembly on 4 April 2003. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 115, no one with abstentions voted 100 out of 215 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted this proposal by majority vote. The government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed that the National Assembly put the proposal for a public information law, which submitted to the National Assembly on 3 April 2003, on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For seven, against 144, two abstentions, were not voted 64, out of 217 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed that the National Assembly put the draft law on republican administrative fees, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 4 April 2003, on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For five, against 107, two abstentions, 105 did not vote, out of 219 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed that the National Assembly put on the agenda a draft law amending and supplementing the Financial transaction Tax Act, which submitted to the National Assembly on 4 April 2003. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For six, against 105, the abstentions were not voted 108, out of a total of 219 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed that the National Assembly, by emergency procedure, put on the agenda a draft law amending and supplementing the Company Tax Act, which submitted to the National Assembly on 4 April 2003. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 11, v 104, a abstentioned one, did not vote 102, out of a total of 218 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed that the National Assembly put the draft Act amending the Excise Law, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 4 April 2003, on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For nine, against 111, three abstentions, 95 did not vote, out of 218 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MPs Novica Djuraskovic, Bojan Kostres, Zoran Boskovic, Branislav Grubački, Branislav Pomorički and Višnja Nežić suggested that the National Assembly put on the agenda a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Public Procurement, which they submitted to the National Assembly on 3 April 2003. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 14, against 103 abstentions, he did not vote 101, out of 218 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Ivan Andric, with a group of MPs, suggested that the National Assembly, by emergency procedure, put on the agenda a proposal for a list of candidates of the National Assembly for the selection of one member of the Council of the Republic Broadcasting Agency and a selection of members of the Council of the Republic Broadcasting Agency from a list submitted by authorised proposings. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 146, against two, abstentions, he did not vote 71, out of a total of 219 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. National MP Tomislav Nikolic, president of the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group, suggested putting the National Assembly on the agenda of the proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances related to the murder of Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic, who submitted to the National Assembly on 1 April 2003. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 91, against 113 abstentions, 15 of the 219 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Siniša Mitrovic, based on Article 136. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that a joint principle search be carried out on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Organisation and Jurisdiction of State Authorities in the Facilitation of Organized Crime, Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Arms and Munitions, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Prosecutory, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Law of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Criminal Law of the Republic of Serbia (paragraphs 2 to 7 of the proposed agenda). Does the MP Sinisa Mitrovica want a word? He doesn't want to. I put this proposal to the vote. For 117, against 99, the abstentions, were not voted by three, of a total of 219 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the proposal of the MP Sinisha Mitrovica. In accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, all points adopted by an emergency procedure shall be included in the agenda of the meetings in accordance with their proposal, i.e. acceptance, and shall be submitted by the relevant committees, or by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, if they have not already done so, to their reports or opinions during the course of the session. Since we have come to the conclusion of the emergency motions, I would like to ask the MPs to come forward on the agenda of the session in general. I'm putting on a vote on the draft agenda in general. For 118, against 49, the abstentions, did not vote 51, out of 218 MPs. I declare that the National Assembly has established the agenda of the Fourth Session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly. Dn e v n i r e d: 1. Proposal for a law on the way and procedure of amending the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the Commission for the preparation of the law on the way and procedure of amending the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, 2. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Organisation and Jurisdiction of State Authorities in countering organised crime, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, 3. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Weapons and Ammunition, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, 4. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the High Council of Justice, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, 5. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Prosecutors, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, 6. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Law of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, 7. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Law of the Republic of Serbia, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, 8. Proposals for termination of office, selection, appointment and resolution of judicial office holders, 9. Proposal for a list of candidates for the selection of one member of the Council of the Republic Broadcasting Agency and a selection of members of the Council of the Republic Broadcasting Agency from the list submitted by authorised proposings. We move to the 1st point of the agenda: the proposal of the Law on the way and procedure of change of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia (the principles) has been adopted by the draft law, with the conclusions submitted by the Commission for the preparation of the law on the way and procedure of the change of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. You have received a report from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, with conclusions and a report from the Legislative Committee. The Constitutional Affairs Committee has proposed that the National Assembly adopt the law in the proposed text, without submitting amendments, by a majority vote of the total number of MPs. The People's Messenger Stevan Lilić has been appointed rapporteur to the Committee. Does the MP want a word? He wants to. )
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-08-0.u27897	It is my honor and pleasure to present on behalf of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs to the National Assembly a report on the draft law on the way and procedure for the adoption of a new Serbian Constitution. The issues discussed under the Constitutional Committee are related, among other things, to the process of changing the Constitution of Serbia, in this sense that the current Reviszione clauses of the Constitution are such that they do not respond and provide no possibility of changing the Constitution, given the current situation and circumstances. That is why the National Assembly has made a decision on the basis of which a special commission is educated to establish a bill on the way and procedure of adopting Serbia's constitution. The commission had a very short deadline and submitted within that deadline to the National Assembly, or constitutional committee, a bill on the way and procedure of changing Serbia's Constitution. Along with the law, which will be a special report, the president of the commission will submit a detailed report on the content of this law. They've also submitted proposals for conclusions. The proposal for a conclusion was submitted because the procedure for amending the Constitution had to run on a specific basis, not according to which it was based and which was established in the revision clauses of Articles 132 to 134. The Constitution of Serbia. The Constitutional Affairs Committee has adopted the text of the law, it has also accepted the conclusions, practically in general, that the draft law be adopted in the integrated text, without submitting amendments. Two things have been achieved this way. Firstly, the effectiveness of working on this important issue, on the other hand, has been ensured by the basic democratic principle that the law can be declared for or against. The Constitutional Committee also accepted a proposal concerning the issue of determining the composition of the commission, i.e. setting out the composition of the commission in case a number of commission members are not set. The most important issue is about accepting the constitutional declaration. The Commission, because the matter itself is related to the constitutional declaration of such a nature that it cannot form an integral part of the law, suggested that the National Assembly adopt a constitutional declaration, i.e. that the Constitutional Commission draw up a constitutional declaration. Although there have been differing opinions in this matter in the commission itself, it cares about the view that, due to the political importance of joining a new constitution, this constitutional declaration would not only be one kind of political consensus, but also a certain legal basis, given that Serbia-Montenegro's Constitutional Charter in Article 65 as an imperative requires the adoption of a new constitution of Serbia. For this reason, on behalf of the Committee, I propose to the National Assembly to adopt the bill on the way and procedure of making a new constitution of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-08-0.u27898	Mr Vladan Batic, the minister of justice, called for the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-08-0.u27899	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, honored guests, just a few words on behalf of the Commission for the preparation of the law on the way and procedure of changing the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. I would like to express my satisfaction that the commission was very efficient, responsible, constructive and cooperative, and all the members of the commission, within the time period provided for by the decision, which within a few days was interrupted because of the tragic events and the murder of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, made the proposed text of the law, noting that the commission, in the light of the fact that its actual composition was 21 members, by a two-thirds majority, with 14 votes in favour and, as I say, by the single voice of the Deputy Prime Minister Mr. Isaac, who was not present, who was the 15th vote, adopted the draft of this law. Mr Lilic, as rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, explained the reasons why the Commission has also proposed certain conclusions, which the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has adopted. I just want to say that the law has several chapters, first of all a general provision that determines what is regulated by this law, then a provision concerning how education and the work of the future constitutional commission, a provision on public debate, on how to adopt the constitution and, finally, on the constitutional law for the implementation of the constitution. I must say that all the deadlines mentioned in the text of the bill are in line with the obligation arising from the Constitutional Charter, with a deadline of six months and with the date of 4 August, as the date on which the constitution is to be found for adoption in the Republic Parliament. Of course, it does not depend on the will of the members of the Commission to prepare the law, but we have adhered to those deadlines. I would draw attention to the provision of Article 4 which regulates the composition of the future constitutional commission, with a desire for the constitutional commission in parliament itself to be defined in terms of its real composition, because there is a concern that some parliamentary groups or political parties will not delegate their representatives to the constitutional commission, and that they may not do so either, the assembly of the AP of Kosovo and Metohija. There was, of course, controversy, and it will likely be in parliament itself, about the required majority to adopt the constitution. I repeat, the two-thirds position of the Commission for Law Preparation was that it was an absolute majority of 126 MPs, but that this constitution should be confirmed by citizens, which would get absolutely full legitimacy, because the will of the people is what is crucial in these circumstances. I would like to say that this solution is practically clearly manifested by the desire for the constitution to be brought in, rather than being the subject of marathon political debates and party or party competitions. So, if the referendum, which is to be implemented according to the highest European standards, the constitution that would previously adopt the Assembly, and by an absolute majority it gets citizens' support, it will have full legitimacy. On behalf of the Commission, I would once again like to thank all the members of the Commission for their very correct and constructive work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-08-0.u27900	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-08-0.u27901	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today's session has been launched with an hour and a half delay; on the tables here in the Assembly, we have found a report from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, in which point 2 is set out. The Committee proposes that, in accordance with the conclusions adopted and submitted by the Commission on the preparation of the law on the way and procedure of amending the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly adopt the law in the proposed text, means by system - take or leave, without making amendments, and most of the votes of the total number of MPs. I'm referring to article 75. Rules of Procedure, and I'll read you article 75. The Rules of Procedure from which you will see that the Committee does not have this authority, that we are not talking about every decision, every law being discussed here in the National Assembly of the Sea, according to our Rules of Procedure, being considered in principle and in particular. Let me remind you that when the National Assembly decided to form this committee, it did not give the commission the authority to prepare this act on our behalf, without us being able to intervene in this act afterwards. It is absolutely against any parliamentary democracy without talking about any of our internal acts on the basis of which we should be working. This way we can work under every law, and I wouldn't be surprised if tomorrow there was some law on the agenda and again someone on the board, unfortunately, a professor of the university, came out and said, I call on Article 75, the board reached a conclusion and we feel that this law should not be considered in particular, but only in principle. It doesn't lead to anything good. We are going towards the adoption of the highest legal act, the constitution, and already at the beginning we do not allow MPs here to declare some basics, to say procedural things, because we are still at the stage of procedural acts. So what's it gonna look like when we get here to talk about the final text of the constitution? Since I have reported to advertise the breach of the Rules of Procedure, so that the president will not later remind me, I will read this Article 75: "After the search has been completed, the Committee shall submit a report to the National Assembly containing the opinion and proposals of the Committee." This does not in any way refer to whether an act is considered only in principle or can and should be considered in particular, as it simply implies. That's not a question. The Committee shall determine the rapporteur who, where appropriate, shall explain the committee’s report at the meeting of the National Assembly. We, gentlemen, have written amendments to this proposal for a decision, considering that it is in the spirit of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and you may not accept them, because I have already seen from the reasons given by the motion for a decision that is your intention, but your explanation is absolutely unsatisfactory, because protecting democratic principles, respecting the opposite opinion, is not in this way accepted...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-08-0.u27902	I'm warning you of time overruns, twice.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-08-0.u27903	... Because the law can be voted against does not mean that we have respected all the principles of parliamentary democracy. But you can decide whatever you want, as long as you have that artificially created majority of an illegal assembly that will, in turn, bring about a well-octrossed constitution.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-08-0.u27904	The MP pointed out that a violation of article 75 was committed. Rules of Procedure; I believe that there is no breach of the Rules of Procedure, because it clearly states that the Committee shall submit a report to the National Assembly containing the opinion and proposals of the Committee. In his report, the Committee proposed that this bill be adopted in a fixed text, without amendments, and that would be stated by the National Assembly, I think about the proposal. According to the Rules of Procedure? I'm putting it to a vote... MP Zarko Obradovic, and I ask you if you are reporting to the Rules of Procedure, here is MP Zarko Obradović, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-08-0.u27905	There is no reason to be impatient and for such a reaction, because I wanted to point out, on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, the breach of the Rules of Procedure concerning this position of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and to repeat one position that my colleague Zoran Angelkovic and I also pointed out at the Commission's sitting itself, and so we did later on the Commission. Here, I have looked at the detailed provisions of the Rules of Procedure, both on the state of emergency and on amendments, from Articles 141 to 145, provisions concerning the work of the Constitutional Affairs Committee, and there is no record of any amendment being made to one draft law. I see no reason, no fear, for a great story, because the law has 12 members and can't be god knows how many amendments; in the end, it is seen according to the number of amendments proposed. There is, simply, business and any other obligation of the National Assembly to allow MPs to make an amendment to this bill. Otherwise, in other respects, this doesn't make sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-08-0.u27906	The same answer is the proposal of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, and based on the conclusions made by the Commission which we have chosen here and authorised to submit the proposal. According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's MP, Dejan Michael.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-08-0.u27907	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has exceeded its powers set out in Article 45. Rules of Procedure on the work of the Serbian Parliament. Nowhere is the authority of the board to deny the right defined by this Rules of Procedure, which is the right to submit amendments to MPs in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Given that this is a very important issue, I have a proposal to take a break and the Administrative Committee to decide whether this proposal by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is in line with the Rules of Procedure and to continue to work afterwards. So, I point out that the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Article 75 - Committee on Constitutional Affairs, has exceeded its powers by proposing to the Assembly to deny the right of MPs to submit amendments to this bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-08-0.u27908	And for the third time, the same answer. I don't know if I should repeat that this is in line with the powers laid down in Article 75. The Rules of Procedure, where the Committee is authorised to make its proposals, and the proposal was made on the basis of the conclusions of the Commission, which was educated by the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-08-0.u27909	I'm not happy with the answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-08-0.u27910	Since MP Dejan Mihajlov is not satisfied with the answer, I am holding a session of the Administrative Committee and I am asking that the complaint be made regarding the infringement of Article 75 be made known. Rules of Procedure. Before we decide on a proposal from the Constitutional Affairs Committee, I ask that we establish a quorum. I'm guessing we have a quorum to decide on. I put to the vote the proposal of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs to adopt the law in the proposed text, without submitting amendments, by a majority of votes of the total number of MPs. For 114, against 91, the abstentioned were not voted seven, out of a total of 212 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a proposal from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Lists with order of MPs declared for the word have been delivered. In accordance with Article 136(1) of the Treaty, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a search in principle. The president's representative has already spoken. Does the Proposer's representative want a word again? He doesn't want to. ) (Dejan Mihajlov: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. ) Infringement of the Rules of Procedure again. There is a word from MP Dejan Mihajlov and then from MP Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-08-0.u27911	I point out the breach of the Rules of Procedure - the Assembly has hurt the Rules of Procedure by denying the right to Members of Parliament to propose amendments to this law. I'm asking the Administrative Board to declare this breach to the Rules of Procedure, because a member of 141 has been injured. The Rules of Procedure on Labour, as the fundamental right of MPs and the Assembly to submit amendments to the draft laws is being compromised. I ask that the amendments that we submitted to the Serbian Parliament this morning on this bill be multiplied and distributed to the MPs, so that all MPs can have insight into what the Democratic Party of Serbia has proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-08-0.u27912	I don't think the chairman hurt the Rules of Procedure because he only has one vote. So the decision was made by the National Assembly. You're looking for a reenactment of the Administrative Board. I would also like to take this into account when deciding the Administrative Board on objections to the infringements of the Rules of Procedure. We're starting a debate. Do the officials of the committees want a word? National MP Stevan Liliæ had already had his word. The presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, come in. The word was first reported by MP Zarko Obradovic, president of the SPS parliamentary group, and then by MP Dragan Markovic and MP Borislav Pelevic, the authorised representative of the SSJ parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-08-0.u27913	Dear Presidency, fellow MPs, Mr. Minister, since Shabic is currently missing, today we are considering a bill on the way and procedure of amending the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which was drafted by a commission, which was formed by the National Assembly decision for this reason. The representatives of the Socialist Party of Serbia were Mr Zoran Angelkovic and I. Members of the Commission are familiar with our views, as well as the reasons why we voted against each of the proposed laws in general, but also in certain conclusions. Let me, on behalf of the Socialist Party Group of Serbia, introduce the MPs to the Socialist Party of Serbia's views and the reasons why we could not support this bill and follow-up conclusions. First, when it comes to the composition of the future constitutional commission, as set out in Article 4 of this law, the Socialist Party of Serbia has proposed that the Commission fully reflects the composition of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. the representation of political parties in line with the results of the last parliamentary elections. The Commission thus formed has the highest legitimacy and strength, because it is a direct reflection of the National Assembly, i.e. the expressed electoral will of citizens. We proposed that the Commission count 25 representatives, to apply the principle of proportionate representation of political parties in the Assembly. We offered a functional solution, that a proportionate representation of parties existed, and that political parties would decide whether their representatives would be of the order of MPs or they would autonomously decide who would represent them. The proposal was not accepted. I must say that the starting number of 15 MPs from the National Assembly was increased to 20 during the debate and decision-making process, not 25 as requested. In most cases, the Commission has made a decision contained in Article 4 of this proposal. With regard to the composition of the commission, the Socialist Party of Serbia is against the proposal for representatives of the Serbian government to be members of the constitutional commission. We believe that there is no room for the government here, because the government may, if it so wishes, make an independent and direct motion to change the Constitution and it does not need indirect representation and entry into the Committee for the Making of the Constitution at a small door. I must say that this is a matter of principle, because in the course of the Commission's work with all three representatives of the Government, as well as with other members of the Commission, a very correct, democratic and professional exchange of views has been reached on all issues from the Commission's work domain. We are not even in agreement with the Commission's proposal to have three representatives, MPs from the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina and the Autonomous Region of Kosovo and Metohija. This, in our opinion, results in a double representation of citizens through the provinces' congregations and through the Serbian Parliament. Given that Serbia was one electoral unit in the past elections, it is logical for citizens to be represented only through MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, especially as there are a number of MPs from Vojvodina and Kosovo and Metohija among them. Why would Vojvodina and Kosovo and Metohija be represented twice in the constitutional commission? When it comes to representatives from Kosovo and Metohija, this is not the law's proposal, and it is said in the conclusions, or proposed to accept the "Return" coalition candidate, because it is rightly believed that the Kosovo and Metohija assembly will not propose its candidates for the commission. The Socialist Party of Serbia believes that representatives of Kosovo and Metohija, as well as Vojvodina, can be found among the MPs of this National Assembly, because there are both who live and work there. A representative of the Return Coalition may be included in the Commission, but before the Return Coalition, one of the MPs from Kosovo and Metohija, who are here among us, should certainly be represented. When it comes to the composition of the constitutional commission, it should ultimately be said that all of this is done by representatives of the government, representatives of the Vojvodina, Kosovo and Metohija Assembly, in order to ensure the predominance of the DOS, as a political group, and thus the possibility of voting the necessary solutions. The DOS will be presented by representatives of the government, representatives of the Vojvodina Assembly, as the DOS makes up the majority there, and eventually through the coalition's representative "Return". It is known that in the past elections in Kosovo and the DOS Metohija, it has warmly supported the Return Coalition as a political option that took part in the elections below. The DOS in this way, through the composition of the commission, obviously wants to provide the majority necessary to vote on the proposal, which will be the subject of the commission's work, i.e. to determine the text of Serbia's constitution. Secondly, the SPS believes that the draft constitution of Serbia, when established by the constitutional commission, should necessarily be the subject of consideration in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, that MPs can express their position in relation to the draft constitution, propose amendments and therefore, if amendments are adopted, and change the content of the draft constitution. The participation of MPs also provides greater democracy in the constitutional process and gives the constitution greater weight, gives it greater importance. Such a way of adopting a constitution could be adopted by a majority of the total number of MPs. Only after that, statements by the Assembly, the constitution should go to a public debate, and not as proposed, that the constitutional commission draw up a draft constitution, that a public debate be organised without the Assembly, that the constitutional commission will compromise and the results of the public debate, and only then deliver it to the National Assembly for a statement. We all know, and it is justified to assume that the text that passes the public debate and which the constitutional committee then completes will essentially be the final text of the constitution, and we do not think that this is a good solution. The third -- a question of the majority needed for the adoption of the constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The SPS MPs consider this, and we have also proposed to the Commission who prepared this text of the law in order to be logical and necessary, given the importance and role of the constitution as the most significant legal act of each country, and logically to Serbia, that when the constitution passes a public debate, when all objections and proposals are discussed, when the final text of the constitution is established, that the constitution be adopted by a two-thirds majority of the total number of MPs in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. A constitution adopted in this way would be a permanent, strong constitution. The constitution adopted by a two-thirds majority in the Assembly would also be a message and an invitation to Serbian citizens that there is a majority agreement on the text of the constitution, that citizens should go to the referendum and support the proposed text of the constitution. In that case, we think it would be relevant whether the referendum will succeed or not. A solution to the adoption of the constitution with 126 MPs, whether we like it or not, objectively raises the question and the fate of the referendum, but also the strength of the adopted constitution. We believe that the parliamentary majority for the adoption of Serbia's constitution, so 2/3, is also needed for the adoption of constitutional law for the implementation of the constitution. Dear fellow Members of the People, I have listed three main reasons why the SPS representatives in the Commission did not support the solutions offered and why the SPS MPs cannot vote in favour of such a bill. After all, we have proposed several amendments, in line with our views on the Commission, but this will not be the subject of consideration. Since I mentioned the amendments, let me point out two more reasons that are directly and indirectly mentioned in the bill, in the reasoning and accompanying conclusions, which the SPS disagree with and for which, in addition to the reasons mentioned, we cannot vote in favour of the proposed text of the law. In addition to the inability to propose amendments, there is also a constitutional declaration, its emphasis on the drafting of the bill and the possibility of adoption (now the Constitutional Commission has proposed that the constitutional declaration be adopted), as well as two issues that SPS representatives disagreed with most of the members of the Commission.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-08-0.u27914	Are you using the next ten minutes? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-08-0.u27915	Yeah. Thank you. It is not logical and we do not think it is acceptable that this text of the bill cannot be submitted to the amendment. We think that this fear of the amendment is without reason, because, obviously, the debate cannot be extended and extended. We have proposed only three amendments and this shows our intention to get to the quality text, not to tell the story for it. National MPs, at least according to the existing Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, can propose laws, regulations and other acts, but by decision of the Committee and by decision of the National Assembly, they cannot propose amendments to this text of the law. It's actually the essence of this first conclusion that's been adopted. I cannot propose amendments to the text of the law, it will not be able to do so on the text of the constitution; MPs are essentially staying on the sidelines of the constitution process, which is a bad solution. Finally, the constitutional declaration and the question of discontinuity mentioned in the conclusions, which were largely referred to at the Commission's session. The representatives of the SPS in the Commission were against making a constitutional declaration, as the Commission, in our opinion, went beyond the framework of the entrusted task. The Commission should establish a draft law on the way and procedure of changing the Constitution, so that Serbia, in accordance with Article 65. The Constitutional Charter within six months of the adoption of the Constitutional Charter shall amend its Constitution or adopt a new constitution, in order to comply with the Constitutional Charter. The constitutional declaration is not mentioned, so we don't think it should have had its place in its conclusions. When it comes to the issue of continuity and discontinuity, we think it's a purely political issue. More specifically, it is just another way to open new useless discussions, to multiply false dilemmas, to distract Serbian citizens from essential issues, to encourage conflict and energy consumption. In any case, to confuse the citizens of Serbia. What exactly does he want with this debate about continuity and discontinuity? If it wants to prove that the current constitution has been brought in a non-democratic way, that it is not made up by democratic and professional standards, that it is not a good normative framework for reforms, then it is absolutely wrong. That constitution was confirmed at the referendum. According to him, DOS implements reforms, no matter what these reforms mean. Under this same constitution, DOS implements privatisation, amends labour legislation, ends the electoral will of citizens through manipulation of parliamentary mandates, seduces the state of emergency, derivates the role of President of the Republic, etc. If one is thought to come up with or rewrite a constitutional system that needs to be pampered with in Serbia in order to enable the quickly promised development, then it is about one delusion and a short-term business. If, in turn, DOS wants the monarchy, the abolition of the division of power, the federalisation of Serbia, the domination of the executive over the judicial and legislative authority (which is now the practice) of abolishing the opposition (which seems to be) as well as many other things called the Five-Ottobar Revolution, then it is discontinuity and we are against it, as most citizens of Serbia. Let's face it, there's no miracle law, no constitution, no constitutional reform can skip some stages that other democratic societies have been going through for centuries. It is not good to create a false hope that the new constitution will solve our problems: creating a competitive economy, which does not exist; the problem of Kosovo and Metohija, which is pushed into another plan; a higher standard and the well-being of citizens, which it does not have. The constitution does not create, it only organizes, builds. The current reform of the constitutional order takes place in other circumstances than 15 years ago. It's about discontinuity. We should, respecting these circumstances of European integration, model a constitution that will lead us to a common goal, the well-being of all citizens. The constitution should thus group social and political forces to work more usefully to achieve that goal, and this is about continuity. When it comes to the regime of power-sharing, guaranteeing human and civil rights and freedoms, and this is about continuity. When it comes to amending the Constitution, and this constitution needs to confirm the people in the referendum. However, a lower censorship is foreseen, but that is also part of the continuity. If we are talking about discontinuity, the DOS at the very beginning of constitutional work sends a message that the Serbian Constitution will only take its views, not as the expression of the majority's consensus. Such a constitution will surely be rejected by citizens in the referendum, and it certainly will not be in favour of solving the crisis, but of deepening it. I believe that Professor Hiber, a member of the Commission, was right when he said at one of the meetings of the Commission that we should abandon the idea of giving political, historical, ideological, and other answers to questions of continuity and discontinuity. The right answer to that question will surely be given by historians in 50 years, and we need to stick to what our job is. That is why we MPs of the Socialist Party of Serbia believe that concrete solutions should be reached as soon as possible, so we will see where we are in continuity and where discontinuity has been made and whether this will achieve those goals that are justified. We have presented to the Commission several reasons why this law is not acceptable to us and we will do so today in the Assembly. We feel that the law could have improved, and in any case we feel that this law is not acceptable to us.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-08-0.u27916	The word has been made by MP Borislav Pelevic, an authorised representative of the Serb Unity Party's parliamentary group, and after that, MP Bojan Pajtic came forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-08-0.u27917	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, the MP group of the Serbian Unity Party will not vote in favour of this bill for several reasons, but I will give myself the right to point out the most important reason why we cannot support this legislative proposal. This is primarily a Article 8 that says that the National Assembly adopts the constitution by a majority of the total number of MPs. I am deeply convinced that the constitution adopted by a simple majority, so only with 126 MPs in this assembly, will not be a long century and will not be a cohesion factor in the state of Serbia. Let us remember that many democratic states have constitutions that last 200 years or more. I'm afraid that when some new elections come, some other government will also wave changes to the constitution, so we won't have any continuity in the constitutional arrangement of the Serbian state. That's the basic reason why we can't support this bill. I would like to remind you that many members of the Commission have almost sworn that the Constitution in the Assembly will be adopted by a two-thirds majority. Many of them are now, unfortunately, members of the commission and have changed their minds and represent the position this commission has proposed. I have an understanding for those members of the proposal who talk about having the referendum held in such a way as to get 50% out and that of those 50% of the simple majority in the vote vote vote for the constitution. This is understandable and there is justification for the situation in which our southern Serbian province of Kosovo and Metohija is located, but Article 8 does not really have any foothold and there is no excuse. I would like to remind you that one of the members of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, Montenegro, in its 117 Constitution, has a view that the change of the Constitution can only be adopted by a two-thirds majority. If one member of the state community has this embedded in its constitution, I see no reason why Serbia is going to adopt the constitution only by a simple majority, i.e. 126 MPs. That is the basic reason the Serbian Unity Party will not vote for the bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-08-0.u27918	The word has been issued by MP Bojan Pajtic, president of the DOS parliamentary group – Serbia's Reform.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-08-0.u27919	The President-in-Office of the Republic of Serbia's Constitution is the most important condition for entering into the business of change, i.e. the adoption of the Law on the way in which the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is changed. This law defines the constitutional commission, its constitution and the way it works, and prescribes the obligation of public debate, the way, that is, the censorship of the adoption of a new republican constitution, or constitutional law for the application of that constitution. The reasons for changing the Constitution are multiple. The first reason is certainly to comply with the Constitutional Charter of the Community of States, so to get out of that situation that we had for 10 years with the relationship between the Republic and the Federal Constitution. The second reason is quite certain to break up with the authoritarian past and break up with those moments in the Constitution that define it in a strong ideological way, from mentioning social property, so onward, something beyond the sea, and quite certain to modernise those provisions relating to state authorities and the territorial organisation of the Republic of Serbia. The function of this law is, above all, to resolve the issue of legality, i.e. constitutionality, whether it is necessary to comply with the procedure provided for by the existing Constitution when adopting a new constitution, since it is a constitution that belongs to the category so-called ‘the Constitution’. rigid constitutions, therefore practically unchangeable constitutions, or it is necessary to go through discontinuity, partial or complete. The irreversibility of the existing constitution has had many serious consequences, therefore from the non-compliance of the two constitutions, which led to the non-compliance of federal and republican legislation at many times, to the fact that the Federal Constitutional Court disputed the constitutionality of certain provisions of the Republic Constitution, that there was no mechanism for amending these provisions, nor was there – since it was necessary to amend the entire procedure, which led to the conclusion that it was an invariable constitution - any other mechanism on which the highest constitutional and judicial authority in the country could be respected, therefore, the Federal Constitutional Court. So, a traumatic situation that is extremely problematic for the functioning of the legal system in the territory of the entire Yugoslavia, especially in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. This law defines the path of partial discontinuity, retains the category of referendum, something else dimensional. It does not retain that relationship that was necessary to provide in the congregation according to the existing Constitution. So the discontinuity that is predicted in this way is something that we followed when adopting the Constitutional Charter of the Community of States, something that is a characteristic of countries in transition. In addition to Hungary, virtually all transition countries went through discontinuity: the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Slovenia, whose constitutional discontinuity was in direct correlation with state discontinuity, or Poland, in which there was no correlation but the discontinuity was the result of a change in social relations in the country. The professional public is also practically undivided on the need to apply discontinuity, partly or entirely, with the previous constitution. This law creates conditions for the establishment of a constitutional authority in the Republic of Serbia - not a reviving authority, but a power that is the only authority, which itself prescribes the rules of its constitution, which itself defines the scope of its authority, so the constitutional authority - through the procedure and through the procedure defined by this law. This law also defines representativeness, which is unusually important given the character of this document. Representatives of the executive commission are seen in both the representatives of the Republic's parliament and the representatives of territorial autonomy, and particularly with emphasis on representatives of the Kosovo and Metohija Assembly or on representatives of Kosovo and Metohija, which is not only important as a signal to the internal public but also to the international public, which strongly confirms our political determination that sovereignty in Kosovo and Metohija is something that the Republic of Serbia is certainly not going to give up. The democratic standards envisioned by this bill are seen in both the Institute of Public Discussion, through which the presence and our obligations are met, political, legal and any other, to listen to what the professional public has to say about this issue, and to retain the referendum as an institute reflecting the will of the people, which is the only institution of sovereignty and which, in the ultimate line, can confirm the existence, i.e. the need for a basic constitutional act in a particular political community. The short term, of some 120 days, which is foreseen by this law, is clear about our will to carry out this work in a quality and quick way for the constitutional commission to be established and to be discussed in public, or to be adopted by the constitution. So, to enter into this historic business, with the fact that it requires full measure and political and professional consent, but on the other hand, requires the urgency of the moment we are in. The proposal, i.e. by adopting this law, since the Constitution and the adoption of a new constitution always establishes a new political community, we intend to establish a political community based on the principle of democracy. This law, i.e. the adoption of this law, will achieve and provide what is most important to each new political community - the broadest consensus of the professional and political public. In that sense, the DOS parliamentary club -- Serbia's Reform -- will vote in favour of the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-08-0.u27920	The word has been made by MP Dejan Mihajlov, president of the DSS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-08-0.u27921	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, the honourable MPs (at least those in the O.R., since we are not much, but there is a card, which someone says), are undivided in most of the public, and I believe in this assembly, the need for constitutional discontinuity. We came, or so we hoped, to one political discontinuity and the need to build a new democratic state on other and new foundations, with one legal system that would allow for the construction of a European democratic state, which Serbia should be. The DSS insisted on adopting a new constitution, believing it to be the first step in building a legal, democratic state; a constitution that will guarantee a European level of all civil, human and minority rights, which will determine how organisations and institutions in Serbia function and which will bring us a strong assembly, directly elected president, with less powers than it now has, which will give us conditions for responsible authority. The professional public, as I said, is undivided. But also, if you listen to the advice and voice of the professional public, you should take care of it until the end. It should be kept in mind if someone from the professional public mentioned this way of changing the Constitution of Serbia, did someone from the professional public say that the Constitution should be changed, as one says, simply or most of the 126 MPs? Has anyone from the professional public said that the Constitution will change most of what is necessary for the vote of one minister, one member of the broadcasting council, whether someone from the professional public said this - did not, nor will you hear it, nor is it a practice in any modern European country, a member of the Council of Europe. The professional public and European practice do not know such a solution. And if we're already referring to the professional public, mind heads, then we need to listen to them and listen to them until the end. You don't need to listen to them to the extent that it suits you, and it's usually less and less in these cases; and, as time goes on, less and less corresponds to the position of the professional public, because the profession has been listening less and less lately, and political needs are being respected. This constitution and this law are obviously a political need. The constitution is the need of a state, and this law is the need for the rest of the DOS, in order to bring a constitution that would slightly prolong Serbia's agony and extend their lives in power. If the Department of Justice's proposal is in the law on the People's Lawyer, or the Ombudsman, as popular as it is, it is intended to be elected by two-thirds of the MPs in this assembly, then how is the Commission's proposal, whose president is the minister of justice, to vote with 126 MPs? Well, is the Ombudsman more important to us than the constitution? What right will that Ombudsman protect, if not the rights defined and determined by the constitution? Well, what kind of state are we making, what hierarchy of acts are we making in our country, and is the constitution at all something to play with, or is the constitution, at least in the process of discontinuity, that we expected to be, due to the consent of the largest number of political factors? I believe that one constitution, brought into the process where the views of the largest number of parties would be respected, could be adopted by two-thirds of the vote, but it is obvious that the deed to the adoption of the constitution should be laid down by one illegal assembly, one illegal majority, which is based on the mandates that have been stolen, that is, by the Constitution and law, long ago to be taken away from those who are sitting in this room. We will get one such constitution, brought into an illegal assembly, by illegal mandates. The referendum is by law and the most common form of a previous statement on a matter. Under the law on Montenegro's referendum, this is a previous form, according to various international legislation, the referendum is always treated as a form of previous statement. Nowhere in any referendum law, the referendum is not treated and does not exist as a phase in the adoption of an act. It doesn't exist anywhere. The third thing, a referendum under the Law of the Republic of Serbia can be a form of confirmation in certain exceptions to certain laws, and these are some things that this law does not respect. This law simply suspended the entire legal system. Here they have been suspended by the Constitution guaranteed the rights of MPs to submit amendments and we are coming to the stage that the referendum will be one conqualification of what the parliamentary illegal majority, based on stolen mandates, will bring. You are bringing citizens into convalescation of the illegal decisions of this House and questioning the entire order of things, questioning the entire state. It's something that's totally unacceptable and the DSS, of course, can't support it. We highlighted these objections during the work of the Commission itself. Special attention should be paid to the composition of the commission. The composition of the commission prejudges the solutions to this constitution. The composition of the commission prejudges the solution that Serbia will go through federalisation, i.e. confederalisation; because the necessary majority to adopt this constitution will depend on the votes of MPs who advocate the federalisation of Serbia, and the commission itself, where a double representation of individual Serbian citizens is predicted, prejudges the solution to the constitution, which is the federalisation of Serbia. Serbian citizens are represented equally in this assembly and the whole of Serbia is an electoral unit. All citizens voted with this and this assembly, and it was a representative of the citizens' will in January 2001, i.e. to reflect the will of the citizens at that time. The reintroduction of this commission, the representation by the province's assembly, puts us in a position to represent some citizens twice; the people of Vojvodina are represented (and I am from Vojvodina, there are more MPs from all the parties from Vojvodina) in this commission and will be presented, as are the citizens of other parts of Serbia. Why should the citizens of Vojvodina be twice represented, for example, in relation to the citizens of Nis, Kragujevac, Kruševac, or some other cities, why would they have the privilege of having more influence on the adoption of the constitution and elections for themselves some rights that maybe the citizens of Belgrade, Kruševac, Kragujevac and other cities will not have? Why should the very process of adopting the constitution introduce inequality and make Serbian citizens unequal in rights and equal in obligations. It is a need to adopt a constitution and to buy Vojvodina MPs who advocate autonomy, or federalisation of Vojvodina, to vote in favour of this constitution that will certainly be a constitution that will enable Serbia to federalise, or confederate as a single territory. It will endanger Serbia's unique territorial integrity, the functioning of Serbia's legal and political system. The introduction of this disproportionateity speaks of the intention to buy individual votes in the commission itself. The constitution, as an act to obtain the strongest legitimacy, as an act of discontinuity at this time, would have to be brought in, voted out as a result of a broad consensus of all political factors, rather than a revote that was present in the Commission's work itself, which will also be present in this assembly. That way, happiness for Serbia will not be. Voting and adopting a constitution to the small majority will not bring happiness to the state of Serbia and the citizens of Serbia. It will only deepen political conflicts, endanger legal certainty, make Serbia a state that will not have a constitution that will serve for generations, but a constitution that will result from the political need in its maintenance function another month in power. Putting everything into the role of political maintenance in an illegal assembly will put the whole state at risk, and that authority itself, and will make it impossible for the huge system changes that we have all been so committed to. We will get a constitution of discontinuity with the 1990 Constitution, but we will get a constitution of continuity with the 1974 Constitution, which has organized everything we've been going through for the last ten years.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-08-0.u27922	The word has a folk MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-08-0.u27923	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, unfortunately, today when we talk about the Constitution and the draft law on the way and procedure of amending the Constitution, there are 50 MPs in this assembly and the whole procedure comes down to that procedure which is about to apply when the statutes of a local community are adopted. There are about 5,000 citizens living in the local community, called for a session, came 50, with 26 votes, the statutes of the local community are adopted. At that level, we've levelled the adoption of such an important act. Not to mention that it is truly inappropriate for a democratic state, which we are about to betray, to pass in a state of emergency in the country such a law and to initiate a procedure for changing the Constitution. But that's what the public will say when they can come forward. Starting with Article 65. The Constitutional Charter of the State Community of Serbia-Montenegro, under which the Member States will amend their constitutions or bring new constitutions, in order to comply with the Constitutional Charter, within six months of the date of adoption of the Constitutional Charter, the Commission for the Preparation of the Law on the Way and Procedure of the Change of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which the National Assembly has formed, has delivered this bill to us and has already in its first article prejudged its task by saying that it needs to draw up the text of the Constitution of Serbia, although the Charter does not oblige us to do so, but leaves us with the possibility to execute and amend an existing or new constitution. Here it is said in the first article that "this law regulates education, the composition and the way the constitutional commission works, with the task of drawing up the text of Serbia's constitution". Who gave the commission the authority to assess whether this constitution should be amended in some parts, or whether a whole new constitution should be adopted? Maybe on some DOS polythburo, but the National Assembly didn't pass it on to this commission. So she took over the powers that were not given to her by a decision on her education. We also see in the first article that the name of the future state is prejudged, as there is talk everywhere about Serbia's constitution, and there is no constitution of the Republic of Serbia. I don't know if you noticed, but it's not some kind of formal mistake. It's obviously deliberately abandoned, because it's obviously going to federalize the future state through the adoption of a new constitution. According to us, the Serbian Radicals, this Commission should also regulate the procedure for establishing and submitting a proposal to amend the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, laying down the text of the Act amending the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the adoption of the Act amending the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the procedure for the final adoption of the Act amending the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the way in which the Act amending the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and the procedure for the adoption of constitutional law to implement the change of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia should be declared. This way, which is fully feasible, would allow full compliance with the provisions and the current Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and the Constitutional Charter of the State Community. Those who claim that this constitution is immutable, here, based on what I have just said, and what should have been the subject of one of the amendments to Article 1 by the MPs of the SRS, would have realised that this is absolutely possible and that this constitution is not unchangeable as some want to show it. Otherwise, the change in the constitution in all democratic countries means the widest political consensus. I remind you that you have begun to introduce very dangerous precedents that can cost us all very dearly, especially a country that has no price. We're introducing a precedent so we can't change the way we intervene in a bill, and we can file bill proposals. Pure absurd! We're introducing precedents that it's enough to have 126 MPs here and bring any act, even the constitution. One day it can turn on the tubes and not be really good, because once we reach one level that is considered democratic, we can not change it for many years. In our view, it would be most acceptable for this commission to number 25 members, to be the chairman of the National Assembly, to give each parliamentary club, and currently there are 12 in the Serbian Parliament, to equal the number of MPs in this commission, which would mean two members. I suppose any parliamentary club would make sure that there are people who are professional in this area; although the constitution is a political category, although politicians are the ones who influence the adoption of the constitution and finding solutions, we cannot neglect the profession. Of the 250 MPs, there are certainly those who can make their own professional contribution. According to us, the government has already been represented through most of the National Assembly, although at the outset today, when setting the agenda, it is not true, because government proposals here have been rejected by the assembly majority; and, absolutely, it is inappropriate for its members to be composed of this commission outside parliament. MPs of the AP assembly, any one, particularly these occupations in Kosovo and Metohija, should not be included in the commission, as citizens from both autonomous provinces have already been represented in parliament by representatives who in the 2000 elections received voter confidence and there is no need to further enhance the participation of citizens in the area of individual autonomous provinces within the commission. As I recall, we went out with individual electoral lists as political parties or political coalitions, not as members of certain religious communities or certain national minorities. Here in this House, of us 250, there are MPs of different creeds, different nationalities, and there is no need to commit, in this way and in this single act, to be equal national representation in the composition of the constitutional commission. The Constitutional Commission can decide only on a two-thirds majority, and this should be introduced into this law (unfortunately, we cannot correct it in amendment), so that you do not have the situation you had when making the Rules of Procedure and determining that most of the members present in the work of this committee, which has proposed to us, in which the representatives of the SRS did not participate, because they did not want to participate in the amendment of the Constitution in an unconstitutional manner. And as far as we know, neither the representatives of the Constitutional Court nor the Supreme Court participated in her work, so that this bill is also problematicd from that point of view, but that is the least important.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-08-0.u27924	Are you using the next 10 minutes?
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-08-0.u27925	Yeah. We are - I have to talk about these amendments that we have delivered to the National Assembly, because only by force are we prevented from discussing and explaining them - we have tried to show you that it is possible to respect the Constitutional Charter of the State Community and the existing Republic Constitution and its members regarding the change of the Constitution and to make changes to the existing constitution or to bring about a new constitution. As possible, you're probably wondering, when this constitution is unchangeable to you. Here, in this way - a proposal for a change of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia submitted by authorised proposings, and we do not have an authorised motion to change the Constitution, and in accordance with Article 132. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the president of the National Assembly, would deliver to this constitutional commission which would be required to consider the proposal within 60 days of the date of receipt and deliver its opinion to the president of the National Assembly. On these proposals for amending the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the Constitutional Commission is obliged to declare whether they are submitted in accordance with the Constitutional Charter of the State Community of Serbia-Montenegro and the provisions of the existing Constitution, Articles 132 to 134. When the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia adopts a proposal to amend the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia by a majority of two-thirds of its votes, the constitutional commission would be required within 60 days to establish the text of an act amending the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. I know you're now asking how it's possible to secure a two-thirds majority here, and that's possible. So if the composition of the commission were the way we suggested it, so that each parliamentary club proposed by two members, that consensus would already exist in the work of the Commission itself and would be re-painted here in the National Assembly and we could probably be two-thirds of the majority, the political consensus, which must be in the broadest sense when it comes to the constitution, to bring this act. The Act amending the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which was established by the Constitutional Commission, would be forwarded to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and would be considered adopted if at least two-thirds of the total number of MPs voted for the act. Of course, in the Constitution, the last word gives voters the referendum issue, as you predicted, namely half of the total number of voters should come out, and half of it should be declared positive for the referendum issue. This means that 1,650,000 voters should give a confirmatory answer to the referendum issue and the constitution should be adopted. We find this absolutely wrong, that this referendum must be attended by as many voters as possible, voters must be motivated and it would be necessary to make half of the voter entries clear on the referendum issue. It is about the Constitution, don't forget, that constitution treats all human and minority rights, all freedoms and logically, that citizens must be interested and give confirmation to the National Assembly by their statement in the referendum. Of course, according to us, what would be the result of a failed referendum? I claim that the referendum will not succeed if you do not tie it to some election, unless the election campaign is at all tolerable for all political factors and if we fail to motivate voters to go to the polls. This would result in the disbanding of the National Assembly, because then it would be obvious that we have failed the will of the citizens, giving it the text of a constitution that does not correspond to the citizens. According to us, the referendum, these are experience so far, can be very easily falsified; the referendum always organises power, there is no possibility that political factors and political parties will follow the implementation of the referendum and can always question the outcome of the referendum. With this bill of law, you are also predicting a public debate. Of course, there is a question of the possibility of having a public debate in a state of emergency, and I said at the beginning and beginning of this procedure, so I ask you how are we to conduct a public debate if we are in an emergency? How are we going to bring together citizens or that professional public whose opinion you are very interested in, which is why you are not interested in the opinions of the MPs, and to explain to them what we wanted with this constitution? Either we will only be able to enable government representatives and with government representatives, of course, the bosses, or the head of the parliamentary club of the majority or the president of this or that committee of the majority who has the authority to talk about it. Where are we all from in this House? Citizens need to hear each other's opinions, both the other's and the third's. The opinion of the professional public should also be heard. Now I ask you how it is possible for what is in Article 7 to be possible, based on the results of the public debate, the Constitutional Commission determines the text of the Constitution of Serbia and delivers it to the National Assembly within 15 days of the date of the end of the public debate, which otherwise takes 45 days. So, on the basis of the results of the public debate and the opinion of the expert public, the Constitutional Commission will intervene in this text of the Constitution and deliver us here to the Assembly, take or leave as a matter of principle. So who are we here? Is this congregation still supposed to work or is it time to break up, to go back to the elections, to go to elections for a constitutional assembly? I must remind you that the Constitutional Assembly was also disbanded when they were unable to bring the constitution within the time limit that was left for them. What happens to this congregation, if within this time limit, which is prescribed by law here, does not bring about a new constitution? We'll see. I do not think that this assembly has long since had the legitimacy to make the most common decisions on the appointment of various officials of judicial officials, nor on the choice, let alone to make such important acts as the draft laws concerning the procedure for the change of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Serbian Radical Party MPs will not vote for such a bill, will not participate in the change of the constitution in an unconstitutional manner. We leave it to the rest of you to go to your soul and to your historical responsibility. What consequences this will have all over the country will, of course, be said by citizens in the next elections that are obviously very close.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-08-0.u27926	The word comes from MP Zoran Cirkovic, president of the New Serbia parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-08-0.u27927	Madam Vice-President of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I was a member of the Commission who passed this bill on how to change the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. At first, I express satisfaction with the efficiency of my work. Of course, this deadline would have been shortened if there had been no more force, or tragic event, of the assassination of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia. Of course, I do not share the satisfaction of that deadline with regard to the resolutions made by this law. What's safe and what no one slows down is the fact that the Constitution has to change. The deadlines are binding for the reason why the Constitutional Charter prescribed them. What is most significant is that the existing constitution is anachron and that after the five-octobaric changes, a constitution should have been adopted that could speed up reforms. There are several dilemmas, there are several problems that are open this way. The fact is, we stand for discontinuity. This means that the previous constitutional solutions have been overcome and that in the best democratic form, not to say tradition, since we are a country that does not have a special democratic tradition, we will bring a new one, in a way that could best reflect the people's will. For this reason, I regret that the Commission that passed this bill had no hearing of a solution that could solve many problems. It is a matter of referendum, i.e. a matter of referendum declaration on the Constitution. New Serbia and I, as its representative, have advocated a small original solution. It is good, for it rightly reflects the will of the people. I advocated that Serbian citizens participate in creating constitutional text. For this reason, I have proposed to our excellent lawyers that they simply identify what are the constitutional categories that create certain dilemmas. It seems to me that there are three questions that could have been clarified on the so-called. a pre-referendum statement. The referendum makes sense if the legislator points to what the people stand for, what at that moment represents a people's will. When I talk about these three things, I pointed out on the Commission, I'm glad that he noticed these same things, and the distinguished Professor Lilic. He didn't mention the third thing I'm going to mention. I'll tell you what makes me think I'm right, not him. I think three things are unexplained. First, the matter of state order. If we really understand that the communist revolution was one nonsensist in the revolution, one incident, then the situation that went on afterwards was an incident. It's simply a regime that represents a black hole in Serbian history. That's what we don't admit. The dyscontinence in that sense is to ask the citizens -- do you like that you still have a republic, although before communism you didn't have that. If citizens say we like it, it's a fact we have to respect. In that case, if citizens plead to the Republic as a form of state order, the question can be raised whether the head of state will be elected directly in parliament or directly in the elections. It's a question of this. So only then do we find that the republic is what Serbian citizens prefer is the question being asked. The issue is a matter of constitutional concept, and the constitutional concept says whether we are advocating the office system, i.e. We believe that executive power is what is good, or we advocate a presidential system, such as that in France. Depending on this constitutional concept, this issue could be opened. This issue is not being opened before we find out in a referendum whether Serbian citizens are for a change in state order, because they believe that the current has been imposed by revolution and revolutionary violence. I have no other knowledge of the mood of citizens except what the media is telling me. In a conversation with my friends, I get the impression that the monarchy is what Serbian citizens stand for. I'm not saying it's like that, but why don't we ask them? If we ask them, they'll say, and when they tell us, then we know. So far, in some surveys on television, I have seen that a large number of Serbian citizens are royalist. It is possible that at that point, only the royalists felt that it was necessary to report. Professor Lilic says - I think the arguments for the republican form of arrangements are stronger. Of course, they're stronger Republicans, but monarchism is stronger with monarchs. Therefore, the arguments are stronger for some, and this depends on what they are defined for. It's a thing we're not gonna argue about. Another thing that creates certain dilemmas, and not only dilemmas but, I would say, even conflicts in our political life is the issue of regionalization. Following these four constitutional solutions published in the media, we see that these positions are divided. Some advocate 12 districts, cuts, or provinces, and some advocate six. I don't know what the real thing is. Let's ask the citizens what they think is right. The third thing is a matter of state symbols. I asked that question at the first constitutional session of this assembly, already in 2001 in January. Now I again express my regret, which is why this sad emblem of Gjorge Andrejevic - Kuna still represents this country. If it is already a question of discontinuity, then let us establish, because none of the countries created from the former Yugoslavia have retained this emblem except Macedonia. Macedonia had no others, Macedonians won the state only when it was made by communists. Serbs didn't need to communicate with the real state, they had it before the communists, unfortunately, came to power. If these three questions are really resolved by a referendum, then the referendum confirmation is unnecessary. Serbian citizens participated, they created an existing constitutional text. So they will send us, as representatives of the people, a signal in which they will say, that is what we stand for. If we get such feedback, then the parliamentary majority that supports a certain constitutional solution would have greater support in the people. Why did I stand for this way of communicating with the people? For one more reason: this way every referendum will succeed. We're going to solve these three questions with two dilemmas, of course, with two alternatives, and we're going to get an answer. The current proposal for a referendum statement may fail in two ways. The first way is simply for citizens to go deaf about our appeal to come to the referendum. So it's a technical problem, but it is a problem because we didn't get an answer. Another way for the referendum to fail is for citizens not to support what the constitutional commission stands for. If we were to adopt this model that I stood up for, then we wouldn't be in these troubles that I don't claim will be, but they're possible. After that, the story of how it simply failed politically means nothing, because the constitutional commission was then blocked. If the referendum fails, then we have simply spent time and money and we have not come to any solution, and the current constitution remains in force and the five-octobaric changes have actually brought nothing. (President: Are you using for the next ten minutes? I'm going to finish my first presentation with one more sentence. I think the lack of hearing for this solution can create problems. It is possible that the very narrow majority of the constitution votes and that later it is a signal that every new assembly reaches for a change of constitution, and that would really not be good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-08-0.u27928	Are any of the other presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups answering for a word? No, I don't. ) If not, we are moving on to the order of MPs by application for a word in the principled search on the draft law on the way and procedure of changing the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The first to be declared is MP Velimir Simonovic, followed by MP Milos Lukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-08-0.u27929	Ladies and gentlemen, I have certain reserves according to the text of the law that was proposed to us today. If the constitution is a principled document on which every democratic society should be based, and we want to be such a society, then I see no danger that the two-thirds majority of its adoption cannot be provided here. In his opening statement, Minister Batic said a constitution should be written according to European standards. As we all agree to respect these European standards, I am convinced that the constitutional commission can write the text of the constitution, as I said, strictly principled. If it gives some of the basic principles on which the state is based, the two-thirds majority can be provided very easily. After all, that's why the two-thirds majority is important. We forget in these discussions a fundamental fact: we 250 MPs here represent the sovereign people. We represent these voters, in their name we can decide, because we cannot bring together all six million voters to make decisions. In this regard, the question is whether even a referendum is needed or whether a public debate is needed. If, on the basis of a public debate, which should be primarily professional, the commission decides to prepare its original proposal for a constitution, then we will see afterwards whether we should go to the referendum, given what I said, that we represent the people here in this House. If we go to the referendum, given how it is proposed here, that a constitutional text can be adopted with 126 MPs, so to a simple majority, it takes 50% plus one and should vote for the constitution again half the voters plus one. It can happen, theoretically, that only a quarter of Serbian voters vote in the constitution. It is, of course, too little and that is why I am in favor of it that we should not go below the level of the two-thirds majority here in this House. The Commission's very composition is a bit of a discussion; for me, it was not normal for the President of the Commission to prepare this law to be a member of the Government. So, please, the committee appointed by the Assembly has become Prime Minister! That, of course, is not right. I also don't think it's right, because we're mixing legislative and executive powers, that the committee required by the Assembly to elect the entry of three representatives of the Republic Government. This commission must be purely parliamentary and propose here the text of the constitution. Whether we're going to go to a referendum -- maybe, I'm not against it in principle, but I think it can go away without it if the two-thirds majority of the constitution is provided here in this room. I repeat my deep conviction, for one good text of the constitution, such a majority can be provided here, even without great problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-08-0.u27930	The word has been given by the MP Milos Lukic, followed by the MP Zoran Krasic. A total of 19 MPs from the four parliamentary groups have registered for the debate in principle. The time available to them is 134 minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-08-0.u27931	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, the Soviet Union took part in the work of this commission to draft a bill on the way and procedure of amending the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, because we wanted to show good faith and that we also feel that constitutional changes should be made. It is obvious that the current constitution is anachron and that many things have happened in the meantime and it is no longer that territory, and ultimately, social order is not what it was when the constitution was passed. On the other hand, the constitution relied on the SRJ constitution, and there were also many problems in functioning the relationship. We are aware that the commitment stemmed from the Constitutional Charter governing Serbia-Montenegro's relations. For that reason, once again, we wanted to play an active role in making this law and later in making the text of the constitution. We insisted at the outset on the qualified majority, when this first decision was made, because we felt that in all phases of change the Constitution needed a qualified majority, that it was a good signal that would show that there was a good will and desire for most to be gathered on one side, about an idea, which is the idea of changing the Constitution. However, we have encountered one problem, which is that in the beginning the simple majority has already begun to decide and the only bright point has been to decide in the Commission where the decision to vote by a tropical majority has been made. In fact, the Commission has been established on the basis of 25 members and therefore it appears to be the only stage when it is decided by a qualified majority. When it comes to the constitution of the constitutional commission, we are facing an attempt to correct this mistake, which we have had in the work of this committee; it is now proposed to Article 4 that the commission be established only when members appear and legislate on the constitutional committee and when it is determined who gave his representative and who did not. It is obvious that this composition of the commission, where the Assembly gives 20 members, the Government of the Three, the Assembly of the Vojvodina Three, the Assembly of Kosovo Three, cannot represent a real reflection of the political will of the citizens, because this political will is manifested through a relationship in the assembly and it was realistic to accept the opposition's proposals to be a composition that corresponds to the assembly's composition. Our proposal was to be 25 members, and there was still the possibility that individual groups would give experts outside the Assembly if they wanted to. However, it is obvious that the commission will be established this way and it is also obvious that the Kosovo and Metohija Assembly will reject our call, so we will have one representative of the Return Coalition in this commission. Article 8 also brings great dissatisfaction, both with us and with most of those who are addressed to this matter, for the future constitution will be adopted by most of the total number of MPs. I'm gonna do a little dyspression. When it comes to working in committees, it is very often that we, members of these committees or committees of the Assembly, forget about our party's definition, party membership, and very often create a working and constructive atmosphere. So it was in the first phase of this commission's work. One moment, however, a sharp turn took place, and a position was adopted to go with a simple majority, that is, most of the total number of MPs. In fact, I would very much like to remind myself, however, I do not see here in the Chamber of Members who specifically said that they personally, regardless of the party's views, on coalition views, would not want to allow themselves to plead that the Constitution is changing by simple majority, because it is a moral issue and they have all sworn in these principles, but in the end, without any explanation we have come to this way in which the Constitution will be adopted. The next thing you know is the question of the referendum. That's where we find one great contradiction. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and in the first part of the work of the Commission presented very many arguments in favour of the fact that the amendment of the Constitution is not possible under the existing Constitution because it provides for a referendum. The referendum could not be implemented throughout the territory, and in some ways with enthusiasm some members who explained it explained it as if they discovered a great cause why the Constitution cannot be changed in an existing way, so there must be discontinuity. What does this contradiction consist of? It consists of 50% of voters, i.e. voting in favour, under the existing Constitution. Now we have an obligation to get 50% of the voters out and half of them vote yes. If we are realistic, we should be, we are all smart people, if this constitutional text is adopted with 126 MPs in this assembly, it will be very difficult for 50% of the citizens to come to this referendum. Ask yourself, think, and you'll see that I'm right. On the other hand, if 50% of the citizens come out, those citizens who come out will mostly vote in favour. The story is that 50% will come out and 25% will vote for the Constitution absolutely does not stand. There may be a few percent, a small number of those who will vote against, so we're practically going back to that original solution. Another serious question arises - what if this referendum fails? We have it adopted in the Assembly, the referendum fails and, of course, this current constitution does not work, because we have defined ourselves as a discontinuity and we have one situation that is totally anti-constitutional; but life goes on, and I assume that this constitution, which was adopted in this assembly, would apply without success in the referendum. Another remark, which I would like to make here, which I have also made to the Commission - I believe that the Commission has exceeded its powers, which has been given a decision to form, by proposing, in addition to the text of the law, special conclusions, because we have not had the power to reach conclusions. After all, at least part of those conclusions we could have entered into the text of the law or the preamble of the law. Also, I don't think there was much reason to reject the possibility of the amendment intervened, given the fact that it was a text formed by the decision of this assembly. The Commission was formed by this assembly, and the Commission submitted this proposal to this assembly, so that we could not use analogy with the Constitutional Charter that was to be adopted at the same time both in the Montenegrin Assembly and in the then federal assembly. That analogy here couldn't go through, and I think it was kind of abused. Bringing the constitutional declaration, which is also one of the conclusions, is very problematic. To be honest, I have the impression that we in the Commission have somehow avoided resolving this issue; that is what should have been in the preamble of this law or that it does not stand at all, because the constitutional declaration as such, and we have had the opportunity to look at one proposal, carries many solutions that practically determine the contents of the Constitution, such as the issue of autonomy, the issue of monarchy or the republic. Practically, this declaration prejudges many things. I also believe that this composition of the commission, where representatives of the provinces enter, in some way violates this electoral will of citizens and that the citizens of Vojvodina are twice represented, and the government's participation could have been in some other form, not that it participates in counting votes practically within the constitutional commission. In some ways, it seems like a democratic decision is being made, but the composition of this commission and the composition of the constitutional commission guarantee the DOS an absolute majority; and, it raises a very serious question of the opposition's participation, whether we will be just a decor or whether our views and our proposals will be treated equally in the work of the constitutional commission. The Serbian Unity Party cannot support this text of the law, and its participation in the constitutional commission will later decide.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-08-0.u27932	The word is from MP Zoran Krasic, followed by MP Zoran Angelkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-08-0.u27933	As part of the first item of the agenda, today we are considering a bill that is not legally possible. He has no legal basis in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and a call for Article 65. The Constitutional Charter is not that legal basis, which gives us the opportunity to pass such a law, for one simple reason, which the Constitutional Charter indicates that a change is possible, or that a change in the existing constitution is necessary, or a possible adoption of a new constitution, and sets some deadline, but the Constitutional Charter does not define what you in the name of the law incorrectly stated to be called the way and procedure of changing the Constitution. This injury is followed by another very important and significant injury, which this law has even the wrong name. Obviously, someone who understands a little bit about constitutional matter wanted to make a combination of two separate concepts, something called procedure and what is the characteristic of some procedural rights and something called a way, which deeply affects freedom, the rights and duties of a man and a citizen. Because, especially with all our constitutions, the only way to achieve certain freedoms and rights can be regulated by law, and in this way, the creators of this bill prove to us that we are in the matter of sovereignty that belongs to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Since we are in this matter, we must then refer to the existing provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which are legally complete; these are those provisions that provide for self-protection of the constitution, as the highest legal act, from political adventure, indifference and any other changes that can cause instability and question the sovereignty of a state. That is why, in almost all constitutions, and you can look at constitutional systems, there are several books, say, ten similar constitutional systems in Europe, and you will see that these solutions, as offered by the Constitutional Charter and this law, are almost not possible, because they are not legally possible. So the wrong name of the law also gives the wrong content. The next error that occurs here is a request for efficiency. Excuse me, please, there's no such thing as efficiency in constitutional matter. The constitutions are adopted and amended by one procedure that needs to be stable, secure, which should be a guarantee that this constitution, as the highest legal act, will reflect the will, interests and demands of the highest number of citizens of the territory in which the highest legal act is to be applied. Therefore, all the constitutions contain a provision on a particularly qualified majority, or on the calling of special constitutional assemblies, which ad hoc do a very important job, as appropriate political preparations are carried out. Of course, in addition to this issue, there is no need for efficiency to comment on what some interpret as political and legal discontinuity. That, as stated in the reasoning of this bill, other than that it should not mean anything, is something that is devastating. Political and legal continuity, or in general, when you talk about something using those words -- politics and law, is deeply affected by the statehood of a nation and the statehood of a single space, so that whoever gives up in this way and uses it to deny continuity, practically claims something that is impossible. It would be about like Dusan Mihajlovic or Covic coming out of the assembly and saying -- we were never in power. Or, the child that a woman gave birth to, according to her age, she says, that mother didn't give birth to me, and everyone knows she gave birth to him. Of course, this intervention of mine is not about these faces, but just to point to the senselessness of certain things that are written and that remain for history. The next thing he should certainly deserve attention is the name of the future highest legal act - it's a constitutional declaration. From this, the promoter should abandon himself, for the simple reason that it does not correspond to our historical practice, and thus gives some meaning, that the NGO forms something that should not be so mandatory, but free and accessible to all. Most people do not need to be particularly waste of words, since the law requires most guarantees of seriousness, and the constitution must be a serious act.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-08-0.u27934	The word has been made by MP Zoran Angelkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-08-0.u27935	Ladies and gentlemen, today we have before us the Law on the way and procedure of changing the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. In fact, we are talking about how we will get to this law, and when on the agenda was a proposal for the composition of a commission that should work on a proposal on the way and procedure of changing the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. What we warned from this payphone at the time actually proved to be perfectly accurate and correct. We then warned that the Commission's draft composition prejudged the solution that would be in this assembly and that, in essence, the bill could already be discussed here, because when the Commission's video composition and the way it was formed, it knew what would actually be in the draft law, what solutions would be. There may be some nuances in that sense, but the essence was quite clear. At that time, we have already said that the Commission's proposal essentially creates a basis for a two-thirds majority in the commission, which should propose an appropriate solution, and to ensure that the ruling majority's views, or the works of the Government of Serbia, are absolutely acceptable here. It's basically right here in front of us today, and it's proved to be true in the work of the commission itself. I must say immediately that the problem was not correct in the work of the Commission, the relationship in the Commission was correct and I must be completely honest: I think that one tolerated atmosphere, and the chairman of the board and vice president and all the board members, was absolutely present, and it is not disputed. It's not about that, it's actually about political attitudes, as one of my predecessors here said, which up to one part of the Commission's work were treated in one way, and then, after a session of DOS politburo, in a completely different way. Until that session of the commission and until the meeting of the DOS presidency, the initiative was both a stance and Bosko Ristić, as a member of the Commission and a representative of the DOS, that he would not allow himself to be elected and adopted in the Assembly without a two-thirds majority, so that after the DoS session, all this was changed and were completely different political views. Basically, that brings you into one position -- do you participate in the work of such a committee, when you know the outcome, or not? That's where the reasons and differences are from what we've had our objections. Why I'm talking about the composition of the Commission that did this job - I'm talking about it right now because of Article 4. The same principle, the same substance is now proposed in this law, on the basis of which a constitutional commission should be formed. And, the new constitutional commission, or rather, the constitutional commission that is to propose the constitution of the Republic of Serbia, is thus formed to provide an absolute majority of DOS representatives, the two-thirds majority of DOS representatives in the constitutional commission. Namely, there was a proposal - first of all, 15 MPs, and I must express my satisfaction on behalf of Mr Obradovic and our own, that we have proposed to increase to 25. Okay, 20 has been accepted, the greater the presence, certainly, of MPs and representatives of the National Assembly in that commission. Of course, the government can also propose, as a separate body, but the essence is that this assembly chooses a constitutional commission, which proposes a constitution, starting primarily from the proportional representation of political parties in this parliament. I can be happy or dissatisfied with what the Serbian citizens gave the SPS, but with as much as they gave, the SPS should be participating in making a new constitution. From what is proposed here, it is obvious that it will not (no SPS, no other political party other than DOS) take part in the number of representatives in the constitutional commission, how much Serbian citizens have entrusted the parliamentary group or the political party to participate in the work of the constitutional commission. This is not just about representatives of Vojvodina and Kosovo, that they appear twice in the constitutional commission, but now, before we came to the draft constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the 1974 Constitution returns. The people asked for the constitution, not in a referendum, but in protests, on the street, to change and Serbia to unite again. Now, in fact, we are already installing these parts in this bill by having representatives of the Vojvodina Assembly and the Kosovo Assembly in the Commission itself, as well as representatives of the government. You know, if the government under the current constitution has the right to propose a constitution, which of course is not disputed, and it takes responsibility whether or not this constitution will pass in this assembly or not, and in the referendum, then there is no need for it to be presented in the Constitutional Commission. It is not good, that Professor Simonovic noted well, that the constitutional commission, and it will turn out so, because this commission is led by the minister of justice; it is not important that the minister of justice, not personally, but rather the principle, it is not good for a member of the government to lead the constitutional commission, and for the members of the government to be in the constitutional committee formed by the Assembly. In that sense, we were against that member. We have insisted that the constitutional commission has 25 members, that it be 10% of the number of MPs, that they be proportionally elected and that in this way they reflect the relationship of forces in the republican parliament, so that before today, in fact, the Assembly has prejudged, we have been relocated to the commission by obtaining one proposal of conclusions with an alternative -- whether there will be a constitutional declaration or a draft. It was logical to discuss the draft and to this day was an alternative, and today we lost that alternative and we got a constitutional declaration to be discussed here, and we won't discuss the draft. That's why I'm saying that the team before this Article 4 needs to be changed. When there are no amendments, it is necessary to discuss the draft constitution in the Serbian Parliament. Watch out, the constitutional commission that has been formed in this way has nine more members than is a proportion to the Assembly, which is 9:0; it is a real constitution, it sends the draft constitution to a constitutional debate, it provides support for citizens and then it brings that constitution and gives it to the Assembly to adopt it without amendments and that is the end, conditionally said, because the referendum is proposed as proposed, without amendments. (Pal Shandor, from the scene: but not on the street.) ) It is better on the street when the people accept and realize that this constitution is not good, because it will not pass this censorship in the referendum, it is quite certain, if this is how it is prepared. The MPs here are completely bypassed to participate in drawing up the highest act, which belongs to Serbian citizens. They bypass by not discussing the draft, which they do not have the right in any legal procedure, not in any domain of the constitution to give amendments, not at any time have the opportunity to discuss the constitution. They have the opportunity to discuss in principle the very proposal for a constitution, without amendments, and that's the end of the story. Then it was better that now, while the state of emergency is going on, Mrs Natasa Micic declares a new constitution, it is by law and by constitution possible, so that we can solve this problem, not try to make some detours that are completely out of the law. They are not outside the constitution, but outside of some normal democratic principles that exist in the world. Let us not, on the one hand, celebrate the entry into the Council of Europe, and that none of what in those democratic countries, members of the Council of Europe, works and is respected and applied as the principle of changing such acts as the constitution of a country, we do not apply in our country. Of course, we can do anything. And today, when we talk about the start of a change in the constitution, we talk at a closed session, at a secret session, at a secret dinner, but from day one it is necessary for all Serbian citizens to be informed about the constitution, to participate...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-08-0.u27936	People's MP, you're under obligation to give the truth. The National Assembly session isn't closed and it's no secret. You're confused with the previous constitutional process, this session is without direct transmission.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-08-0.u27937	The secret is that what we're talking about tonight will be nothing on any television channel, no radio station, no news agency. It'll be just what the government's attitudes are. In that sense, it is a secret, not in the sense that the decision has been made or has not been made. That thing's completely clear. When there is no public transmission, from what we read tomorrow in the paper, in fact, we will see that opposition attitudes will not be present as views related to this constitution. That's what I said. When it comes to the decision itself, you're absolutely right, and if that's how it's interpreted, I apologize. Therefore, for these reasons, we as SPS will not be able to support this law. That's what we said on this committee. Whether we will participate in this constitutional committee depends on all other political parties and we will decide on it.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-08-0.u27938	I set a break until 15.00 p.m., when the word has been given by MP Dragan Šormaz, followed by MP Petar Petrovic, in the follow-up of the afternoon session.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-08-0.u27939	Dear ladies and gentlemen, please insert identification cards to determine the quorum. I find that we have a quorum and we can continue the principle debate according to the application for the People's MPs' word on the draft law on the way and procedure of changing the Constitution. The People's MP Dragan Šormaz has the word, and the next one declared for the word is MP Petar Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-08-0.u27940	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia provides for a proposal for a change to the Constitution to be submitted by the President of the Republic, the Government, at least 50 MPs and at least 100,000 voters, and Article 132. The Constitution of Serbia. It means that the constitutional commission itself, by submitting this bill, has monopolised for itself the right to propose changes to the Constitution. She could have given us this bill of law by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, so she could be in front of the still valid Constitution somehow, to say so, cleaner everything. In any case, I will first talk about the very composition of the constitutional commission, which in itself reveals the intention of the executive authority to delineate Serbia's constitution, especially in that the National Assembly does not express the will of citizens in the last parliamentary elections held in December 2000. In the view of us from the DSS, about a little less than 10% of the MPs in this assembly are illegal. We have submitted a number of amendments, unfortunately, will not be accepted to discuss at all possible amendments by MPs to this bill. Our proposal was that the composition of the constitutional commission consisted of 20 MPs, i.e. representatives of all political parties sitting in parliament, and one representative of the government. The purpose of the rules under which the Government in this case has as many as three representatives in the Constitutional Commission cannot be the second to the wish of the legislator to assist the executive power in the pre-elected MPs in revoteing everyone else in the constitutional commission. The influence of the executive authority here serves to create a majority in the constitutional commission, and representatives of the executive should control the possible disagreement between representatives of the assembly majority in the constitutional commission by their vote. The motive of the legislator is not to improve the work of the constitutional commission, but to allow the executive authority to control its work. If the government wants control over the draft constitution, I repeat once again, it would be best if it itself proposed amendments to the Constitution or a new draft constitution. The introduction of MPs from the provinces' parliaments into the constitutional commission is, in our opinion, a purely confederalisation of its composition, a confederalisation that directly announces future constitutional status, even if Vojvodina, if not Kosovo itself, because we know that we are not asking ourselves much, because it is still in force in Resolution 1244. In addition, it also aims to strengthen the already created majority in the constitutional commission. I would remind myself of what some MPs have already said -- that all of Serbia is one electoral unit, that we have a large number of MPs from both Vojvodina and Kosovo in this composition. And we have no idea why the autonomous provinces of Vojvodina and Kosovo and Metohija would be particularly represented in this constitutional commission and privileged to all other parts of the Republic of Serbia. There are enough MPs from Vojvodina and we believe that they could contribute to their constructive work, that there was no need for some tutorship of the AP Vojvodina Assembly over them, so that they would know how to represent their opinions in the constitutional commission, without the presence of someone from the AP Assembly. According to the bill we received, the National Assembly adopts the Constitution by a majority of the total number of MPs (that is, Article 8. Proposal)...................................................................................................... with 126 MPs. This majority of votes are foreseen for the government's election, some have already said, for the resolution of a member of the government, of a minister or of a whole government, while a special two-thirds majority of the total number of MPs of the Constitution is prescribed to initiate the procedure called off by the President of the Republic (Article 88(2)). The Constitution of Serbia) and the adoption of an act amending the Constitution (Article 133(1)). The Constitution of Serbia). The fact that this was not respected is explained by the discontinuity. The constitution would be adopted by the same majority, meaning this way, if we adopt this bill, as the Prime Minister is elected and resolved by the government or the whole government, and by a smaller majority than the one initiating the procedure called off by the President of the Republic. On the other hand, I will remind you, and it is already said from this speaker, that the President of the Commission for the preparation of the draft law on the way and procedure of amending the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Vladan Batic, is a member of the Government, i.e. The minister of justice prepared a bill on the People's Lawyer, and this was delivered by the government to the National Assembly. Under the bill, a national lawyer is elected by a majority of two-thirds of the votes of the MPs, Article 24(1) of this proposal for a law on a national lawyer. All this tells us how much this proposal is to vote with 126 MPs to change the Constitution without meaning, because the Constitution is the highest legal act in the state and the whole legal order comes out of it. Hence, it is imperative that the Constitution be passed by the strongest majority of MPs in the National Assembly, i.e. Two-thirds majority. We of the DSS have been convinced, regardless of all the thorns and disagreements we have in this assembly for almost two years, that, in order to change the Constitution, with one serious work of the constitutional commission, we would provide a two-thirds majority and we would not be hit by an expert public because of what we are doing today. Lawmakers believe that there is a need to create discontinuity with the current procedure of changing Serbia's constitution, but it is not achieved by prescribing the same majority as for the resolution of ministers, nor by a referendum where a quarter of the electoral body's vote is needed in order for the constitution to be confirmed, Article 9. It's a bill of law. For example, we could have dyscontinuity if we really wanted it, and in the elections for a constitutional assembly. We could discuss elections for a constitutional assembly, then from empty paper to the assembly, the kind of voters they want at the moment, with our own proposals on how to make a new constitution; then we would have the legitimacy in that assembly to bring a new constitution. The absence of the majority of votes required by the MPs is replaced by the provision under which the Constitution that the National Assembly votes is bound by a referendum, and the Constitution is confirmed by a quarter of the voters in Serbia, paragraphs 2 and 3 of Article 9. The bill's proposal, and that quarter is to come out 50% plus one voter and half of that number votes to change the constitution. The quarter should support the weak and insufficient majority foreseen for the adoption of the Constitution in the Assembly and give it legitimacy. But will such a referendum give him legitimacy? I would remind particularly the professional people sitting on this committee, some of them going out for a pay phone, that for the most ordinary rural self-dependence, according to the applicable legal acts and laws, it takes 50% plus one local and the local community and half of that number to decide to introduce themselves in the village and to pave the way for a street, or to raise money for the build-up of field roads. If we really feel that the same percentage of people is sufficient to make a statement about the highest legal act, as is necessary for ordinary rural self-dependence, it seems to me that everyone who has proposed such a bill has little to do with the law, has little to do with the state, does not have much responsibility in front of the people and the state for what they are doing and everything they are doing only for one single political reason, and this is a delay in calling extraordinary parliamentary elections and retaining executive power, as is possible, for as long as possible. Nothing else is the motive of a bill like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-08-0.u27941	The word has a National MP, Petar Petrovic. The next to be reported is the MP of the people, Milorad Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-08-0.u27942	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, for the Party of Serbian Unity, it is not disputed that the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia should be changed. We believe that they have matured politically, economically, and all other conditions for the change of the Constitution. However, the Serbian Unity Party will not support the proposed law on the way and procedure of changing the Constitution for one single and basic reason, which is in direct contrast with the article. 132, 133 and 134. of the existing and valid Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. In order to be recognized as a country, as we want to be, in a democratic world, we need to respect one legal and constitutional procedure for changing each act, and also to change the highest legal act of a state, the Republic Constitution. It is interesting for the Serbian Unity Party that most in this parliament are always called to the Constitution when it meets and applies certain provisions of the existing and valid Constitution of the Republic of Serbia when it is in the interest to adopt a regulation, some law and some other general act. However, when we need to change the Constitution, as the highest legal act of the state, then it is not important that we have to comply with the procedure of the members that I have stated and to change that constitution in the way that is provided for in Article. 132 to 134. The Constitution. The Serbian Unity Party believes that it is not good to change the Constitution in a proposed way; if we go back a little bit, let us see that in this majority, which should vote this law, which provides for the way and procedure of changing the Constitution, of 126 or I do not know how many MPs, a good part of these MPs does not have the legitimacy to be in this assembly; we know in which way they remain MPs, because certain provisions of the Law on the selection of MPs are not respected. On the other hand, the Serbian Unity Party believes it could have changed the Constitution in the way the article is intended. 132 to 134 and to reach a full party consensus on the change of the Constitution, by voting with a two-thirds majority in this House a new draft constitution and referring to a statement by citizens of the Republic of Serbia in the referendum, also as provided for in Article 133. The constitution that more than half of the voters enrolled, i.e. that confidence in a proposal adopted by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, is thus accepted. The question arises as to how long and how long the future constitution will apply, adopted in this House by 126 MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and in the referendum, provided 50% plus one voter is registered, 25% plus one voter out. Does this mean that every next government, every next parliament will change the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia? Ladies and gentlemen, let us once look like a serious democratic state, to bring the constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which will also apply to future generations and not just from election to election. Let us imitate those highly developed democratic countries, which have not changed their constitutions for years, and we are constantly calling for that. I, to be honest, as a member of the Serbian Unity Party and a graduate lawyer, am very sorry to see that some professors of law school, doctors of science, etc., acknowledge in this country and outside this country, try to explain something that cannot be explained, which has neither legal logic nor legal basis. Is it possible to explain that the new constitution is brought by breaking the existing Constitution? It is, gentlemen, but we must respect it, in order to be a country that will be recognized, as we wish to be. Ladies and gentlemen, for this and many other reasons, the Serbian Unity Party cannot give a favourable assessment of the proposed law and we will vote against, because we want Serbia to get a modern constitution, which will be long, long in place, no matter who is in power.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-08-0.u27943	National MP Petar Petrovic took advantage of the time of the Serb Unity Party's parliamentary group, after another one was declared. The word is made by the People's Messenger Milorad Mircic. The next one registered for the word is Toma Bushetic. Serbian Radical Party - 22 minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-08-0.u27944	Change the constitution or constitutional arrangement of any serious state accessing the moment when real reasons arise. The real reasons set out here by the assembly majority are that the existing constitution is, or as most say the previous constitution brought by Slobodan Milosevic and therefore the constitution is not right, which is why it needs to be changed. The second real reason for the congregation’s majority is the fact that the Constitutional Charter was adopted and is binding. Let's see how realistic these are? We agree, we Serbian radicals, that some things should be changed in the existing constitution. Time has shown and proved some things are not clearly defined in the Constitution, that some things need to be complemented, some to be corrected, but they are done in a regular and common way already seen in the world, in the rule of law, and that is by means of constitutional amendments. To our question, what was wrong, gentlemen, in this, as you say, Milosevic's Constitution, no one knows how to say what was wrong. It's just bad that it was passed in the previous regime. During the post-revolutionary period, changes occur in every country. Every country has access to change. These changes, in principle, or in their essence, need to carry something positive. These changes that take place after the Friday revolution are getting worse and worse and worse for Serbia. In the end, it ends by wanting to bring a new constitution at all costs. What are the real reasons for that -- no one here in this room, of course, of the congregation's majority, can make any argument. We all know, more or less, what's behind it. That is one of the crucial reasons for the parliamentary majority, the election of the president of Serbia, for example; that is one of the crucial reasons why you like to quote it. Whether Serbia's president, instead of being directly elected in a direct manner so far, in the assembly, should define the constitution. You could have changed that, gentlemen, no one would have minded you. As for this second reason, which is stated by the congregation majority, it is the Constitutional Charter. What is your obligation to come from the Constitutional Charter? You violated that constitutional charter immediately. When the Council of Ministers was formed, you made it clear to the public that the Constitutional Charter is not binding on you. The Constitutional Charter declared that the defence minister and foreign minister cannot be from the same member of Serbia-Montenegro's alliance. You did it. What you said -- we agreed; as some ministers here say, they're moving two informal groups, Milova and this other one, and they agreed. And what does the Constitutional Charter mean to you? Now you insist on that constitutional charter. Do you care so much, in six months, that you honor the Constitutional Charter that you first violated? What we Serbian radicals resent is that the constitution, apart from reflecting the regulation of a state, which regulates the legal order in that country and a number of things, contains in some way the development of democracy, especially in the ruling, this time, coalition. That constitution will be a clue to how and how you, gentlemen, ruled. You at first throw that democracy aside, step on that democracy, because the bill does not allow a democratic debate to be conducted in this assembly. You don't even allow amendments to intervene. What kind of democracy is that? What do you expect from such a "democratic" constitution? Nothing but to be restrictive and to be in your favor. We, gentlemen, advise you on one thing. No matter how much you respect individual political parties, you must respect the votes that have won these political parties in the previous elections. Clear picture. If you don't understand anything, then your idea of leadership should be the last choices that have been held. Your candidate, who was supported by the entire DOS, (I am talking about DOS reform), was unable to meet the law of the prescribed conditions, not even 50% of the citizens came out. On what basis do you think 50% of the citizens will come out if certain political parties and parties are not represented in the creation of this constitution? Of course those political parties will call on their sympathies, their voters to boycott your referendum. Should we share Serbia with you and Serbia who is against you in the adoption of the constitution? You've already done that, gentlemen. It's getting to you. In your mind, gentlemen, this is still something you'll have to be ashamed of or proud of.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-08-0.u27945	The People's Messenger, Toma Bushetić, has the word, and the next is the Messenger of the people, George Mamul.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-08-0.u27946	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, after a great deal of announcements and rumors about the need to change the existing constitution, today we are discussing the law on the way and procedure of changing the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, without having any more serious word or argument as to why this constitution is changing. It is mainly said that it is a constitution from a single-party system, that the constitution is related to the former regime and that unsustainable provisions are related to social property. My colleagues from the SRS have disputed both the name and content of this law, and I agree with them on that matter. I'd like to stay first of all on the content of the proposed law. He's unacceptable to us, so to speak, at all points. When it comes to the commission itself, the composition of the commission, it is unacceptable that representatives of the government, MEPs from Vojvodina, Kosovo and Metohija enter the commission. Simply, they are all already contained in the existing majority, when it comes to the government, most of them DOS. Representatives of Vojvodina and Kosovo also have representatives here in the republic's parliament. Perhaps the only right solution is to find places in addition to this parliamentary commission and for experts, because we in Serbia have them; and if you were willing to hire experts for some small laws, it was certainly also an obligation for this most significant political and legal document that a single state brings. The public debate itself, though seemingly insignificant, from 45 days to 15 June to 1 August, clearly states that there are no serious intentions here to hold a real and serious debate on such a large issue. Someone said the referendum was necessary, but as a previous statement. Really, there are big questions here. Some colleagues talked about it. What big questions are these? It is a state-run arrangement, the election of the president of Serbia and the territorial organisation. When it comes to state planning, we have two pledges: for the monarchy and for the Republic, although it is quite clear that the monarchy is an anachronous solution and that only the countries that come into total hopelessness, and economically and socially, are committed to such a solution, the return of the king and the monarchy. We know what these results are. On the other hand, in this thin majority of DOS, we have a variety of bets. Some are for the monarchy, and some are for the Republic. The election of Serbia's president is also a major issue, as it is certain that a legal solution is the direct choice of president, but given that there are a large number of parties in the DOS, parties that do not have the right candidates for Serbian president, will be defined here by the slim majority to elect a president in parliament. When it comes to the territorial organization itself, there will be a lot of problems. We have different concerns about the regionalisation of Serbia or the territorial organisation, in terms of asymmetric decentralisation. It'll all turn out at the end of the line. The best solution was the current solution, meaning a unique Serbia with its districts; the districts have confirmed the correctness of such a policy and such a solution. The question is how will this thin majority of DOS solve some other issues, which seem to seem irrelevant, such as an anthem, flag. Today, at the level of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, a question arises -- what will be the flag. Montenegrins say it should be blue, and currently Serbia's majority says it should be blue. Who's gonna make the right deal? With all this in mind, given that DOS is a conglomerate and a monarchist, and a mondialist, and a neocommunist, and liberals and various autonomists, I don't think we'll find any solution to all these big questions that you, or Professor Lilic, have drawn and spoken in the means of public information. This adoption of the constitution is unacceptable to us. A qualified, or two-thirds majority is the right solution, because that is the only way to achieve true consent. So, with 126 MPs, it turns out that we're bringing the constitution into the same system as when it's being brought in, for example. Budget law or like when one Serbian government minister is elected. It's not the same and sure it's not the same. All in all, the adoption of the constitution in this way -- with 126 MPs, with 25% voter support, which is about a million and 600,000 voters in conditions where Serbia has six and a half million voters -- is a completely unserious thing. And, it's quite certain, this constitution won't last a while, it'll take a very short while. On the other hand, the constitution established in this way, I deeply believe, will be, with these actors, similar to the 1974 constitution, when Serbia was broken. The SPS won't vote for this bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-08-0.u27947	The word has a People's MP, Djordje Mamula, and the next declared word is MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-08-0.u27948	This bill shows a crisis of society, morality, institution. One of the members that deserves attention, Article 4, says there will be three members of the constitutional commission of the government of the Republic of Serbia, proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Following a statement by Prime Minister Zoran Zivkovic that the National Bank of Serbia does not exist and that false money is being printed, I wonder what the representatives of the Serbian government are even looking for in this assembly in the first row. I have nothing against you, Mr Sabic, nor against Mr Jovanovic, nor against Mr Batic, but how constitutional principles will be defended when it is claimed there is no constitutional category such as the National Bank of Serbia. Mr. Dinkic had different attitudes. What's in the middle? Who's right? If you couldn't understand, I can't help you, as far as the subject is concerned. It is also said in Article 4 - when proposing its candidates for the Constitutional Commission, all the proposings will take care of equal national representation. Of all equality, only national ones have been elected, and the Constitutional Charter, the Charter of Human Rights and the Constitution of Serbia recognise more equality. We asked representatives of religious communities what they think about why religious equality is not taken into account, and they say they are not surprised by such a proposal, because a government that does not return the property of religious communities cannot even defend the equality of religion. In addition, one is equality given political and other confidence. The whole DOS has been admitted to the Socialist International, the Serbian government is socialist, and if this is collected, what will be the equality of those who do not share the political beliefs of the DOS or the Serbian government. Next is gender equality. I expected that some women MPs would point out this, since over the past few months have been constantly teaching that women have been neglected. But the most interesting thing was the opinion of a representative of the religious community who said -- if religious equality were respected, there could be no constitution. That's something to think about, and that's why I think this bill should be withdrawn, arranged with the Constitutional Charter, the Charter of Human Rights, which was voted unanimously and only then to be re-arranged before this assembly. I apologize to those who couldn't understand my words.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-08-0.u27949	The word has the People's MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic, and the next declared word is MP Djura Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-08-0.u27950	Ladies and gentlemen, I listened to Minister Batic today who said that the Law on the way and procedure of the change of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, education, composition and way of work of the commission tasked with drawing up the text of the constitution, only implementing a public debate on the draft constitution and then a referendum on the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia will be arranged so that it will meet the most European standards and that in one democratic, extremely regular way we will come to a new constitution of the Republic of Serbia. It speaks of high standards at the time when laws can be proposed which can be extended to 270 days, when preventive detention can be introduced, when it is possible to make changes with the number of MPs that do not correspond to the real election will of citizens, when ministers, including the Prime Minister himself, are racing who will bring charges and verdicts for alleged crimes, before they begin, and just jobs that have been completed, judicial proceedings. We're talking about high-ranking tenants at the moment when the Prime Minister accuses the governor of being a counterfeiter of money, and this one returns to sue him for insult and slander. We are talking about high standards at a time when amendments are forbidden to be submitted to legislation, when it must be adopted in principle - take it or leave it. Today, according to the Serbian Radical Party, it is much harder to elect the president of the municipality in Vlasotinc, Ub, in a small town than the way in which a new constitution of the Republic of Serbia will be adopted. We from the Serbian Radical Party believe that there must be a consensus, that there must be a goodwill and agreement between all political parties and all MPs in the Serbian parliament, and therefore the Serbian citizens who have chosen their representatives from those political parties to whom they have entrusted their votes. It's the only way to achieve harmony and peace in this Serbia of ours. This isn't about some law we can change every few months. It's not about excise duties and taxes that we're going to collect in proportion to the need of the state budget, sometimes higher, and sometimes less. In the end, this country is not a local community that we can play with the highest legal act of this country. We think that this constitution should be brought in so that it lasts for decades, that it lasts for centuries, that it changes hard and in the way that the constitution of developed states is changed, as the American constitution that lasts from the formation of the United States of America changes. Regardless of what you're trying to bring with 126 MPs, it's not legal either, because we know that there are some MPs sitting here who are not, whose mandate has long stopped and who, to respect the law and the Constitution of this country, would not sit here but in some subsequent elections would try happiness, form their political parties, expose their programmes to the public and perhaps get a number of mandates. We think that in a way proposed by the Serbian Radical Party, each parliamentary group proposes two representatives in this commission and that the president of that committee be the president of the National Assembly, it is possible to adopt this bill by a two-thirds majority in parliament, that the text of the constitution, which will be proposed in a referendum, be adopted in such a way, and that all political parties can then call on voters who would go to the referendum and probably, with more than 50% of the votes, that referendum would be accepted in Serbia. Until then, ladies and gentlemen, Europe will move on, everything will move on, it will seek to improve the standard of its citizens, to come to a variety of improvements in the lives of its citizens, and Serbs will bring and change the constitutions. Each next government, each next parliamentary majority will try to undo what is by force, without arguments brought by the previous government and the previous parliamentary majority. After all, if we change the highest legal act of the state in this way, something that will base the laws and all that is arranged in one country, who will take us more seriously in the world. It will no longer be of any help to us by giving some help in the past few months, etc. We have to work alone and we have to do everything we can to make the world take us seriously. In that sense, I say and repeat what the predecessors of the Serbian Radical Party said; the Serbian Radical Party cannot support such a bill in this way and we will vote against it.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-08-0.u27951	The word has the People's MP Đura Lazic, and next reported is MP Milan Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-08-0.u27952	The Honorable Presidency, Mr Minister, colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, is the change of the constitution is the most serious political-legal issue, because it is not in my opinion, as well as the opinion of many colleagues, for the daily-political needs, but rather a permanent act of a state to which all legal acts, regulations, and the statutes of municipalities, provinces and so on should be added. That's why this issue is extremely serious and it doesn't need to be over it so quickly. In doing so, it is necessary to take account of the consistent application of constitutional provisions when determining the procedure and way of amending and supplementing this highest legal act. The proposal for a constitutional declaration seems to me not only devalue the Constitution, as the highest legal act, but the way to a new decommissioning of Serbia's highest act. This proposal, under the discontinuity layer, applies methods that, I'm afraid, will inevitably lead to a sectrossed constitution, and that, we all have to admit, is not democratic. More colleagues have potentiated here, and I particularly share the opinion of Professor Simonovic, the MP, that a more serious consensus of parliamentary parties could be reached by a quality solution and the security of the two-thirds majority in this parliament for the adoption of the new text of the constitution, which would not violate the constitutional provision on how to amend the constitution, and in this way we would really do a serious undertaking and make one act that we would not often, on any change of government, have to change. It is particularly a matter of referendum, which is foreseen in this bill. This proposal also violates the provisions of the Constitution on how to amend the Constitution, as the provisions of Articles 2 and 3 of this proposal could read and adopt the constitution with the votes of a quarter of the total number of voters in the Republic of Serbia. I don't think that's right. When it comes to the referendum, I would like to stress in particular that no matter how much pressures and other warrants of some representing themselves as guardians of democracy in Kosovo and Metohija, at no cost should we leave the citizens of Kosovo and Metohija out of the referendum. Because I claim that there are a large number of citizens in Kosovo and Metohija, not only Serbs, Roma and other non-Albanians, but also a significant number of Shiparas, who would also go out for a referendum if they were allowed to free, without fear of consequences, vote and commit themselves to one such act. Also, I think the constitutional commission should start with more serious work. First, most importantly, it is necessary to determine what is wrong with this existing constitution, whether Article 1. The constitution, which evens all citizens of this country, does not share them on any basis, does this current constitution not work because it particularly regulates the status of autonomous provinces? You should see what's wrong with that. If the issue of centralisation is wrong, we have seen that through a certain law on decentralisation, on the transfer of competence to municipalities and districts, and how the existing constitution can be improved. That is why I think that with more careful work, the Constitutional Commission could, with some consensus, give a valid proposal and an acceptable solution, which would provide a two-thirds majority in this House; and, of course, this would reflect a greater citizens' exit to the referendum on this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-08-0.u27953	The word has a National MP Milan Radulovic (not present). The word is made by Parliamentarian Milovan Radovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-08-0.u27954	Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, it is not disputed that the parliamentary majority is expressing its wish, its will to create discontinuity regardless of whether it is political or legal discontinuity, but when we talk about legal discontinuity, it should be said that it is a very serious matter, because the legal order of a country, no matter what time it is, represents one normative wealth, normative treasure, which every civilization and every state and government should guard. The problem here is that the violation of the SRJ Constitution has led to, conditionally speaking, the adoption of the Constitutional Charter, and on the basis of this Constitutional Charter a certain group of people, whether it is a formally elected group of people, it is not known to me personally, but it is called the Commission to prepare the law on the way and procedure of amending the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia - I assume that the commission was formed by the National Assembly. If there is a legal relationship and a legal basis in Article 65. The Constitutional Charter to submit to the Serbian Assembly a proposal to amend the Constitution of Serbia, and if this link is established in a problematic, suspicious form, then I ask the question - where is the right to present in its proposal to the National Assembly the text of a change in the Constitution that is in direct contrast and violates the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. If we are already amending one legal act, we recognise and show that it exists, that it is a positive regulation, that it is applied, and by this proposal directly the Commission, in the text it has submitted, violates the provisions of Article. 132 and 134. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Article 132. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia has been taxed by persons, i.e. bodies who can be the submissions of the proposal to change Serbia's Constitution. Following this, we come to the conclusion that the Commission is an unauthorized proponent of the proposal to amend the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia to prepare the law on the way and procedure of changing the Constitution of Serbia. Furthermore, in a proposal for this law and text, it is in some parts contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, where it is proposed to adopt the constitution, of course after a certain procedure, most MPs in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia provides for it to be a two-thirds majority. In what sense did Mr Stevan Lilic, who exhibited here as the applicant of the Committee's report, say that some future constitution could contain the two-thirds majority envisaged for his further change. This legal discontinuity is very dangerous in this sense. What if some future government, regardless of which one it was, thinks the same as Mr. Stevan Liliæ, that it "relocates the ball" and its responsibility to one there third, the next power, which can introduce a provision that then the current constitution changes in the Serbian Parliament by two-thirds majority. It also acknowledges that there is now a serious flaw and a lack, that all these provisions are changed by a simple, simple majority. In what sense do the conclusions of the Commission and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs prejudge the possible non-participation of individual parliamentary groups in proposing members of the Commission; in what sense the members of the future constitutional commission should be from the Parliament of Kosovo and Metohija, including Vojvodina, when we have the fact that certain political groups gave Kosovo and Metohija legitimacy in their efforts to separate themselves from Serbia, now the state union of Serbia-Montenegro in 2001 and 2002. In my personal opinion, it is absolutely no matter whether the Assembly of Kosovo determines by majority three or already how many members of the constitutional commission, or the parliamentary group "Return", or DOS-Reform, or DOS-DSS, it is absolutely whatever, because they stand in the same positions of the ideology of political globalism. In a political sense, it is absolutely no matter whether there will be one, the other or the third. The right of MPs to submit amendments is denied. This deprives the freedoms and rights guaranteed by the Constitution, which is also, in this sense, restricting the rights of MPs to constitutional and legal work and activities.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-08-0.u27955	The word has been given by MP Joca Arsic, followed by National MP Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-08-0.u27956	Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, I don't understand why this need for such haste. It is a very serious issue, and if what is important in this country, I think that the Constitution and the change of the Constitution is the most important thing, because from it everything that is going to happen in citizens' rights, in legal acts and in what will mean political, economic and social life in this country. If someone doesn't understand, it's already his problem. I think we have approached this business in one way that is not appropriate, is not correct, is not in agreement with the Constitutional Charter or with the current Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. All that is done and changed in a way that is not in agreement with the highest legal acts in one country, I don't think it will bring a quality and good solution. Why am I saying this? First of all, this is where they call for article 65. The Constitutional Charter, which speaks of discontinuity and speaks only of a time period during which the constitution of the member states of the community of Serbia-Montenegro must be brought into line. There's nothing else out there that can't be made out of it. We have here formed a committee to adopt laws on the accession to the amendment of the Constitution, in a way that was the will of the majority, and not taken into account the opinions and views of other political parties and other political options that make up this assembly. The main observation of the Socialist Party is that a real team in the future commission on the constitution should be the Serbian Parliament and the relationship of forces in it. I think there's been a lot of talk about it, and I think that's the solution, I want to repeat, the most pathetic and the best, that it's one-tenth of the number of MPs in the Assembly and that it reflects exactly what the parliamentary groups make up in this assembly. I don't understand why he insists that we keep looking and we want to prove that Kosovo is an integral part of Serbia and that Vojvodina is an integral part of Serbia. They are, and others are admitting it to us. They were suspended there temporarily, but they are part of Serbia. There are MPs here from Kosovo. We won't say they're not MPs. They reflect the will and desire of the Kosovo electorate, of course, who wanted to participate in the elections. The other one she didn't want, which she didn't recognise and didn't want to recognise this country, I think the day -- today she doesn't want to admit it and she's trying to leave, which she shouldn't be involved in this part of achieving interest in the state of Serbia. We also have other environments that have abstinent in the elections, so we have not punished them by not participating and that MPs from these backgrounds will not be valid. It's not just part of Serbia called Kosovo and Metohija. I don't think these arguments are good enough and they won't bring anything of quality. The most important thing is mentioned here, and that is the general consensus for the adoption of the constitution, besides that it must be brought in a constitutional and legal way. The second is a political consensus. If there is no political consensus in establishing a constitution and seeking constitutional solutions here in parliament, in the commission, if we have to be just an organ that will confirm what a group of people bring, then there will be no such thing. Who will lead the political action on the ground, who will call on voters to come to the referendum, vote not only to go out, but also to vote on the act that should be a general political consensus in this country. If we cannot find a common language and agree on this issue in this country, I do not know what is the most important issue of this congregation to discuss and discuss, if not the issue of the constitution. If there's no consensus, then this job has nothing to do with it. We continue to be followed by divisions and political differences, from someone calling for whether this form will be Republican or monarchist, to other issues, property issues, economic relations issues, human rights issues. The existing constitution covers all human rights that are determined by all European statutes. I think the legal solutions that will arise these days will violate some of the key human rights provisions. There are even objections from the positioning parties and amendments to the solutions given in the proposed laws that will be the subject of debate at other points, which are contrary to basic human rights provisions. We were admitted to the Council of Europe the other day. We'll be admitted when the others want us to. Our wish will be latent, but we will not decide. In the end, let me remind those who have advocated the monarchist way of regulating this country that we will also have a problem if this people choose to do so. We'll have a problem, because we don't have a dynasty for now. Our dynasty has given up its right to the throne, this previous one. We would have to reorganize some form of election or referendum, to determine who this monarch is to lead this country.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-08-0.u27957	The word is a folk letter from Natasa Jovanovic, followed by Parliament MP Branko Ruzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-08-0.u27958	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it would be good for him to come back to the door right now, Prime Minister Vladan Batic, to come out for the Assembly's pay phone and tell us - first of all, because of us serious people, members of the SRS, all others who oppose such a radical legislative project for the change of the Constitution, and most of all because of the citizens of Serbia who are in complete blockade and cannot follow what's going on here -- that it's a first-rate joke. What the so-called Law on the way and procedure of the change of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia referred us to. The Commission for the Amendment of the Constitution was made on 1 April. It would be good if, unfortunately, both the political reality and the words we heard today by both the minister and the professor with the suspicious credibility of Stevan Lilić (which we have written a lot and talked about and met the public) were at the very least sad. You know, for people who aren't lawyers and who don't want and can't pretend to be legal experts, it's sad when someone who says to themselves is a legal expert shows up, and then comes out with a claim that they're proud of the fact that constitutional discontinuity is being created. One logical question arises, namely, is today even necessary to conduct this barren debate. That's not necessary, because you're nervous, you can barely listen, you're irritated, here, and when I speak and when other representatives of the SRS and representatives of opposition parties speak. But why didn't you in the text of the declaration in the way you provided for this law, before the MPs served the text of the declaration and to simply vote on it. So, you've brought the only legitimate political representatives of the people, the MPs to the point that they have to go a thousand times to tell you that not only are you not Democrats, but you've seduced the open dictatorship today in the country. And not only do you not give us the opportunity to use the current Constitution, but you are proud of it when you say that the Constitution is not the Holy Scriptures; it is true, the Constitution is not the Holy Scriptures, the Holy Scriptures is not changing, and the Constitution is changing. But one of you, gentlemen of the DOS, would have had to, and if it weren't for your experts on state television and other central televisions that are under Vesic and Baby's control, and they appear on round tables and talk about the need for the Constitution to change and that it should be brought as soon as possible. However, it is also the manner of Vojislav Kostunica, who has been repeating as a broken record since 2000 that the Constitution must change, and then tells us exactly him, as the people of the so-called so-called. The Belgrade Centre for Human Rights that they are in favour of achieving an overall public consensus, which clearly does not exist here, because you do not have the consent of a vast number of opposition MPs to change the Constitution in this way. On the other hand, he and the Belgrade Centre for Human Rights say that they, I will now quote to you "are located in the typical border of the regional and federal state" and that is where the danger lies, and what in the most part will be such a constitutional project and concept to accept this rest of the DOS, the danger of survival and the fate of the people, both in the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia, and above all I mean the autonomous provinces. If you had reason and you wanted to listen to what we are telling you, who represent 1,100,000 voters right now, and that number can only be bigger and bigger, that you wanted the listeners to change it in the Constitution, because 99% of the present MPs certainly do not want to know about it or to think rationally, then you would consider the fact that something that is social property and what is the rest of the brooch and cardio (although there are many Broz's ideological children here) should certainly be erased from the current Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. What is a monopoly on building land should also be deleted and, of course, we agree that Serbia's coat of arms and anthems change. However, this is how you have the situation of a very unstable one, although you want to show it in another way, the political situation in the country, you have the fact that this assembly is illegal and that the Constitution will be changed with 20 Serbian citizens; well, then let me invite some from Kragujevac, about 20, will invite Steve from Somboro, Gordan from Zemun and to come to citizens here, such as 20 citizens, illegal MPs, present and thus change the Constitution. No, we will strongly oppose it, and if at the same time when parliamentary elections are held, and we need it as soon as possible, this referendum, as Batic said, I must quote it, "by the highest European standards", the SRS, with over a million voters who, I believe, will be more and more, will call on the citizens of Serbia to take into their own hands the ballot and vote for the SRS candidate list, but not to vote in favour of a referendum on such a radical way of changing what is sacred to anyone who holds to the legal democratic principles and to the establishment of the state, where such democratic authority will be strictly divided and organised, which will respect both this institution and above all political representatives of the people, the MPs. I thank the MPs who support this attitude.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-08-0.u27959	The word has a folk MP Branko Ruzic, followed by MP Dragan Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-08-0.u27960	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, a legislative proposal on the way and procedure of changing the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia in my humble opinion merits the attention of the general public, all citizens whose standard of living, level of human rights, stability and trust in democratic institutions will depend heavily on all the provisions of the highest legal act of our country. It is unnatural that the positional and opposition views in the proposed legal solution, Serbian citizens, do not have the opportunity to hear. Does this mean that there will be no provisions in the new constitution that define free and public access to information? If TV transmissions of assembly sessions are placed in the wider context of the imposed emergency situation and its abolition also contributes to the fight against crime, otherwise you have the support of all relevant political factors, including the Socialist Party of Serbia, then we support such restrictions in informing citizens, but it is hardly possible to defend such a burden by rational reasons, not insulting the intelligence of the average citizen of Serbia. Political relativity and the fact that the adopted Constitutional Charter and the accompanying act imposes the need for the adoption of a constitution within clearly defined deadlines are not an excuse to advance the way and procedure of adoption, and consequently, in the large part, the draft constitution itself, are reduced to a mere reflection of the political interest of the ruling illegal majority. In order for the proposed constitutional commission to have importance, specific weight and legitimacy, I think it would be good and politically rational to support by its vote the two-thirds majority of the assembly, for the simple reason that we all know that the weighted 127 MPs, 10 of whom have been appointed by the executive authority by usurpation of the mandate, cannot mean giving legitimacy to the proposed constitutional commission to work on a very serious job. The proposed principle of assembling a constitutional commission is also very problematic. It is not clear for what reason the Government, which has the authority to propose a certain draft constitution itself, should have representatives in the commission at all, why double representation of the interests of the autonomous provinces of Vojvodina and Kosovo and Metohija through MPs from the congregations of these two Serb provinces is necessary, when in the current composition of the Republic of Serbia's Assembly, we have MPs as holders of the People's Legislatives, members of all the political options elected at the polling stations in Vojvodina and Kosovo and Metohija. You should also respect the fact that Serbia was one electoral unit. As for 20 MPs from the Republic of Serbia's Assembly, it should be specified that MPs are entering the constitutional commission in proportion to the representation of their political parties, but only those political parties that participated in the December 2000 elections. As far as the public debate is concerned, it is an exclusive right of the constitutional commission, and in these 45 days of public debate, the Serbian Parliament as the Supreme and Legislative Authority remains on the sidelines and there is no possibility of an active role in creating a better constitutional solution. All points out that it is going to fund public debates, disabling MPs from making their constructive contribution to making a better and better constitutional solution, as well as the adoption of the draft with the help of the voting machine, and will be a political opportunist exclusively for the ruling structures. In addition to all these shortcomings, the proponent runs away from the two-thirds majority in parliament, and it would have to adopt a constitution and thus stand behind the highest legal act on the referendum to confirm. As for the census and the majority needed for the referendum to succeed, it is something that is caused by the dynamics and current political reality, so that for such a principle of confirmation of the constitution in the referendum we can have understanding. Also, the proponent calls for legal and political discontinuity compared to the 1990 Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, forgetting that the DOS coalition had just come to power in accordance with the provisions of the constitution, that a host of laws had been passed by Serbian citizens, and in their arguments the foothold was the very constitution and its provisions. If you are so principled and do not want to be a political relapse of the 1990 Constitution, issue elections in parallel with the referendum. In this way, the situation on the political scene would be somewhat distasteful, and you would be an expression of discontinuity. The proposal to avoid amendments to this law, in order to allegedly protect "the democratic principle of respecting the opposite opinion, given the possibility of voting against", speaks of the ignorance of the author of the note that goes with this legislative proposal. The amendment procedure could be very serious about this proposal and raise it to the level necessary for the job that is subject to this law. Finally, it remains unclear what the promoter wants by giving an option of choice between the draft constitution and the constitutional declaration, because, if it is a need for assembling political profits at a projected political moment, the question of making a constitution is certainly not a question of who might it be. Writing the constitution is a very serious job and should not begin to make a constructive mistake. Until the vote on this legislative proposal is too late to change your angle of observation of this issue and respect the really well-intentioned criticisms and constructive proposals of the Socialist Party of Serbia MPs and other opposition parties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-08-0.u27961	The word has been given by MP Dragan Lazic, followed by MP Dragisa Djokovic, and he is the last registered speaker on the list registered for the word in the principled search.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-08-0.u27962	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, has mostly been said. Democratic Party of Serbia MPs will not vote for this bill, as said by the head of our parliamentary club, Mr. Mihajlov. I would refer to one of the points of the report of the Constitutional Affairs Committee, to accept the candidacy of one member of the Return Coalition, unless the Autonomous Region Assembly of Kosovo and Metohija proposes its candidates in accordance with Article 4(1) of the first indent of Article 4. It's a bill of law. It is illogical because I think that many MPs before me have pointed out that it simply violates the electoral will of Serbian citizens, because the 2000 electoral system of Serbia was one electoral unit, and thus, it is foreseen that everyone from both Kosovo and Metohija and Vojvodina are represented in the republican parliament. If that were to be done, then flagrantly, the electoral will of the citizens would be violated. If something had already been thought of, then it should have been suggested much earlier, as a gesture of goodwill, that Albanians be left with one space in the Serbian Parliament, possibly in the Serbia-Montenegro Community Assembly. Resolution 1244 does not normally mention Serbia, but the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, under whose authority Kosovo and Metohija are. If the Constitutional Charter of the Community of Serbia-Montenegro is looked at, it can be seen that in the case of a referendum and the separation of Montenegro from the Serbia-Montenegro community, the only country that inherits continuity and, when it comes to Kosovo and Metohija, and subjectivity, is Serbia. In this case, no thought was given. I think this is a dust drop, no matter what it might be good for someone from the Return Coalition to be on the constitutional committee. What I would particularly stick to is something that the ruling nomenclature in Serbia introduces into political reality, which is the devising of all institutions, except the Government of the Republic of Serbia. First, the Assembly was devised by ending the electoral will of citizens, then the function of the President of the Republic was devised by the fact that it was not reduced to censorship, which will be done in Montenegro these days and will come up under very different conditions in the presidential elections and in some way should have been introduced to the small door of the office system. The role of the president of the Republic is warranted, otherwise some future constitutional project is scheduled for the president of Serbia to elect the assembly council. Thirdly, the state union of Serbia-Montenegro has been devised. This was best seen at the constitutive session. The Democratic Party of Serbia has always advocated that the state be functional, that all the institutions of the future state union be functional, but what has been done in practical terms of words and what is done now is indeed only one form of disenfranchisement and that institution that is of importance to all citizens of the two Member States. Finally, the proposal for this law on the way and procedure of changing Serbia's Constitution is also being debated and, as someone said earlier, slowly but certainly Serbia is being introduced into a phase of dictatorship. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-08-0.u27963	The word is by MP Dragisa Djokovic. The People's Messenger is not present. ) On the lists of parliamentary groups there are no more entries for the word. Before the search is concluded, I ask if the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want the word. The word has been made by MP Dejan Mihajlov, president of the Democratic Party of Serbia's parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-08-0.u27964	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, this is too serious a job to be done this unseriously and even more unseriously. Understanding the work of adopting a new constitution in this way speaks of political maturity and willingness to truly work on the construction of institutions in this country. What this law indicates and what is likely to be the result of such a commission, is the confederalisation of Serbia, i.e. the transformation of the province's borders into the republican, provinceal institutions of Malta into the state, which is quite the opposite of what we stand for here. We stand for a modern state that will function smoothly, and this is exactly what leads us to a new chaos and to new deepening crises. If we start from the majority to vote on this constitution as set out in this law, it will not be the majority that will, perhaps, work out some political misunderstandings, solve some political conflicts and strike the foundations of a new democratic state, but rather the majority that will do the opposite. If we count what we have from the institutions in Serbia -- we don't have a president of Serbia, we have an acting Serbian president, who violated the Constitution by refusing to call elections to elect a president of Serbia; we have an illegal assembly in which MPs who have stolen mandates elect the government and these same MPs elect Svetozar Marovic as president of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro. We have the acting president of the Supreme Court of Serbia and we have an official of the duties of the Republic Public Prosecutor. We'll get a constitution that will be passed by an illegal assembly. We'll have a state of emergency. We won't have a country. We're going to have something that doesn't hold it, something that's not institutions, something that's a party formation, that needs to be used for one-time use. That's not how you build a country. (Employer from the O.R.: "That's right." I would ask, since the MP on this side of the DOS said, "Just like that," to get into the stenogram, to know that's the intention. Since this country is a party formation, that's not how you build a state. That's not how institutions are built. This is not the way to do something that will last for generations. This is a way to do something that will last six or seven months, or a year, which will be used to mask or to re-sell out of power, but certainly will not make life easier for the citizens of Serbia and will not create the legal security that we need so much at these moments, a strong institution, and will not bring Serbia closer to Europe. If you don't have a good constitution, if you don't have a strong state, you don't have a guarantee of human, political and all other rights. We see it today, when those rights are being violated. On the following points of the agenda, we will discuss what the draft laws are - contrary to the European Charter of Human Rights and to the principles of the Council of Europe in which we are now adopted. Just the absence of a state, the lack of institutions enables the self-will of oligarchy in power, the savagery of the party state, and enables the creation of a police state. That's why...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-08-0.u27965	People's MP, I would ask you to remember the basic provisions of the Rules of Procedure of this National Assembly, with all the understanding that the subject on which we are at this point implies freedom of argument, but make a difference between a political attitude and a lack of basic standards of good taste, when it comes to argument. I warn you the way you address the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-08-0.u27966	The fact that you've characterized your behavior as a lack of good taste, I'd like to join you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-08-0.u27967	I give you my first warning, for disrespecting the Rules of Procedure. [[Sagar.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-08-0.u27968	All I can say is that the warning you're giving me just confirms that we're doing a good thing and that fighting for the rule of law and a good constitution won't be distracted by police measures, by bad laws, by repression, by these poor reminders here in the Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-08-0.u27969	Do any of the representatives or presidents of the parliamentary groups want a word? No, I don't. ) Does the Proposer's representative, the minister, want a word? No, I don't. ) If not, the word has been made by Parliamentarian Stevan Lilic, as rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, vice-president of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-08-0.u27970	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, after this debate, I think a lot of questions are open and many issues have been discussed. I think it deserves many of these questions to be given one answer, which would, above all, be clear to the citizens of Serbia, the circumstances concerning this special procedure and the special law regarding the revision of the Constitution. Therefore, it is the specific review clauses developed by the Commission, whose draft law is now on the agenda, on the one hand, and the legality of this procedure. The legality of this procedure is based on the very law on the way and procedure of changing the Constitution and on Article 8 of this Act. As for legitimacy, this legitimacy stems from the way Serbia's new constitution will be adopted, and this is based on the referendum, but also on the Constitutional Charter that needs to establish the basic reasons for this change. The principle of qualified majority has also been respected in an appropriate way, as the qualified majority in this constitutional procedure is generated by the National Assembly adopting the text of the constitution by majority of votes, the text of the constitution goes to confirm through the constitutional referendum. There have been many objections in the sense that it is necessary for the two-thirds majority to vote in the text of the constitution. Given that Serbia is one electoral unit, and that the existing constitution, which has a two-thirds majority, was brought into the situation when Serbia had nine electoral units, it can be said that it is ordinary, i.e. By an absolute majority of votes, this process of qualification in the adoption of the constitution is respected. When it combines with the referendum, we get the minimum of democratic standards necessary for the adoption of the constitution. As regards amendments to the Constitution (not amendments to this law but amendments to the Constitution), I would like to remind myself that according to the revision clauses of the existing Constitution, the amendment procedure is not actually envisaged. Only a proposal to change the Constitution is foreseen for discussion and to adopt a corresponding majority. Here it was said, in relation to the two-thirds majority, that any future constitution of the Assembly, i.e. the Government, could change the constitution by simple majority, or absolute. It should be noted that the revision of the future constitution is not a matter of this constitutional law, but a revision of the future constitution is the subject of a future constitution, the Reviszione clause of the constitution will determine how the future constitution will be changed. Finally, I think there is one significant argument that is highlighted here (which should be fully answered with arguments), and that is why it has approached the adoption of a new constitution and does not change the existing Constitution. In fact, here it should be borne in mind that the term "change of the Constitution" can mean change and adoption of a new constitution. The existing constitutional clauses speak of changing the constitution. The reason why the Commission, or the Assembly, has defined itself as a change in the Constitution in terms of the adoption of a new constitution is that the existing Constitution was in fact the main cause of Serbia's breaking. It comes from several elements. The first and basic reason we can find in Article 135. Serbia's constitution, which was in fact a SFRJ decomposition generator. Read that provision and you will see what the Constitution of Serbia was, or the political forces behind it, the basic generator for breaking the then constitutional framework of the SFRY. Secondly, the existing Serbian Constitution has at least two provisions concerning economic foundations and political institutions that do not comply with the basic postulates of the modern democratic standard. First, Article 56 especially guarantees the protection of social property. There's no need to go into detail. The second question is about the institutions of the government. Article 9 of the existing Serbian Constitution says among other things that the President of the Republic represents and expresses Serbia's state unity. So in this context, the President of the Republic has practically prerogatives of an absoluteist ruler. Expressing state unity is something that is not in line with modern democratic standards when it comes to the President of the Republic. It can be parliament, it can be the homes of parliament, but it cannot be the institution of the President of the Republic. Finally, a strong state is the state that has the power to deal with organised crime. It's not a strong state that deals with its citizens. For these reasons, I think there are enough arguments, primarily legal, procedural, but also those that arise from our reality, that it is necessary to approach the change in Serbia's constitution in order to bring a new constitution to Serbia. For these reasons, I also appeal to those MPs who had a different view and who took the view in the debate that there are various technical and other interferences regarding the procedure for amending the Constitution, that they have in mind the general interest that Serbia is now needed, Serbia which has already taken the first step and is involved in European integration through the Council of Europe, to support the adoption of this law on the way and procedure of the change of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-08-0.u27971	Since everyone who is entitled to the Rules of Procedure has used their right to a word, I conclude a principled search. As we have conducted a review of the draft law in principle, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle and in general. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-08-0.u27972	It's not about hurting the Rules of Procedure, it's about the proposal to double the time for the debate, so the time is ten hours, since we have six points of the agenda, changes and additions to six laws. We think that it is important laws, that it makes complete sense for the Assembly to declare this and, in accordance with Article 90(3)'s provision on behalf of the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group, I propose that the total time for the debate be ten hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-08-0.u27973	The National MP made a proposal that the National Assembly would declare. Please determine the voting quorum. I find that the electronic system has established that more than 126 MPs attend the session, and I am putting to the vote MP Zarko Obradovic's proposal to extend the debate. For 61, against 74, the abstentions were not voted by 12, a total of 147 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal of MP Zarko Obradovic. We move to item 2 of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Law on Organization and Jurisdiction of State Organizations in the Subsidisation of Organised Crime (Common Main Search with 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7 of the Agenda) The total time of debate in the principle of parliamentary groups is five hours and this time will be allocated to MPs' groups in proportion to the number of Members of Parliament. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to file an application for a word with the order of MPs. I am opening a joint principle search on the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Organisation and Jurisdiction of State Authorities in countering organised crime, Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Arms and Amending, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the High Council of Justice, Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Prosecutory, Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Criminal Law of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Criminal Law of the Republic of Serbia. Do the proposing representatives, Dr Vladan Batic, Justice Minister or Dusan Mihajlovic, Deputy Prime Minister want a word? The word has a minister in the government of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-08-0.u27974	Dear Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, first of all a few words about the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Organisation and Jurisdiction of State Authorities to combat organised crime. The bill re-defined the concept of organised crime as committing crimes by an organised criminal group, i.e. other criminal groups or its members, for which a sentence of at least four years is foreseen. What is the paper in the text of the proposal? The draft law provides for the special powers of the competent state authorities in the procedure concerning criminal offences of organised crime, and this: preventive detention of the longest 24 hours for a person who can provide information and evidence of organised crime, up to 30 days; detention of up to 30 and 30 more days for particularly justified reasons for a person who is suspected of having committed a criminal offence with an element of organised crime; detention in a special detention unit for up to three months and another three months for particularly justified reasons, noting that even under the existing provisions of the CAP, there is the possibility of detention for up to six months, even in certain circumstances and beyond, if the identity and capture of organised criminal group members is necessary. In order to improve the efficiency of the procedure, new deadlines are also foreseen. Compared to the CAP, this is practically a kind of back of a specialist. New deadlines for the prosecution, for the release of the accused, for the decision on further prosecution, for the making of a first-degree verdict, for the adoption of a second-degree verdict, for proposing new evidence, for the process of skill-making and the delivery of findings and opinions of the experts and the possibility of a temporary ban on the practice of art. It is projected, as a brand-new institute, to hold a final session to record evidence, as well as the possibility of keeping an audio record of the main search. As for the draft law on amendments and additions to the Criminal Law of the Republic of Serbia, I would point only to the newspaper. The bill introduces new crimes: a new crime is added to the group of crimes against life and the body - the violent taking of human organs or body parts. A group of crimes against the dignity of personality and morale adds a new crime - the exploitation of minors for pornography. A new set of crimes - crimes against computer data security - is added: unauthorized use of computers and computer networks, computer sabotage, creation and introduction of computer viruses, computer fraud, interference with the operation of electronic processing and transmission of data and computer networks, unauthorized access to a computer or computer network, prevention and restriction of access to the public computer network. What are the most important changes in existing solutions? In the following crimes, the level of imprisonment increases significantly. In a group of crimes against life and the bodies for the crime of murder. In a group of crimes against the freedom and rights of man and citizen - the unlawful deprivation of freedom, kidnapping, extortion and endangerment of security. In a group of crimes against property - robbery, serious cases of robbery and robbery, extortion, unauthorized use of copyright and other related rights, concealment. In a group of crimes against justice - giving false testimony. In a group of crimes against public order and legal traffic -- making and obtaining weapons and funds intended to carry out crimes. In a group of crimes against official duty - falsifying an official I.D. As for the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Law of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, which, following the adoption of the Constitutional Charter, is considered a Criminal Law of Serbia, and in order to create a clear distinction against the existing Criminal Law of Serbia, this law will be called in the future, until a full codification of criminal law is carried out, by a basic criminal law. Provisions relating to the mandatory application of a minor criminal law are complemented by a solution whereby the perpetrator may be sentenced to 40 years if the death penalty has been prescribed at the time of the execution of the criminal offence. One of the basic newspapers is the introduction of a confiscation of assets as a special type of punishment. The confiscation of assets consists of the confiscation of assets of a convicted person, free of charge, within the limits of the prescribed law. It can be said to the perpetrator, with an element of organised crime, who has been sentenced to prison for at least four years, as collateral punishment. The introduction of this sentence will also result in a change in the law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions, in order to regulate the way in which the confiscation of property is carried out. The bill reintroduces an institute that once existed -- a particularly difficult case, noting that the confiscation of property was also once incorporated into Criminal Law, as a special type of punishment. The institute of a particularly difficult case is a reason to impose a more severe sentence. As conditions for the application of this institute, particular determination, perseverance and indemnity of the perpetrators are envisaged, that the work has caused particularly serious consequences, or has been done under other particularly difficult circumstances. What are the amendments to the existing laws - the bill tightens the penalties for criminals in return and makes it clear that the returnee is considered a person who was once already convicted of a crime. The amount of punishment can be greater than 15 years. The sentence of the perpetrator who has committed several crimes, i.e. in fact, introduces the possibility of giving a single sentence, which may be greater than 15 and more than 40 years, by not being more than the collection of penalties established for a particular offence. In other words, it's possible that a single sentence could be a few dozen years, literally 100 years. A group of crimes against constitutional order, where prison sentences are significantly increased -- assaulting constitutional order, killing top state officials, armed rebellion, association for hostile action, providing assistance to the perpetrator after a felony has been committed, and -- punishment for preparing a crime. A group of crimes against humanity and international law significantly increases the penalty for the crime of establishing a slave relationship and bringing a person into a slave relationship. In a group of crimes against other social values, penalties are tightened, and drastically, for our occasions, dragonically, for unauthorized production and marketing of intoxicating drugs, and for allowing the use of intoxicating drugs. A being, and the government has accepted an amendment, which incriminates itself and only possession of drugs. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office practically stipulates that the state prosecutor is proposing a government, elected by parliament; deputy public prosecutor is appointed by the government; and all that was in the jurisdiction of the High Council of Justice is moving to the government, which is a solution known to most European countries. So far, the solution has shown poor results, bad experiences. The principle of responsibility is simply imposed here. In parallel, the provisions of the Law on the High Council of Justice are also amended. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-08-0.u27975	I thank Mr. Secretary. Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? There is a word from MP Zarko Obradovic, president of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-08-0.u27976	Dear Presidency, fellow Members of the People's Parliament, gentlemen of the Ministers, we have before us a set of laws whose amendments and additions wish to achieve greater efficiency in the state's crime prevention. The goal set itself is not disputed. The SPS also believes that the fight against crime and terrorism is a national and state interest, that the fight against this evil should be fought continuously and that there should certainly be a consensus on all political parties. What we cannot agree with is that the objectives set can be achieved in this way, proposed amendments and amendments to the law, because they are in a significant part incomplete, in many elements contrary to the principles of criminal law, to the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, to the provisions of the Charter of Human and Minority Rights and Civil Liberties, which, to remind me, we adopted just over two months ago in this Parliament, contrary to the documents of the Council of Europe, whose full member we became a few days ago. Then there are imprecise provisions, some completely unnecessary, some non-applicable, unarranged, which opens up the possibility of their abuse; some provisions also suspend the provisions of applicable laws, such as the Code of Criminal Procedure, etc. In one word, the proposed changes and additions to this set of laws are bad. The essence of the proposed changes is that the emergency measures want to be translated into regular, translated into legal texts, to get legal, legal form. The history and practice of many countries has shown countless times that during the duration of the state of emergency in a country it is not wise to make any more fundamental changes to existing legislation, as most often these laws are made significantly worse and less democratic. That's the situation with these proposed changes. The concrete objections of the SPS parliamentary group, in relation to amendments and additions to the proposed laws, are as follows - firstly, when it comes to the Law on the Organisation and Jurisdiction of State Authorities in the prevention of organised crime, we find it bad to delete the provision of a law which nevertheless accurately determines crimes, which fall under organised crime, such as: Unauthorized production and placing on the market of intoxicating drugs, illicit arms trafficking, extortion and kidnapping, robbery theft and others, in particular counterfeiting and money laundering. I mention this crime because we heard from the President of the Government of the Republic of Serbia that the Governor of the National Bank printed false money, which is a serious crime, so we expect the state authorities to take appropriate measures and in this case, to show in public the effectiveness and consistency shown, to prove that the law is the same for everyone and that everyone has to respect the law. Instead of a precise definition of what is meant by organized crime, we have received one general formulation, which can mean anything and nothing, which will certainly be the subject of free jurisprudence, and hence selective application. The provisions of Articles 15v and 15g, which are proposed in these amendments and additions to the laws, which refer to two types of detention, to the preventive detention of the person on the basis of the prosecutor's decision and to the retention of the person on the grounds of suspicion, for a month on the basis of the decision of the official, and for another month on the decision of the minister, are not in accordance with the Constitution. Hypothetically, then, it is possible for one person to be held back two times in 15 days, and then on suspicion for another two months, all without a court ruling. This is directly contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and other documents. The draft law provides that the decision on the preventively detained person is to be taken by a special prosecutor, i.e. a public prosecutor or a deputy public prosecutor appointed by a special prosecutor. The appeal is again decided by the Republic Public Prosecutor within the prescribed deadline. Article 15g states: "The persons suspected of committing a crime with an element of organised crime can be kept in the rooms of a special detention unit for up to 30 days. The decision to retain the person referred to in Article 1 shall be adopted by the authorised person of the service. For particularly justified reasons, on a reasoned proposal from the authorised official, the Minister responsible for Home Affairs may extend the detention of the person referred to in Article 1 to 30 more days. "We believe that all these provisions are directly contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and to Article 16, because they all refer to detention and are brought without the court's decision. Namely, in Article 16. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is said: "The person suspected of committing a crime may, on the basis of a decision by the competent court, be detained and detained in custody only if it is necessary for the conduct of the criminal proceedings or the security of the people." In addition, we consider this provision to be contrary to Article 15. The Charter of Civil and Minority Rights, adopted by this assembly in advance. We call this charter, even in public, a small constitution. Article 15 of this Charter states: "The arrested person must be brought before the competent court without delay, and no later than 48 hours. Otherwise, it is released." Item 3: "The person suspected of committing a criminal offence may only be detained by a decision of the competent court, if necessary in order to conduct a criminal proceedings". The final position: "The duration of detention must be reduced to the shortest necessary time, in accordance with the law, which is being handled by the competent court". So, the court, the court, the court and the court alone, and in this motion, the law on the court doesn't matter. We consider these provisions to be contrary to the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, which the Council of Europe brought back in 1950. In addition to the Council of Europe, whose member we became the other day and logically it would be to apply the provisions of the documents they adopt and adopted, we will have to adopt them, through the press we could find out that NGOs are expressing doubts regarding the proposed text of the law that we are talking about tonight and that "International Human Rightsnatch". As far as the bill is concerned, so much. As for the draft law on amendments and additions to the Criminal Law of the Republic of Serbia, we believe that tightening criminal policy will not solve the problem of crime in our country, because it is known that we are the country with the highest number of penalties imposed in Europe, while we have the least fines imposed at the same time. Hence, it would be more meaningful in our case-law to affirm the application of fines. This one before, because by constantly tightening and increasing criminal policy, criminal law loses the purpose of its existence. Large prison sentences do not contribute to preventing the increase in criminality, because in countries where capital punishment is provided for in criminal law, there would be very few perpetrators of criminal offences, and it is known that this is not the case in practice. In addition, a person who spent ten or fifteen years in prison is almost impossible to re-suscitate, thus losing a significant function of criminal law. Such drastic punishments, as are now proposed, were characteristic of the former socialist countries that abandoned this practice. The example of Hungary, which in its practice had 35-40% pronunciation of large and inhumane penalties, today reduced it to only 12%, while in Germany the percentage is about 6% and in England 5%.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-08-0.u27977	Do you want to use the next ten minutes? No, I don't. ) Are any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, applying for a word? No, I don't. ) We continue the debate according to the order of the declared Members of the People in the joint principle debate. The word has been made by MP Adam Urosevic, a member of the SS, and then by MP Zoran Krasic, a member of the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-08-0.u27978	Dear Presidency, Ministers, Brothers and Sisters of Serbs, respected representatives of national minorities and ethnic communities, before I introduce you to the position of the Soviet Union on the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Organisation and Jurisdiction of State Authorities in countering organised crime, allow me to do a little crackdown. An internship of 30 years in the judiciary or, to be more precise, in the prosecution, gives me the right or makes an obligation to disagree with some of the flat-rate estimates that the situation in the judiciary is catastrophic. Rather, we could say that the situation in the judiciary is warning, and this is due to a mild criminal policy and the narrow rights of internal affairs authorities in a pre-crisis procedure. Let me remind you, in every lawsuit or lawsuit, there are two parties or two parties. One will be satisfied with the court's decision, and the other won't. Of course, it would be most ideal in a utopian society, where certain moral frameworks would prevent criminal activity. Unfortunately, we still don't live in that society. As far as criminal policy is concerned, the Soviet Union has always advocated a stricter criminal policy for criminal acts, because we believe that a threatened sentence should, in addition to the repression and resociation of the convicted, warningly and preventively to defuse the perpetrator of the crime. Allow me, too, to remind you that the Soviet Union is the only one of the opposition parties to vote for the adoption of the Law on the Organisation and Jurisdiction of State Authorities in the prevention of organised crime and the formation of a Security and Information Agency (BIA). We have also advocated amendments to Serbia's Penal Code for stricter penalties, including retaining the death penalty for those most severe crimes. We also advocate greater powers of the special prosecutor's office and the special department of the district court to deal with organised crime. To return to the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Organisation and Jurisdiction of State Authorities in countering organised crime. Namely, I would draw your attention to article 15th of the proposed amendments to the law, which says in its first position: "Until the detention of Article 15d or 15d of this law is completed, the special prosecutor is obliged to press charges". I draw your attention to one fact, according to some of my humble knowledge of the Criminal Procedure Act, that the prosecutor may file a direct indictment, he may file an indictment and indictment upon completion of the investigation. Therefore, I believe that this article should also have the time of the ongoing investigation. Look, in this first position, if the prosecutor does not press charges, the second position is added: "In the event of a non-defension of an indictment under Article 1, the accused shall be released, and the special prosecutor must make a decision on further prosecution within 30 days." I wonder what that and what decision the prosecutor can make about further prosecution, to continue the prosecution. It's, I mean, legal and criminal nonsens. I therefore believe that, in the first position of this member, it is necessary to consider the duration of the investigation for certain criminal offences. Very often these days we hear about the lack of urgency of the judiciary. However, there are certain deadlines for the prosecutor to press charges in this same Article 15e, and the courts have to make a decision. If we add up this time, one month has the right of an authorised official, it means the MUP to determine the detention. Another month, the police minister, three months of investigation, means at the beginning of the criminal trial, three months after the Serbian Supreme Court, two years after the indictment, to read you this position 2 within two years, or after the indictment, detention may take the longest two years. So, after the indictment, the person may be in custody for another two years, and later, when making a second-degree decision, that is, the court may pass another year; practically, the accused may be in custody for three years and eight months. One hypothetical question is raised - what if a second-degree body, i.e. the Court of Appeal, makes a decision on the release, i.e. the acquittal of this person. As far as the Soviet Union is concerned, we will support the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Organisation and Jurisdiction of State Authorities in countering organised crime. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-08-0.u27979	People's MP Dejan Mihajlov, president of the DSS parliamentary group, came forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-08-0.u27980	The need to contain organized crime is indisputable. If we remember the debate of last March when it was discussed and when it was voted on amendments to the Serbian Criminal Law, you will remember the remarks we made. They were heading towards a non-compliant criminal policy and mild criminal policies for the most serious crimes. Since we then have imposed fines related to the violation of the electoral process, the electoral rights, we have come to a situation that, for example, the violation of an electoral right is just as punishable as an indiscriminate murder. We brought these remarks back then, and we pointed out the need to coordinate criminal policy, to punish the most serious crimes - and in this case, above all, to think of brutal murders, organised crime, heavy theft, robbery, - rise, to comply with these penalties that were then imposed. What was not accepted at the time, which was not heard, proved to have produced some consequences, which we have witnessed these days. Mild criminal policy is something that has, above all, resulted in the general atmosphere in society and the irresponsible work of services that had to work to combat organised crime, above all in politics. To fight organized crime, and in general against crime, you have preventive and repressive measures. All societies always tend to strengthen preventive measures, and in this case it would be quick to catch those perpetrators and their fear of being caught, because that fear among the perpetrators is much stronger than that fear that follows when the trial comes and punishes. So much more attention needs to be paid to the provisions concerning criminal proceedings, the Code of Criminal Procedure and the measures that police can resort to, which are of course not in conflict with European conventions and attitudes, the rules of Europe, where we have recently become a member. This set of laws has rather anachronous provisions, and there are no differences between reasonable doubts, where definitions are prescribed that are not legal, but political, inserted into this law. It is simply evident that this law was not made by an expert hand and that it is abundant in a series of provisions that are not accurate. These are, for example, provisions related to computers, viruses; more can be defined as damage to other people's affairs and as special aspects of this crime, but in this way that is not known to Europe so far. This simply speaks of weak monitoring of comparative practice and lack of experience in this matter, in writing the law. This will leave the consequences, because it will not help to curb crime to the extent that it would help, that it has worked precisely, responsibly and systematically, with one analysis of foreign legislation that should serve us as a model, especially in countries that have fought organised crime, in the making of our laws. Let's just take a proposal of confiscation which is simply something that the parties to the legislation do not know, because foreign legislation knows the term that the property created as a result of the execution of the crime is taken away, that is, by the individual, the person who committed the crime, and in this case you confiscate all the property. It could happen that you take away a criminal who's convicted of a certain crime of obtaining something, and it's a result of a crime, you take away property, and it's his grandfather's or his father's, because he's committed some kind of crime. Here it all comes down to that tribal punishment or tribal responsibility or collective responsibility, although the degree of responsibility has been reached and defined by the Constitutional Charter and international acts, and that is individual responsibility. There is no connection here between the individual responsibility and the execution of a crime and the property created as a result of this crime, but the property, which may be a shared property and his spouse, his grandfather and fatherland, is placed in the same basket and subject to confiscation. These provisions are contrary to all international conventions where private property is regulated; simply, in this way, this area must not be regulated. Let's remind ourselves that there are already powers in the law that the property that was created as a result of committing crimes will be taken away, so we're just saying here that some of the provisions of the law have not been applied. Let's go back to the following facts: namely, Article 3. The constitutional charters of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro as one of the goals of establishing a state union are prescribed to bring regulations and practices into line with European international standards. The Constitutional Charter introduces a ban on reducing the level of human and minority rights, individual, and collective civil freedoms, and that is your Article 9. The Charter also lays down the primacy of ratified international contracts and the rules of international law adopted at all, above the law of the state community and the law of the Member States. This is a member of your 16. It means that they are international acts that we have ratified, and there are many, and international acts that come from our membership in international organisations, above our rights, and we have to apply them. If our law is in conflict with international law, international law applies. That's exactly what they're saying here and they're talking about the level of human rights achieved, that they can't be threatened by a later law. With Serbia-Montenegro's accession to the Council of Europe, we have committed ourselves to applying and respecting European conventions for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms, with the provisions of the conventions having priority over domestic regulations. That's what we're talking about, that's what comes from our reception. If you followed the whole reception ceremony and everything that came next, you saw and you heard it was there and said. The authorities of the state union are obliged to notify the Council of Europe at any time when the state of emergency is introduced, and our membership in the Council of Europe obliges us to inform the Council of Europe. On the other hand, the Council of Europe is obliged to monitor the level of human and minority rights, civil and all other rights guaranteed by this Convention, and how they are executed during the emergency. Today, this bill introduces that the witness may be deprived of liberty. Under international conventions and international law, a witness can never be deprived of freedom. This leaves the possibility of a witness being deprived of his freedom for up to 60 days. You don't have that in any international document and it doesn't exist anywhere. Article 5(2) The European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms is explicit - that anyone arrested will be immediately, in a language he understands, informed of the reasons for his arrest and brought before the court. You can't bring a witness to court and you can't give him the reasons for his arrest, because those reasons don't exist. Simply, no international right anywhere, and we are obliged to respect it, not knowing the Institute of Witness Freedom, and even for 60 days. To make it uglier and worse, the person who has been designated a preventive detention against the arrest resolution declares an appeal to the Republic Public Prosecutor. The European Convention, which we are obliged to respect, tells us that the person arrested or deprived of liberty guarantees that, without delay, he will be brought before the judge, or another official by law designated to perform judicial functions. The State Prosecutor, in this case, is the prosecution authority, or party to criminal proceedings, which in its procedural rights is in everything equal to the accused and is procedurally opposed to him. By giving the defendant or witness the opportunity to declare the complaint to the authority which is his opposite party in the proceedings, which stands against him, you have left him and denied him his right. It happens here that the court, as an impartial authority, is dismissed from this procedure and in accordance with that people's "cadiya sues you, cadia judges you" all about the same cost. It is, of course, the denial of guaranteed rights to the European Convention. If it is assumed that the right to defend, appeal and judicial protection has been suspended, it can be seen that we are going down to the police state. The rights of detainees, guaranteed by these rights and prohibited by such behaviour, have been established by the Convention on torture and other cruel and inhumane or humiliating procedures or penalties, the United Nations of 1984. (President: Do you want to use the next ten minutes?) Of course, I will. This is the opposite of these conventions. We are here talking about that a series of European conventions have been violated and that the text which has been brought forth before us cruelly violates all the rights that are guaranteed and harshly violates the attainment of human rights. The ban on this is also defined by Article 9. Constitutional statutes, where it is said that the degree of human rights cannot be reduced. This leads to a state of emergency when the state of emergency is lifted. The European Convention knows how to deny individual rights only in cases of emergency or war. Then the Council of Europe allows you to deny individual rights to individual citizens, suspects or those suspected of committing a crime. In other cases, these possibilities do not exist. We are simply coming into a situation that we, as a country that has just now joined the Council of Europe, are breaking the basic rules guaranteed by membership in the Council of Europe after less than ten days. By membership in the Council of Europe, we have opened up the possibility and the right for our citizens to appeal to the European Court of Human Rights. Who will compensate for the damage to those who, by our membership in the Council of Europe, will appeal to the European Court of Human Rights, who is in charge of such a threat to the rights of our citizens. Who will complain to them, and who will bear the expense of the damage to those faces? What's important to mention and why the public is being deceived is that there's no retroactiveness and that what we're bringing here right now, that the penalties for these crimes that we're going to define cannot be applied retroactively. And it is also defined by the Constitutional Charter and all the European conventions we are signatories to, which we must apply. It is defined that the subsequent law is applied only if it is lighter than the law applicable at the time of the offence, so that this is applied in the future. It just can't be applied right now. If we talk about the Code of Criminal Procedure, when the law was discussed in the Federal Assembly of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, the Democratic Party of Serbia had a number of amendments aimed at giving greater authority to the police than are now defined by the Criminal Procedure Act. Now it's been defined to shorten police custody, to tie hands to the simplest police. We then proposed amendments to the Federal Assembly to give greater authority to the police, but all in line with the European conventions. The Democratic Party of Serbia remains faithful to the implementation of European and other international conventions in our country and we will do nothing to violate them. "Human Rights Njatch" is an organization that we have been reporting on while the opposition was much called upon and trusted and we have taken as relevant when under another regime rights were violated, threatened freedoms, when someone wanted to adopt and ensued in the anti-terrorism law; remember all those laws that some were trying to deny the right to a different political opinion, to deny the right to speak differently. We respected that organization back then. We respect her now. Human Rights Watch is an organisation that has announced, not from Belgrade, in New York on 7 April, that the government should give up the proposal for a new criminal law, which provides for long-term detention without any communication, even if the situation is not extraordinary. Human Rights Watch voiced concern that the Serbian government adopted a draft law on April 3rd authorising police to hold a person without contact with the defender and other persons for up to 60 days. Prolonged detention of suspects without the right to communicate is a violation of the Council of Europe's standards, said Human Rights Watch. Joining the Council of Europe means more than a ceremony in Strasbourg and must include concrete steps in respect of the Council of Europe standards, said Executive Director Human Rights Watch for Europe Elizabeth Andersen. These are some things we should be bound by and which, regardless of your disdain and everything else we can hear right now in the O.R., and facts. If we want to be part of the European family, which we are, if we want to be not only on paper or geographically, we need to apply standards that apply in civilised Europe. Yesterday I heard a statement from the acting president of the Republic, who said we'd be working on building and raising human rights levels. I expect that what Human Rights Watch has expressed, as much of the rest of the DOS has once worked closely with this organisation and with Amnesty International and the Helsinki Committee on Human Rights, will respect and that the laws will be brought into line with European and international conventions, that no one, as it says, will be committed to building democratic institutions, the rule of law, that the rights will be violated at every step, that police rights, police states, will not be created regularly, but that the police state and police will apply only to crime, but then do so by other means. Italy has a law on fighting organised crime, is in line with the rules of the Council of Europe. Is Italy a country that didn't have organized crime? She had at least as much as we do now, if not more. It has fought the organised crime through legislation that is in line with the European conventions. Should we in the first step, 10 days after the accession of the Council of Europe, violate European conventions and international acts? Is that blasphemy something we need right now? Who will be responsible for our new release from these international organisations? This is too serious a topic to leave before the debate ends, during the debate, and that there would be more cards in MPs' benches than MPs. Simply, there is no need in this assembly to hold a debate on such a serious issue, a proposal that restricts and threatens human and civil rights defined by European conventions, international acts, there is not enough political seriousness to discuss and debate here with a final argument. It is our goal, at least I believe so, to fight organised crime, not selective, to eradicate and the tobacco mafia besides this classic crime, to capture the perpetrators of various types of economic crime, and thus to reach a system that will be strong and to a legal state that will be able to function. As dangerous as this crime, classically, is corruption. In the last few weeks, there's been no word on that. If you look at the means that are supposed to be moving in corruption flows, they are greater than those used and resulting from drug sales and drug production. Is that what's being taken care of? No, I don't. Some measures are selectively applied here. I don't think that's gonna lead to a final match with organized crime. I fear that such measures, which are aimed at endangering human rights, will not contribute to the fight against organised crime, but rather to the intimidation of citizens, to the formation and creation of a political state that needs to secure emergency measures, when this emergency is lifted, and all in order to maintain power and fight political indifferences. But I expect that there are those in this room who will accept the suggestions "Humans Rate Nuch", the OSCE and other international organisations, and who will see that there's something going on here, that it doesn't work, and that we should stick to the rules, not only when we have these rights at stake, but when we have to guarantee others. It's a rule that exists in all states. It's simple, if we don't stick to it, we can hardly be a member of any international organization and call ourselves that, if we're spending more money on prisons here than building a system of protection for human and civil rights.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-08-0.u27981	This discussion would end today's work. I'll see you tomorrow. Goodbye. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the fourth session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2003. Please insert identification cards into your MPs to determine the quorum. The meetings of the Legislative Committee and the Committee on Justice are under way. I'm guessing we have a quorum. I inform you that they are prevented from attending the following MPs: Alen Selimović, Branko Besevic, Borisvoje Drakulović, Slobodan Pavlovic, Biaci Anton, Išpanovic Istvan, Petar Misic, Miroslav Markicevic and Zoran Boskovic. The delay was announced by Gordana Komic and Predrag Stojanovic. We move to item 2 of the agenda: - Proposal for an amending and supplementing law on the organisation and jurisdiction of state organies in the subsidisation of organised crime (joint principled search with 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7 of the agenda) as a representative of the parliamentary group, the word has a national MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, deputy president of the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group.
