ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-27-0.u29907	THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA The National Assembly of the Stenografical Note Eighth Session of the First Regular Session of the 27th of May 2003 (First Day of Work) (The session began at 12.10 p.m. The chairman of Natasa Micic, president of the National Assembly. )
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-27-0.u29908	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the eighth session of the first regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2003. I find he had a quorum for work and decision-making. This session, which was delivered to you, contained a draft agenda for the session. Before setting out the agenda for the session, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, we need to decide on proposals for putting on the agenda acts by emergency procedure. 1. The government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed that the National Assembly, by emergency procedure, put on the agenda a draft law amending the Charter Market Act of Values and other financial instruments, which it submitted to the National Assembly on 23 May 2003. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 118, against 78, the abstentioned one, did not vote 10, out of the 207 members present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. 2. I would like to put the motion on the agenda, following an urgent procedure, of the draft decision on amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by MP Bojan Pajtic. For 121 against 44, it did not vote 43, out of 208 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal from MP Bojan Pajtic. 3. National MPs Ivan Andrić, Vlasimir Budimović, Dr Milos Lučić, Ljubisa Kesic, Shandor Melank, Sima Radulović, Prof. Dr. Mirko Rosic, Prof. Dr. Dragor Hiber and Natasa Micic suggested that the National Assembly, by emergency procedure, put on the agenda a bill on liability for human rights violations, which they submitted to the National Assembly on 14 May 2003. For 126, against 91, six of the 223 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the proposal tabled by the MPs of the DOS-Reform Serbian parliamentary group, the Civil Union of Serbia. 4. National MP Miroslav Christodulo suggested putting the National Assembly on the agenda of the Amendments and Supplements Act on Republic Administrative Taxes, which he submitted to the National Assembly on 19 May 2003. For 39, against 113, two abstentions, were not voted 72 out of 226 MPs. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. 5. National MPs Zoran R. Angelkovic, Ljubisa Maravic, Dr Zarko Obradovic, Đura Lazic and Sreten Mitrovic suggested that the National Assembly, on an urgent basis, put on the agenda a declaration on the protection of national and national interests in Kosovo and Metohija, which submitted to the National Assembly on 23 May 2003. For 58, against 114, 52 of the 224 MPs did not vote. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. Since we have come to the conclusion of the emergency proposals, I would like to ask the Members of Parliament to make a statement on the agenda of the session in general. So let's figure out the agenda first.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-27-0.u29909	Ms. Micic knows that after the vote, this breach of the Rules of Procedure would have been groundless, so she insisted on voting. On behalf of the Socialist Party of Serbia parliamentary group, I am obliged to advertise the violation of the Rules of Procedure, which states: "The draft law prepared in accordance with the provisions of this Rules of Procedure can be included in the agenda of the National Assembly session within no less than 15 days and no longer than 60 days of its submission. In exceptional cases, a 60-day period may be exceeded, but no longer than 30 days, and the president of the National Assembly will inform the MPs of the reasons for the overrun." Here, you can see that the president of the National Assembly hasn't even tried to inform the MPs about the reasons for the overrun. Today's session includes two draft laws: one submitted on 18 October 2002, so six or seven months ago, and the other submitted on 16 October 2002. I think this way of working and this way of determining the agenda shows that the congregation's majority doesn't appreciate this institution at all. It objectively, in this way, derogates Parliament. I have to point out that there are more than a dozen, and it seems to me that 20 laws have passed from the point of view of the Rules of Procedure. On the other hand, here we are today witnessing the situation that we are constantly -- on a day or two, by emergency procedure, before the session is introduced by some law, even session sessions are scheduled hours before the deadline set. The reason is very promiscuous, leaving MPs and the congregation minority as little time as possible to prepare for the congregation meeting. We believe that this way of working is one imitation of democracy and Parliament. On a number of grounds, this parliament has been decorated, it is bad that it is done through the establishment of the agenda. I believe that the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly have been injured and that these points should not be the subject of decision and should not be discussed at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-27-0.u29910	Let me just give you a quick answer. The truth is there are over 20 laws, which, as you said, stand in the process for more than 60 days. However, the reasons for the inclusion in the agenda were very important and it was only possible to correct that the government had submitted the same proposal again. We'll take care of it in the future. If you are not satisfied, you will be answered by the Administrative Board. The word is made by MP Dragan Markovic, and then by Parliament Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-27-0.u29911	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are working in a deaf room today, advertising Article 170. There's no TV transmission. Yesterday I said I would suggest to the opposition that we take the whistles, but I stopped by three municipalities and there are no whistles in any of the shops. Looks like DOS pulled out of selling all the whistles. There is a congregation decision, ladies and gentlemen, that this assembly be public and that it is transmitted by RTS. RTS has no right to make its own decision, until the Assembly changes another decision, or votes that RTS has no obligation anymore. You said, since the Broadcasting Act was adopted, the RTS Management Board is now deciding whether or not RTS will transfer sessions, and given that it is the founder of the Republic, that it has invested, not only recently, but since the establishment of RTS, a lot of money has been invested, and RTS cannot make such a decision itself. So it's a political decision. I demand on behalf of the MP group of the Serbian Unity Party, because you promised the citizens that the work would be public, transparent, and there is nothing out of transparency. I'll order the whistles and bring the opposition, and I hope those of the DSS who are taught to blow whistles and ask for this assembly to be transferred. I'm also advertising Article 34. When it comes to agendas and agendas, I ask the Government and the President of the Assembly - why you did not put the trust of Minister Vesenov on the agenda. The one who mocks agricultural producers, the one who calls on Jesus Christ and God to let it rain, and it is known that he took a young life and said that he was not guilty, shamed, and would not even admit that he had passed on to the red light. A large number of citizens these days have signed and asked the Serbian government to put that item on the agenda, so let's see who will vote for such a minister, who is not moral and for the minister who has destroyed agricultural production since he came to the post.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-27-0.u29912	As for direct transmission, we've discussed who knows how many times and I realize there's no injury to the 170 you advertised, because here it says public information funds have free access to the sessions, which is the case. We had a session of the Committee on Culture and Information and I sent a letter, and Dragan Markovic Palma can also advocate to provide a direct transfer. I don't know what else I can do. As for the discharge of Minister Veselinov, there is no formal proposal, and if there were, it would certainly be included in the agenda. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-27-0.u29913	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising the violation of two members of the Rules of Procedure. First of all, Article 80, which obliges the President of the National Assembly to decide on the day and time of the meeting of the National Assembly with a draft agenda and at least seven days before the date for which the session is convened. Article 2 says a notice on the timing of the session and agenda can be made extremely short, with the president of the National Assembly obliged to explain such a procedure at the beginning of the session. The state of emergency has passed and in the state of emergency you know how we did. The sessions were scheduled the same way they were now done. At that time, the president of the National Assembly explained this with an emergency and the need for the Assembly to be practically in a permanent session. We're in a regular session. There was no reason not to respect this seven-day period, and if there was one, then it was the turn that the president of the National Assembly at the beginning of the session, or at the beginning of this session, says why she scheduled the session Thursday, practically one day before we had the deadline to submit amendments to the draft laws, which are today in the procedure. It's a kind of empowerment by the president of the National Assembly. We're used to her incoherent arguments about all the advertising of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-27-0.u29914	Mrs. Pop-Lazic, on the basis of article 101, I give you a warning about the insults you have made.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-27-0.u29915	I don't know if you know what it means too much. It's without an explanation, an argumentary explanation. Take the Vujaklia and make your dictionary rich. The explanation that you gave to your colleague on Article 134, which I am also advertising, has the effect that the Administrative Board will declare the injury of that member in the way we have already gotten used to it, which is that there is no breach of the procedure and, of course, there is no legal remedy against the decision of the Administrative Board. I'm just warning you, Madam Chairman, that as President of the Assembly, you are obliged to warn the Government, which does not have to be taken into account, whether some deadline has expired when the bill was delivered to us. It was delivered in 2001, 2002, and it is yours to determine the agenda when we are in a regular session. You should have warned the government that the deadline had expired and that the government would then take what was at its disposal to renew the draft act. (President: Time. ) It was no problem at all, and you would not have brought yourself into such an unexplainable situation, nor would you have humiliated Parliament in this way, and it seems to me to the government itself with your conduct and your unhappiness.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-27-0.u29916	To the advertising of Article 80. The Rules of Procedure can only tell you that it would be good before you go out to advertise the Rules of Procedure to see if the deadline is respected. Therefore, it has been respected for seven days and you are absolutely wrong. Check in your office, your MP's group, when you've received a session call. I've already given an answer to the second part. If you are not satisfied, the Administrative Board will respond to you as well. Are you throwing it out of place? The Management Board will answer you for not listening. We're moving on to a decision on the agenda in general. I'm putting on a vote on the draft agenda in general. For 121 against 82, it didn't vote 17, a total of 220. I declare that the National Assembly has established the agenda of the eighth session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly. Dn e v n ir e d 1. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Parent Books, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, 2. Proposal for a law establishing the right to move matters entered in the register, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, 3. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Market in Papers of Values and other Financial Instruments, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, 4. Proposal for a decision on amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which Mr Bojan Pajtic, 5. Proposal for a law on liability for human rights violations, submitted by MPs Ivan Andric, Vlasimir Budimovic, Dr Milos Lučić, Ljubisa Kesic, Shandor Melank, Sima Radulović, Prof. Dr. Mirko Rosic, Prof. Dr. Dragor Hiber and Natasa Micic. The word has been made by the MP Sinisa Mitrovic, a proposal by the Rules of Procedure. It is a pity that there is no direct transmission, to see how the MPs behave in the congregation. The word has the People's Messenger Siniša Mitrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-27-0.u29917	On the basis of Article 81, given that we have established the agenda and that the regular session expires on 31 May, I suggest that the working time of our sessions lasts from 10.00 to 20.00 hours, with an interruption of one hour, until the end of the eighth session of the regular session. I ask the National Assembly to plead.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-27-0.u29918	I am putting on the vote by MP Siniša Mitrovica to extend our working hours until the end of the regular session to 20.00 hours, given that we adopted two points of urgency, while three were already scheduled. For 114, against 86, there was no 18 vote, out of 218 MPs. I am announcing that the National Assembly has accepted a proposal to extend working hours. We move to the 1st point of the agenda: - Proposal for a LAW ON SUPPLING THE LAW ON MATAL KNIGAS (principles) You have received a bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments submitted by the government of the Republic of Serbia as well. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that the total time for debate is five hours. I ask the representatives of the parliamentary groups to submit applications for the word of the MPs. Consent to Article 136. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a search in principle. Does the proposalor's representative, State Administration and Local Self-Government Minister, Mr. Rodoljub Sabic want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-27-0.u29919	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I didn't even think I was answering for a word, since the fact that the bill, although brief, none of the MPs of this assembly have put any amendments and since it is without a problem supported by both the Committee on Justice and the Legislative Committee. However, the debate just pulled me out and said a few words about a law that certainly is neither historic nor large nor reformal, but which is such that at least to a certain extent, it will contribute to improving the quality of the non-citizens of this country. There are two reasons why this law is basically proposed. One of the consequences of the fact that I will have to remind myself, that in the period, it is fortunately behind us, politically turbulent, began some 10, 12 or 15 years ago and resulted in a bloody civil war, the collapse of the then common homeland and the formation of several independent states, as one of the many terrible consequences, and the destruction of objective and subjective ties that the number of citizens of this country had with the former republics of Yugoslavia. I stress, no number, tens or hundreds of thousands of these people, Serbs and non-Serbs, have come to this country to live and have requested the citizenship of this country. Their relationships have become completely different. It was necessary to create a chance for them to get that citizenship. The amendments and additions to the law on former Yugoslav citizenship from 1996 to 2001 created conditions for this and a large number of citizens whose citizenship of this country was not due to the fact of birth appeared, but due to other status facts, primarily to enrolment in citizenship and reception. Most of you or all of you know that the standard is to run parent books, a standard that is dominant all over the world, that other relevant status facts of citizens are guided in books headed towards birthplace. In many cases, it is either difficult or impossible for our newly admitted citizens or for citizens who have just acquired citizenship. It was very complicated in their lives, since regulation of certain status things required proof of certain status facts: births, marriages, death of a relative, etc., and that was difficult and complicated. One approach, motivated by the fact that an exception to the general rule is made and that these people are making life easier when it comes to at least these things, is that for these citizens, who were once citizens of the common state, who now acquired citizenship as citizens of these independent states created in once common territory, the exception is to create the possibility that these status facts: births, marriages and deaths, lead in our land books to the place of residence. It is useful for them, it is good for them and it will make life easier for them, and it does not question the achievement of any other useful standard incorporated into Serbia's legal system. The other thing is also related to an ugly and tragic event, for the fact that in 1999 as a state, as a result of the tragic conflict and NATO intervention on part of our territory, we lost, in fact, sovereignty in Kosovo. The authorities then withdrew their parent books from Kosovo and tried to secure their leadership and organisation on the territory of seven municipalities in Serbia, but through a mechanism that existed, through the matriarchs who did so at the time and in a rather improvised atmosphere. It's not my idea to criticize this time how the authorities did it then. Probably the way they could. It was a difficult situation, it was a delicate problem, and the books were placed in areas that were objectively inadequate, partly microfilmed in a way that was probably not adequate, but I'm saying, it's not the time for criticism. It was simply clear that the management of these books, in such conditions and in a situation where some semi-virtual administrations inherited from our former local self-government mechanism from Kosovo, cannot be adequately guided. It is no secret that there are doubts about the presence of corruption, the presence of other crimes: abuse of official office, extortion, etc. The Ministry, whose head I am, under the circumstances, has carried out certain actions to verify these facts. It's not my place to speak by names now, but I'll tell you that there are also detained persons, because there's a reasonable doubt that they've committed crimes. The Ministry of State Administration has reduced the number of powers of these matrimonials and first-degrees who led the procedure, but the fact remains that it is a service that hangs in the air, that there is no real coordination and management as it exists in the normal administrations of normally organised municipalities. The policy of this law is that these jobs, precisely in the interest of what I've been saying, are entrusted to municipal administrations, indeed the existing seven municipalities in Serbia. That's good, that's useful, and that's not questioning again, and it's not jeopardizing any principle in Serbia's legal system. I think it's good, until the moment we all want, until it's possible to lead on the ground again, in Kosovo, under conditions integrated into Serbia's state and legal system. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't see any reason, and I think that also confirms the atmosphere on committees and the absence of amendments, that we don't adopt this law. Let's adopt it and fix it, at least to a certain extent, the quality of life of a large number of our citizens. As for business possessions and the fact that I have or do not have the right to speak and that this should have been on the agenda or not, I will use it, not abuse the opportunity and say that we all know what it says in the Rules of Procedure. That's not at all controversial. I think the Administrative Committee has taken a position on this, and I think the government is an authorized legislator. I am not convinced that it is in accordance with the Constitution that this right in any way is denied by business provisions, especially when no one can explain to me what the law said. Do you really think 100, 200 or 5,000 citizens should wait for Minister Sabic to repeat the same proposal that Vladan Batic made a year ago, as the government's stance on the issue is the same. I thank you for your attention and invite you to support this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-27-0.u29920	National MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group, injured the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-27-0.u29921	Madam Chairman, I know that you have a richer vocabulary than your predecessor, so I guess I won't get a reminder of what I'm about to say, with the full respect of Mr. Sabic and the chairman, because now I'm going to prove to you by advertising Article 189 that you are wrong and why this proposal should be referred again by the government, or why it couldn't be found at the session today. Article 189: "The right and duty to represent the Government in the National Assembly, when considering all issues of its jurisdiction, has the Prime Minister. The government determines the members of the government representing it on a specific issue on the agenda of the National Assembly session, or session of its committee. Representatives of the government at meetings of the National Assembly and its committees can only be members of the government." You are a member of the government, but in this bill, it says -- a representative of the government at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia was appointed Dr Vladan Batic, minister of justice and local self-government. Meanwhile, the Law on Ministries has changed, you have been given jurisdiction and this area, and that is why the Assembly should have returned this bill to the government, that the government should re-propose the bill to the Assembly, with a sign of who represents the Government in the National Assembly. We didn't get it, and this isn't the exorcism of some opposition rage, whether there's a camera, no cameras, please, we have to rule within the Rules of Procedure that this National Assembly has brought, whatever it is. He's nothing, but we have to respect him. Therefore, I am advocating Article 189, an explanation that you are about to give me is probably not going to satisfy me, I am asking in advance for the Administrative Committee to declare it, but I only went out because I am saying to the esteemed colleague Sabic that he is wrong, that as a representative of the Government, he should not even have referred to the Rules of Procedure and to the work of the National Assembly, because it is not his job. His job is to explain the bill he sent to the National Assembly. We can call the minister, the minister to call us, he can never, because so far he couldn't. Everything is possible now, but it is not in the spirit of parliamentaryism. There's no telling who's right here. The government is responding to parliament. Parliament will never answer to the government.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-27-0.u29922	Your position on the violation of the Rules of Procedure is in the midst of a lack of information, because by letter 06-15561, the Government of the Republic of Serbia informed the National Assembly that Rodoljub Sabic, Minister of State Administration and Local Self-Government, was the representative of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. With the lack of information, I mean, you missed it when you were handed it along with the bill, so it won't be on the board's agenda, because it's a slip, not a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Is there any word from the committees in charge? No, I don't. ) Do the presidents of the parliamentary groups want a word? No, I don't. ) We are moving on to the debate by applying for the word of the elected Members of the people. The first registered speaker is National MP Dragisa Djokovic, followed by the folk MP Vjerica Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-27-0.u29923	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I do not know what purpose it is to speak before you 30, while according to the record, 181 MP is present. Since Mr. Minister is here, I'm going to say a few words, because one member is the most important, and as far as we're concerned, it shows how much we care about Kosovo and Metohija, that there are thirty of us in the O.R., and then I'm going to try to get some things out to the Minister to see how they stand. Under this bill, and until now something similar has been done, i.e. it has been improvised, someone who was a resident of Kosovo Mitrovica could have received a copy in 14 days, submitted a request in the home service, at best it could have been seven, if it hit the day on which the service was to the King, so it brings a copy, etc. I don't know if again on this proposal, for example if someone is, since they're formally writing, if they wanted someone from Kosovo Mitrovica to get married, whether they're going to have to call the queen's mother, or if it's going to go a little differently. On the other hand, I also want to say that I was a witness, because I had this accident that on June 9, 10 and 11 1999, I had to take out a birth certificate for a child, so I attended the evacuation of the winners of the war, who defeated NATO, they moved all the parent books out of the service. Unfortunately, and before that, in all municipalities there was such a situation, twice in the Kosovo Mitrovica municipality there was approved money, funds were taken to keep the parent books on computers, to bring it in, I mean that electronic form, as we like to say, and that would be much simpler and much better. The money's been spent, nothing's been done. What could be my concrete proposal to the minister, although I don't know if it will be appreciated, because a lot of it, unfortunately, is also suggested about information and the area of the electoral lists is not respected, to establish, and at least not a problem, direct communication, means to enter into the database where it is, to enter into the computer, and then on the route of Kosovo Mitrovica, the example works, the King, on the same day you get a copy. No one can take it from you, the book isn't, etc. I mean, if we're going to help the citizens, we could help them out like this, because we're getting a copy right now; someone who wants to get past the official queen's copy, he's got to go to the Kings, he's out there chasing relationships, he's getting better at cost, and this is how he'd do business through technique; I say, but let's be third, so it's not all, and so on and so on, building a Scadra on Bojana, because we Serbs tend to take three times the money for the same thing, and it's rare when we do it. On the other hand, I think that the existence of our parent books is in favour of the state of Serbia, it simply does not need to be denied, the currents are official documents, on the basis of these books are issued and the credentials of citizenship are being raised, the issue of some citizenship in Kosovo and Metohija is being raised. I am sorry that our delegations have defiled these days with Europe, were in Berlin, Athens, I have not heard that some government delegation, and I think that there have been some MPs from this Parliament, mentioned the issue of Kosovo, or the issue of returning exiled and displaced, and this is all about this state administration and the rest. I don't think Gerhard Schrader would be angry if our prime minister told him that Mr Steiner didn't want to return the Serbs, that he was making an obstruction on his way back and that he was just bothering us, that he was taking away our property that was in the privatisation, etc. I'm taking this opportunity to notice that we're not very much in favour of this diplomatic path to solutions on all books, on our property, on citizenship and the rest. You see the story of George Soros, our friend, or I don't know whose friend he's telling that Kosovo can never be part of Serbia again, if we're going to contribute a little bit to that, etc. These foreigners are surprised by the passivity of our foreign ministry. When I spoke to many foreign representatives, they say -- we can't understand that your country isn't responding to that and that. Simply, you're right, you're threatened here, the resolution is not conducted to the harm of non-Albanian communities, so Serbian and others, and your state is silent, does not indicate official letters, protests, there is no diplomacy, it is not in other institutions etc. I'm afraid we won't do anything like this, not fighting for the parent books, and only the state, our diplomacy and our common policy and strategy, if we have it at all about Kosovo; because it's very good to say when the delegation comes from below, I ask that I return the military and the police to Kosovo; but no, that should be said at Shredder or Athens at the rally, etc., so they will approve it. If they don't approve, we can cry or talk, however you want. I say once again, maybe we should stand up and fight on this issue, we need to be clear, and when UNMIK is gone, he doesn't need the books and he won't wear them when he goes home. The motherbooks are interesting for those living downstairs, so for Serbs, Albanians, as they find the catastre interesting, so we handed them both a cadastre and a lot of things, etc. It should be advocated that the citizens' books and books, as they contribute to Yugoslavia's former and the current community of Serbia-Montenegro, the Republic of Serbia and the Serb community, should be an official document. So, this should be imposed as it was, so it should be again and that all citizens of Kosovo and Metohija are included in these parent books, as they have been so far, and so far. To be honest with you, as far as UNMIK is concerned, we can essentially play some kind of parallelism. Now you have cases that many Albanians, let's say, that I don't talk about these abuses, etc., need copies, our documents, somewhere they can't go without our documents, there's a lot to talk about, and unfortunately, there's a lot to be mixed up with. What should be the government's job, as well as everything, is to fight for it to be a united activity and that our parent books that have been valid and in which it is seen that many who have come from Albania do not have our citizenship, are not included in our parent books, etc., so that we too can fight in this way. So, unrelated to this law, it should be one of the strategies of this government and this ministry, to prove how many of us we are in Kosovo, how many of us are now, and unfortunately how many others there are who are illegally down there, usurping our property and our rights, tearing down the state of Serbia and struggling to build a wall that is created between Kosovo and the rest of Serbia up to 3-4 meters, that never again the bird will be able to fly, and not the state of Serbia to integrate together with Kosovo into the European community, etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-27-0.u29924	The People's MP, Verica Radet, has the word, and after that, the People's Messenger Vuko Antonijević. The word has the People's MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, deputy president, the SRS parliamentary group, and then the People's MP Vjerica Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-27-0.u29925	The proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Parent Books, truth, contains only two members, of which the latter provides only when the law enters into force. You'd say there's nothing to talk about. However, this is an opportunity to draw up in principle issues related to refugees and in general citizens and citizens of our country, since citizenship is a public character, i.e. the attitude of a state and individual, on the basis of which an individual enjoys certain rights and has certain obligations, but the same state has certain obligations to that individual, or to its own citizen. The law on Yugoslav citizenship states that the facts of republican and federal citizenship are entered in the book of birth, and we keep the citizenship records in the citizens' home book. Avoided persons who, after these changes, acquired Yugoslav citizenship, who were not born in the territory of the SRJ, i.e. now the state union of Serbia-Montenegro (although we have SRJ in reason here, and should stand the state community, since the government had had the opportunity, that this act was referred to the Assembly again, we would not have the wrong name of the state in which we live) were neither included in the parent books born in our country nor had they had the possibility of entering their civic status in the parent books. In an explanation, the Government has hypocritically argued: given that citizenship is a public character relationship and a lasting legal relationship that binds the individual to the state, this should provide the individual state with the exercise of human and civil rights, as well as special legal protection abroad. The question arises, whether our country is doing so and what is the case with those who, in their own capacity or in their own capacity, represent the state in a certain way and make state decisions or make statements that in a certain way bind the state itself and the state authorities. All these statements or all of these decisions have certain repercusions on all citizens, or on all of its citizens. First of all, I mean civil rights and the protection of domestic citizens, I especially potential legal protection abroad and from foreign authorities. Therefore, the question arises, could, for example, the official of this common state, as Minister of the Council of Ministers, be given a statement that we will waive the requirement for war damage compensation, and such a statement, of course, obliges that state whose minister he is, thereby jeopardising the right of each of us to seek such damage, which is our fundamental human right, guaranteed by all international conventions. Mr. Tadic, as defence minister, can speak as a citizen, but as a minister, he cannot. It must take care of the interests of the citizens of this country, or of the citizens of this country. In his statement, as he gave in Brussels, he amnests those who bombed and killed and destroyed us for 78 days. We had a Tito in the last century, and believe me, I think that's enough for two centuries, we don't need a new little titoist who'll forgive what's coming to us by all the international rules, or what we're entitled to. No one has the right to give it up. If this government makes such a mistake, political responsibility and leaving certain political functions will be no satisfaction to this troubled people. I wonder why none of the authorities, why none of the representatives of the majority and in this parliament and in that other parliament, said anything about that Tadic statement and why he did not take us as citizens from such statements, not to say unsupervised but irresponsible. The question arises, then, why does BiH not give up its requirement to compensate Serbia-Montenegro for war damage, which we are likely to have to pay, given the fact that this authority has done everything in international frameworks, especially in front of the UN tribunal, by the Serb people and that the Hague is being delivered by people from the state and military summits, in order to be tried for alleged war crimes, which would make both Serbia and the then JNA appear as aggressors. What kind of help does the Hague indictees and citizens of this country get from their own country? She arrests them, she extradites them, she opens military archives, aids the prosecution, helps Carly del Ponte, against her citizens. The question is, are there any of these refugees, who have yet to gain citizenship or who have acquired it, and should also be entered in the parent books, do they have in these circumstances and with such a power of interest to gain the citizenship of this country? Maybe they're better off not having that citizenship. So the question arises, which rights will be achieved by the citizens of this country, who have been admitted to citizenship, if Carla del Ponte asks for them tomorrow, and this authority is ready to hand them over. I would remind you of one case, a very recent one, which no one in power has pleaded against, at least we couldn't hear, which is the case of Emir Šisic, who received a life sentence in Italy, and we don't know how much this country has advocated to defend this man, since it is known that under all the rules the pilot can't be responsible for the execution of what he's been given command from the country. It is a clear situation that it was a no-fly zone and that those who died and who were hit were informed in advance that the zone was a restricted flight. I'll remind you of the case of the little Batajnica militia, which, by accident, thanks to the high-level bombing, lost my life to those who lost their lives on the barbaric bridge. I'll remind you of how Americans protect their citizens. Here is how they have now submitted a proposal for a bilateral agreement with the state union, so that its citizens do not respond to the International Criminal Court. That's how they protect the interests of their citizens, and we absolutely don't protect the interests of our citizens. It's just that some citizen of this country has only obligations. No rights he can achieve, nor does the state feel any obligation for its citizens in any situation, when they need that assistance. It's also an opportunity to talk a little bit about refugees, who, when they get citizenship, lose refugee status. I mentioned this because these days we hear a number of collective accommodations have to be closed. We hear that from the government people, because there are no more funds to maintain them or say -- they spend too much, they cost a lot of money to the state. So, let's accept citizenship, we'll cut costs, but we'll never worry about them again. There are 197 collective accommodations in Serbia. In Kragujevac the other day, two families with small children were expelled from such a collective accommodation and we can expect that a number of collective accommodations will be closed within the next month. So the question arises, although only formally, keeping records in the civil status books, is there at all anyone who is not born here, is he interested in becoming a citizen of this country, which only this way can take care of.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-27-0.u29926	He has the word of the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-27-0.u29927	With the simple reading of this article, which represents a proposal to amend and supplement the Law, it would be said that this government and this DOS government have finally begun to take care of refugees and displaced persons, since this member of the law applies primarily to them. Since I know and we know there's no point in that, because the way you show care for these faces is best seen these days by bulldozers. Of course, what else would the representatives of the Bulldozer Revolution do and do, break down with bulldozers what these poor people have gained and built, for, my God, they have no building permit and you will not legalize them. I don't think this member was necessary to propose at all, nor does he have the need to adopt these amendments to the law. We did not write the amendment because we know that you would abuse it and that tonight on all televisions it would be announced that the SRS parliamentary group would not accept the bill, which, behold, helps refugees and displaced persons. I'm also asking why I think this is unnecessary. There is now absolutely legal traffic with all the former Yugoslav republics. No problem is getting a copy of a book born from any city, a place in the territory of the former republics. The government, in its explanation, says that today I read in the paper, Mr. Shabic, you said that, among other things, because of efficiency, in order to get those copies faster, that this law would be proposed. Every person living in the territory of a municipality in Belgrade, for example in the Sava Venac municipality, who was born in that municipality, will receive a copy of the book born in two days. He, who also lives there, and was born in the village, for example, Levosoje, will not get that copy in about ten days, unless he has friends, relatives, acquaintances to ask them to do so, or the official parent service of the municipality where he lives from the municipality where that person was born. This even coincides with a time period for which a person from Knin can obtain a copy from a birth certificate. Someone once written in a birth certificate can't be copied. I ask you, what will happen specifically to the person who was born in Knin, will you inform the book of origin in Knin that this list where that person is written rips out of that book, that it is no longer there and that it cannot even exercise its property rights. We know very well that the property rights in those territories have not been regulated at close range. They're having problems anyway, and all they're missing is this. The next question, if you apply this member very quickly, you will also have to clone people. Knin is now under Croatian occupation. One day when Knin is reunited with a single Serbian state, then we will have the same face, written in the book of born both in Knin and in Zemun, for example. That's physically impossible. However, something else is hiding behind this proposal. Certainly not your concern for these people. This way you admit that you in DOS are slowly preparing for the election, as much as you're trying to hide it. You will be with persons who have not received citizenship to do what the Socialists have done with the Shiptars in Kosovo. You will make lists of the person for whom you have information from the Commissioner and make lists that suit you. Of course, you will not enlist those lists of persons who have received citizenship, and these are, unfortunately, little, because you know very well that those from those parts, who have citizenship, will not possibly vote for DOS. You know well that they will vote for the SRS, because they know that only the SRS has taken care of them since the beginning and that the only SRS is ready to equalize those persons in every respect with citizens born here, not just with these fictitious amendments of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-27-0.u29928	There's a word from MP Vuko Antonijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-27-0.u29929	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the People, I would like to take advantage of the presence of the Minister for Local Self-Government and to say something about the management of parent books for the area of the Autonomous Region of Kosovo and Metohija, where these parent books are expected to remain in the cities of central Serbia. I would like to say that we have a problem that one third of the Serb population left living in Cosmet, and all other non-Albanian animals, which certainly depends on ourmatic records, have big problems to reach certain cities in central Serbia for a simple copy and all that regarding that parent records. If I understand that right after the war it was necessary for the parent books to move out of the area of Cosmeta, because it was a real threat for the parent records to be destroyed, by UNMIK or by Albanians, I don't understand why today after four years we still have this situation and now we want to leave certain cities in Serbia to continue to be in charge of certain Kosovo districts and to keep the parent records. When it comes to the northern part of Cosmet and those six municipalities, the full home service could return to the territory of northern Cosmet. I see no reason if other institutions of the Serbian state function, such as the university, health care, education, why couldn't the home records go back to the premises of northern Kosovo and Metohija, because you know that the municipality of Leposavic, Zubin Potok, Zvecan and one part of Kosovo Mitrovica works there. The municipality in Priluje operates for the municipality of Vuchitrn. For the Serb municipality, we have that the municipality is situated in villages, in Serbian villages, which are inhabited exclusively by Serbian living, so there simply has to be some way. I know it's a problem for people who are employed in these parent services and that it might be a question of their employment. But it can be solved, because imagine Serbs from certain enclaves who have to come for a simple copy; first, they don't know where it is, what a problem it is. counterpart Djokovic talked about it, it can be connected electronically, so it works if it can't get everything back to Kosovo and Metohija, but it can certainly be one piece returned. As for the northern part of Kosovo and Metohija, absolutely complete parent service, even workers working in the Kingdom, their families live in the northern part of Kosovo and Metohija, so that's not the problem. If we can't get the parent service back to the oven, there can be at least one department in Gorazdevec, so that we can help these people as much as we can. To be treated like this for the purpose of moving Serbs further, rather than for the people to realize that the state of Serbia certainly cares about Kosovo and the Metohija and that service can be returned. If the parent service can't work for the Kosovo district, for example, in Pristina, a department can operate in Gracanica. You know that central Kosovo has more than 50-60,000 Serbs. If the Kosovo-Pomoral district in Gjilan has few Serbs, but there are also how they function, and the municipality of Gjilana works. Why doesn't that birth certificate have one of its own departments? As far as northern Kosovo is concerned, the full home service can return. I think it would help, because it no longer threatens the real danger that she can be destroyed. Why? Because she recorded it all on microfilms, it's all on disks. If we gave the disaster to UNMIK, why not give UNMIK and the parent books, and the disks, we would simply prevent 200,000 Albanians, who came from Albania's territory and applied to Kosovo and Metohija, that would be our asset. I know someone will always say - the problem is, but what happens to those people who work in cities around Serbia, like Nis, Kragujevac, Kraljevo and all of them are in charge of certain districts and I know about the problem, two-thirds of Serbs have been evicted. It may be because of them that there must be in these cities, but I think at this point it must be thought, in order to return, that we simply prepare these people for some return, as well as those workers of these parent services. Why don't you, for example, get your mother's service back from the King? The head of this service is from Vučitrn. All the Vučitrans came or live in Prilujje or in those surrounding villages, or live on the territory of the northern part of Kosovo Mitrovica, so that's not some excuse either. I would ask the minister to seriously consider this. In the northern part of Kosovo and Metohija - the state of Serbia does not work by being in the Kingdom - everything that could have been preserved from these institutions of the Serbian state is preserved there. So there's been a skepticism so the university can come back. He works in bad conditions, but he's back. Return the parent service. I don't mind that part of the service, just because people who are scared, stays there. There are possibilities, because today we live in a time when electronic communications are very easy. I'm asking you to think about it, too, to help people. Imagine the people of Velika Hotche, Orahovac, Gorazdevci, how they could come to take a copy. People were left without compensation for child support because they had no motherhood. They don't have valid documentation. How will they come and take it? It's really a lot of trouble. It should be thought in that direction -- or remain part of the service in Serbia, but one part should really come back. I say, the northern part of Kosovo and Metohija meets all these conditions, because in all the former districts of Kosovo and Metohija we have Serb enclaves and local self-governments operate there, even the state of Serbia pays the coordinators. They have some kind of budget, so why wouldn't one part of the service be there. Maybe to think about the next moment, that these people who work in these parent services still have a basic working relationship, means that they don't break up, they just come back for work and work where they're supposed to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-27-0.u29930	The word is from the People's MP Ljubisa Maravić. After him, let MP Dragan Lazic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-27-0.u29931	Dear Members of Parliament, Mr Minister, besides the fact that, due to the lack of direct TV transmissions, I am not sure that these words of ours will reach the public, I think it is very important that what we are talking about is heard by the MPs and that you, as Minister in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, are also hearing about this area. As an MP selected from the Socialist Party of Serbia's electoral list, I will speak of this as a subject that is not a party character, but of general national interest and importance for the state, so it really needs to be addressed. Since the time of the establishment of the rule of law, one of the basic postulates has been keeping records of both home and land books. Without the possession of parent and land books, there is no saying that, in any way, in any arbitration, and especially not international, they can in any way protect basic civil and human rights, primarily our exiled population from the space of Kosovo and Metohija. Therefore, if we, under any excuse, move this valuable documentation to where our state authorities are in fact not recognised, it basically means that we voluntarily gave up the crown evidence of our statehood in the area of Kosovo and Metohija. I'm saying this because it's a public secret that Shiptar separatists need land and parent books as one of the preconditions for declaring independence. Is the announced faceless privatisation in Kosovo and Metohija that is being conducted against Serbian interests not the best evidence for this claim? These days, we are holding an intensive session of the Kosovo and Metohija Committee. Yesterday was the session of the Committee on Kosovo and Metohija and the Privatisation Committee, the other day was the session of the Committee on Kosovo and Metohija and there were talks on the return of exiled and displaced persons. Believe me, as we open the issue, there is only then a real picture of the situation in Kosovo and Metohija. That's why we really need to take care of everything. Yesterday we heard from people who have large private capital, from Mr. Milorad Rajevic of Peći, that the complete documentation of his possession was falsified and that today the owner of his assets is Albanian, based on some of the deeds of Turkish time. Therefore, you can see what all Albanian separatists are willing to do in Kosovo and Metohija's space to prove some facts that absolutely do not stand. Does Resolution 1244 of the Security Council guarantee the return of all exiled and exiled persons to the territory of Kosovo and Metohija? Are Serbs returning to Kosovo and Metohija? No, but that's why 220,000 citizens of Albania and Macedonian citizens were moved into the area of Kosovo and Metohija. How many of our returnees are, and according to our official authorities, the number of Serbs is so large that they can fit in a few dozen buses. Does Resolution 1244 guarantee the safety of all citizens? Yeah. Is there any security? No, I don't. Every day's events absolutely confirm that. Does Resolution 1244 guarantee the return of our military police forces to Kosovo? Yeah. Is there any? No, except for the presence of international security forces and terrorist gangs dressed in the KPC, now ANU or some now announced Black Eagles, White Eagles, etc. Is the Security Council Resolution guaranteed to return the property? Yeah. Has this property of ours been returned? No, I don't. I'm saying all of this because we can't let the parent books go back to the space of Kosovo and Metohija. That there were abuses in the management of parent books and the use of parent books was spoken by the minister. I think that this area should be arranged and improved by the efficiency of work in the area, perhaps in the manner spoken by MP Dragisa Djokovic. What abuses of parent books would be if they returned to Kosovo and Metohija if we didn't speak. The parent books are the basis for the personal status records, which monitors all changes in one person's status from birth to death. Birth is the most important fact, given that a man's birth becomes a subject of law and most often it's a way of gaining citizenship. Due to the situation created by the development of SFRY, the way in which Yugoslav citizenship is acquired is adapted to the given conditions and forms of acquisition have been introduced through the institute of enrolment in the book of Yugoslav citizens. One of the criteria is residence. I'm saying all of this for one simple reason, because a special representative of the United Nations in Kosovo and Metohija is now busy with the big problem and the task he has received, i.e. by tasking with resolving the issue of citizenship of Kosovo and Metohija citizens. The solution to the status is also one step towards Kosovo and Metohija independence. How will the United Nations Special Representative handle this? We'll see. He already has a good background, as one of his predecessors in 1999 passed a regulation that recognises Kosovo's place of residence according to the city transport privilege. How these benefits are obtained and not to talk, and what do you think these 220,000 Albanian and Macedonian citizens will do in the area of Kosovo and Metohija if they come with benefits to prove their place of residence and thus acquire travel documents and get citizenship. Doesn't that change the ethnic picture of Kosovo and Metohija? I'm sure it's changing. I think it's inappropriate and I don't think we should allow it. These parent books, if they were to return to Kosovo and Metohija, agree with predecessor Vuk Antonijevic that the situation in northern Kosovo is different from the situation in the depths of Kosovo and Metohija, however, if they returned they would surely come into the hands of UNMIK's administration, because the northern municipality of Mitrovica does not exist anymore. There's a UNMIK administration. It is unfortunately as it is and part of that administration in the northern part of Mitrovica is part of the administration of the southern municipality of Mitrovica. So far it has not been, however, the latest developments since several months ago and this issue has been resolved. So I think that these books should not really return to the space of Kosovo and Metohija, but find ways and opportunities for this area to be settled, and their possible return to think after the return of exiled and displaced persons to the space of Kosovo and Metohija, when property security is secured, when the security of all people is increased, i.e. The non-Albanian population in the area of Kosovo and Metohija, when our security forces return to the space of Kosovo and Metohija, and in some ways only then think about returning those books to the area of Kosovo and Metohija.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-27-0.u29932	The word has been made by MP Dragan Lazic, and the next one is Parliament MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-27-0.u29933	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister, Madam Chairman, in order not to repeat myself with my predecessors, everything is mostly said and we do have a bitter experience when it comes to the parent books and the implementation of the Law on Parent Books in Kosovo and Metohija, I am talking about the previous law. When it comes to the Law of the Cataster and the Castra books, which is quite understandable, because you know the conditions of life below. The current position in Kosovo and Metohija reminds much of the period between 1942 and 1944, when a large number of Albanians moved to our country's territory and in some "gentleman way" by the state accepted and ultimately many of them gained that citizenship only afterwards. We also had one unprecedented experience, that another man was a state, and in this sense Fadilj Hoxha, who was at that moment Vice President Joseph Broz, a man who practically had no citizenship of the SFRY, nor FNRJ, nor the Democratic Federal Yugoslavia, was even enrolled in the book of citizens, was not included in the book of origin, and he had our citizenship and never showed those documents. What was done in the previous period in Kosovo and Metohija. You know, when the expansion started, when the demographic explosion started, then it started to lose control in the parent services and to lose control of the parent books. In front of each ten-year census, it means 1961, 1971, 1981, and in 1991 it could not be completed, there was an opportunity that was used, that many Albanians from the Ulcinian municipality, i.e. from the area of Bar, Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedje crossed over and gained status in the parent books in Kosovo and Metohija. Why did they need that? They needed it to show the majority in some way. The majority was in the spirit of some long-term policy that should be shown in the figure, that Serbs fall to below 8%, so that they could discuss Kosovo and Metohija's status differently, which they do these days and become active in the international community and in the world institutions. If they came down then they would also participate in the census, and of course they could also vote by selecting some of their representatives, but that was not only the case with Ulcinja and the southern part of Montenegro, but rather the problem with Tetovo, Gostivar, and it is mostly that area of western Macedonia. It is no accident that the Albanian architects are playing with the names of all these areas, so the current territory of Kosovo and Metohija is referred to as Kosovo, Presevo, Medvedju, Bujanovac are treating eastern Kosovo, the former Ilirid, so the western part of Macedonia is now being treated with historical Kosovo. What's this about? To lose track of all those people who would come to Pristina, to Pec, to Prizren, Gjilane, Urosevic and Mitrovica, where there are Serbs, to simply cover a complete ethnic picture and cover that ethnic picture, to show how many there are. That's why there is concern and I urge you, Mr. Minister, to look at the whole position, because we have before us a census of Kosovo and Metohija, to prepare a great deal, in order to show in some way an ethnic picture without people in Kosovo and Metohija. Even the proposal is so discriminatory, if you could look at it, that it is practically only taking a practical state and not taking any period, whether Serbs are expelled from the area or not, but who is currently in Kosovo and Metohija. We had a big accident at one point, and it could have been a chance to take advantage of it. In 1985, in Kosovo and Metohija, the then Kosovo parliament passed a law that missed the public's eyes, which is the Law on stem numbers. The law may be disputed or uncontested, but it was very necessary at that time, in order to show, around, a real figure of how many Albanians there are in the area of Kosovo and Metohija. Since the Albanian national minority or community, however you will, has used all its rights in the right way, all its rights in the state of Serbia and then the SFRJ and SRJ, they have had to be entered and received these parent numbers. These birth numbers were needed for the exercise of rights when it comes to personal income, when it comes to pensions, child support, because you know they had a lot of children. Somehow, there was always thinking about whether it was the right number. It was taken plus - minus 10%, that they didn't have time to sign up. There's been some information that there are 950,000 registered with home numbers. If you add another 10%, that's a 1,000,000 figure. It happens in the period until 1989-1990. Is it possible for some of the established 1991 census -- when taken, if you remember well, and you should remember, some parallel between the previous population census in 1981 and some parameters treated at the average population population rate during the year -- to have some 1.950,000 figures. It's an expansion that can't even be printed on paper, because it was well known that the natural growth of the population of the Albanian population in Kosovo and Metohija was somewhere in the size of Urosevic. It is approximately 30,000 inhabitants during the year, with the average rate of mortality of Kosovo and Metohija never being counted. That's very important, because then you lose a complete picture of what the real number of those people who lived down there is. Of course, I'm talking about the Albanian national community. If in ten years that percentage was taken, without that mortality rate, it could have been about 350,000 or 400,000. What about that 500,000, which is over it written down? Of course, if you took the birth certificates of any place, you'd see ten of the same names and names. If you went to the village to check which one is under one name or another, you wouldn't be able to get the right character. One appears, and where the other is with the same name and last name, even the same year, and then a certain date of the previous month or the month to come. Not to mention what was going on, that they were signed up and unborn and died in their mother's books. Indeed, we have one dreary picture of the entire parent service, of the parent books and of the demographic structure in Kosovo and Metohija at all. When all of this comes together, I came out more because of this appeal to look at the existing situation, to take into account that fluctuation, as someone professionally calls it on the route of western Macedonia - south of Serbia - Kosovo - Montenegro, to seriously point to the international community and if that census is made, to pay attention in the right way, because I fear that we will come back to the position of 1944, when we have all the juturas, as our people would say, into the books, and after that we have had these problems with both the parent books and the state as a community.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-27-0.u29934	The word is from MP Zoran Krasic, the SRS parliamentary group. The next to be reported is MP Djura Lazic, the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-27-0.u29935	I applied for a word to propose to the government to withdraw this bill and to give us a complete, brand-new bill that will fully settle the question of parent books. They matured the conditions for this because the existing text of the law also contains too many archaic terms that practically mean nothing, and you will see, in almost every member of the original text of the law, the term "SFRJ citizen" appears, and that, you see for yourself, is no more. There are a few reasons, besides this, why it takes this law to get back to work. This is a member who, in practice, is very precisely defined as the municipal and city administrations that run the parent books for individual municipalities from Kosovo and Metohija. It must not be written in law, it must not be so precise to describe and define an organ, a team before taking parent books is a entrusted state business. If we put aside this article of the bill and look at the original text of the law that is still being applied today, then there is only one provision in this whole law that mentions the Assembly of the City of Belgrade as the body of local self-government to decide which town hall to run the parent books for a very specific category of people, where this fact of birth, the conclusion of marriage and death happened abroad. So it is inappropriate to define something in such a precise way in the law, but to leave space for the government that enforces and enforces the laws to regulate it in a different way, which the previous government used. As a consequence, we have that these very important books are saved, located in these municipalities, of course, waiting for the moment when they should return to their original locality. The second problem with this law is that, by supplementing Article 23, he continues to talk about Yugoslav citizenship, and we no longer have that today. Go to any authority to seek assurance of citizenship and you will get that it is a citizen of the Republic of Serbia and Serbia-Montenegro. It is probably here that the term "Yugoslav citizenship" is retained also because of the fact that some people have joined our citizenship in those two very characteristic ways: acceptance and entry into the book of citizens. We make the law today, when there's no such thing as termologically anymore. The 2001 bill, with amendments in 2002, was passed in 2003, when even the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, or Yugoslav citizenship, did not seem very unpleasant. Basically, this bill solves two groups of refugees, one from Kosovo and Metohija, unfortunately, where enrolment and bookkeeping is not as big a problem as those refugees who came from the western territories of the former SFRY. When it comes to these citizens who have come from Republika Srpska and Republika Srpska, who have been expelled, we are also faced with a problem that they carry their home numbers, and this information is entered in the birth certificate. Since it is a basic book, it is carried out in two separate places, it must not even be in the same room, etc. It'll be one problem to make quality records. It's this legal-technical dimension. We did not get an answer here from the government's representatives, given that in March 2001, the possibility to acquire Yugoslav citizenship was given, as those cases were resolved in terms of enrolment in the Serbian-born birth certificate. Where are they listed? I therefore propose that you prepare a new law and define in special provisions the very conditions concerning the temporary situation in Kosovo and Metohija and the fact that some people have received Yugoslav citizenship and that this must be followed by a corresponding entry in the birth certificate. Perhaps the state should also ensure, in a way, that other facts, the conclusion of marriage, death, are recorded in that former republic where the original birth certificates are kept for that new citizen. So there are two large legal-technical issues and there is a major insurmountable political problem. I'm not going to point out what my predecessors said, but there's no excuse that at least one copy of the parent books is not being run in those municipalities in Kosovo and Metohija where possible, so in what form, let the Government evaluate it. Whether it will be a trust, whether it will be an office, whether any other form of organisation of the affairs of the state administration, evaluate, regulate it, technical means exist that a man from Gracanica declares the need to issue a copy of the birth certificate, regardless of where the state should run it, because the state is leading it, not the Royal Municipal Authority or anyone else. They only do it as a trusted job on behalf of the state. So to ensure that these people can lift up there and thus gain the feeling that Kosovo and Metohija, that it is Serbian and that it is part of this state. Please, when you propose laws, don't forget one thing, you came to power thanks to the parole that as soon as you win the elections, all Serbs will return to Kosovo and Metohija, as well as those 6.5 billion waiting at the border, only to drop the rotten regime. I'll remind you, you objecting, the Democratic Foreigners did not allow a meeting, there, those friends of yours, your sponsors. Don't go on their hands, but give a normal law to tell -- there's Serbia, there's Serbian citizenship, there's birth certificates, there's supposed to be birth certificates, there's the only right path to who's a citizen and who's a resident of this country, you can see in our books. That's the law you're offering us.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-27-0.u29936	The word has the People's MP Đura Lazic, the SPS parliamentary group, and the next reported for the word is MP Milorad Mircic, the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-27-0.u29937	The Honorable Presidency, Mr. Minister, colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, this proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Parent Books seems to be a less significant law, but I believe that at least once or more, each of us has gone into the home service and knows how important this law is and how important the parent books are, because that's how it all begins. Every document, everything that needs to be regulated by law, must begin with a copy of the book born and the rest, there is a belief of citizenship and so on. So we shouldn't just go so lightly over the proposal for this law to amend and supplement the Law on Parent Books. I'd like to set the bill in two. First, the proposed text of the government refers to people who have received our country's citizenship, and should be inserted into the parent books, and that's quite all right, because indeed, the people, hundreds of thousands, from Krajina, Bosnia and Herzegovina, have been persecuted, have found shelter here and should really be able to solve this issue, because we know that there have been problems on that plan. The second part, as regards Kosovo and Metohija, we have seen from the debate so far, from the presentation of several MPs from Kosovo and Metohija, how many problems people face only when it comes to this. Each debate shows that there are many of these issues that need to be discussed, and I am surprised that fellow MPs today did not support the SPS parliamentary group's proposal to put on the agenda a motion for a resolution on the protection of state and national interests in Kosovo and Metohija. Many on boards, on the Committee on Kosovo and Metohija, and on other committees, point out these problems, and today there was no support when we were to agree on one state and national issue, to bring together a declaration to support the government and other state authorities and to send a message to the Security Council, because the work is a terrible violation of all rights and the state's shutting down in the areas of Kosovo and Metohija. We have kept silent before that obligation, I mean most MPs, or MPs from the ruling coalition. Why, when we see how important only one question is without talking about other questions and mentioned by other predecessors. And now I'd like to speak to Mr. Secretary. I would suggest to Mr. Minister, when it comes to the parent books of Kosovo and Metohija, two things. First, in his opening statement, he said that there were some gaps in the work by individuals, bribes, corruption, and, if there are such, legal measures are being taken against them immediately. Don't look across individuals at all these services that work from seven to nineteen hours with these books, with these people, issue documents to people who come under very difficult circumstances to provide that documentation. I've had several occasions to stop by there and see how they work, and I really don't need to demean that work, but I need to make it modernized, because we've done micro-recording all these parent books, to computerize this work, because if you stop by the home service, say, when it comes to Bujanovac, he's loaded with books, they're full of dust, and they have to work from 7:00 to 1900 hours, the lines are in front of those offices, and there's really something that needs to be done on that plan. Don't let these provisions, Mr. Minister, here in the proposal to amend the Law on Parent Books, transfer powers to the municipalities you mentioned, which take over the affairs of municipalities from Kosovo and Metohija, to shut down the functioning of Kosovo municipalities, not to be taken over by the workers of these municipalities, and those people who have worked on those books so far to lose their jobs. Everything can be organized. That's one thing. Secondly, I am aware that there are also books of origin in these municipalities that you mentioned, because these services are now functioning, and in the middle, there are a large number of environments in Kosovo and Metohija, large Serb villages, large Serb oasis, and there should also be parent services there. Since home services are within the local amoe-government, or the Ministry of Local Self-Government, why don't we find a modus for one of these parent books to be stationed there, because that's where children are born, that's where people die, that's where they get married, and that's where they're registered, not that they're going over a hundred, 200 kilometers and more, to expose themselves to costs and dangers, but they can be solved in this way. If you have no intention of sticking to the one about the abolition of parallel institutions in Kosovo and Metohija, those agreements that have been talked about. If this is your intention, in accordance with this agreement on the abolition of parallel institutions in Kosovo and Metohija, to shut down these services and jobs into central Serbia, it is a terrible political and fundamental mistake. I would ask you not to make this mistake, but in all areas, there are large villages, he mentioned one of Gjilana's colleagues, Pomoravlje, not the municipality of Gjilana in Ranilug, but in Šilovo, it's the county of Gornji Kus, there are 38 Serb, pure Serb villages, large, where there are local offices, communities, there people work and one of them should be baptized there, and baptized as - the outcast ward of parent service to help that people who are there, and to keep and preserve the identity of our country's parent books in these environments that you mentioned in the bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-27-0.u29938	The word has been made by MP Milorad Mircic, the SRS parliamentary group, then MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic, and also by the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-27-0.u29939	First of all, I think that the Prime Minister's representative, and in this case a fellow minister, will accept this suggestion from the SRS, so that, if nothing else, a technical and legal correction will be carried out. This is a law that was proposed in 2001 and stands in Yugoslavia. It doesn't exist anymore, of course, now we won't be maligned by whose merit and whose pledge. It exists only in these old, staunch proposals to amend and supplement the law and in statements by the Serbian Prime Minister, who told us the other day that Mr. Schroeder would visit our country in June, as he says, in a few months' time he will come to Yugoslavia. The June moon is in a few days, but good. On the side of it. There are far more serious reasons why the government had an interest in proposing such an amendment to the law. The minister, apparently inheriting this from his colleagues, has not fully stated the facts why this is important. Not only because of the refugees and the exiled population, but it matters, Mr. Minister, and because of our diaspora, which is not so small. In fact, as far as enrollment is concerned, that is, conditionally, a minor problem compared to the problem faced by the evasive faces. So their main problem is not only the status issue, but the issue of existence and citizenship. At this time, there is no longer a clearly defined institution to apply for citizenship. It used to be an SMUP, and now it doesn't do any organs. The condition is neither, because it is not clearly defined who is in front of the Serbia-Montenegro community in front of Serbia, which is the body and what is the ministry, which is the body responsible for receiving and issuing citizenship assurances? None. That could've been solved. The fundamental problem facing people who have been avoided or expelled from Republika Srpska and from Republika Srpska is much greater than this. This was regulated by the Law on Citizenship and the Federal Constitution, which you said by the very fact that the federal state was abolished was not valid. They were a clear basis by which such persons could get citizenship, as they could be entered in the parent book. The second part of this problem has just been current these days. You, gentlemen, have made it clear, of course, not personally, but rather the newly elected or imposed refugee commissioner, defending the Croatian Commissioner for Refugees or as they say the Commissioner, or as the secretary told you, that refugees no longer have the right to live in collective housing. There's no such thing as a right anymore. We are faced with a reason why the refugees do not decide to take citizenship, and this is from the earlier problem, where by taking and entering the citizens' book, they lose all rights, the right to resolve their existence, which comes down to the fact that they are being denied humanitarian aid. So, we don't have the corruption of the Serbian people, and others that don't belong, we put them in an unspeakable situation, in an even worse situation. What's the point? These people need to be helped, by passing logical legal acts, by passing an act on citizenship, clearly defined on what basis they can be entered in the citizens' book. If the status of citizens is obtained, it is clearly defined, then it is entered in the parent books by automation. The special section concerns people who have been expelled from Kosovo and Metohija. It would be logical to continue to run the parent books in these municipalities in Kosovo and Metohija. We did not give them up, nor do you have the right to do so. Maybe you'll do it. Maybe you're up to it. You've got a lot on your mind. I'm not saying, in any case, for those of you who are here, but for whoever you chose to represent you down in Kosovo and Metohija. Every day, he bombes the public that he is at odds with Steiner because he is fighting for the rights of the Serb people and non-Albanian lives, as he likes to say. Behind that, we have enough political experience, the intention of simply destroying in all traces the existence of Serbs in those areas. It is perfectly normal for the modernisation of the parent offices to solve the problem of whether the man who is currently displaced in Belgrade, who has been displaced from the space of Kosovo and Metohija, is able to lift his birth certificate from the municipality of Vozhdovac, which is now a technical issue, that is modernization, it is computers. It always says that his place of birth, of birth or of his child is the municipalities of birth, of Kosovo and Metohija. It's all a technical question, it's just a matter of speed. The third segment, it's diaspora. You can't possibly solve that problem. You have an obligation to these people. You have a much greater obligation because you have deceived these people. The Serbs in the diaspora, you were deceived, you were financed, you were promised towers and cities, you were bringing in what is falsely represented to be the Crown Prince and that he further deceives them in your name. Now you can't solve their problem, not the voice right problem, it's your fakes and your bluffs, they've seen it a long time ago. They have a status issue, what is the number of our children born abroad. They don't have any rights. They're apatrides. They don't know where they are, in heaven or on earth, so what's going on, what's the result. There are more and more of them who decide to take the citizenship of a country where they temporarily live or work temporarily. From this small corps of our people, we're losing a significant number of these people. Their question must be resolved by giving automatic citizenship, by introducing the following parent books, is the basis, when it comes to resolving the status issue and many of the issues and problems we face, at some priority, in some other place than the place of citizenship.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-27-0.u29940	The word has the People's MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic, and the next one declared for the word is MP Petar Jojic. Here you go. You have seven and a half minutes and two registered speakers.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-27-0.u29941	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, one of the shortest proposals for amending and supplementing the law signed by Justice and Local Self-Government Minister Vladan Batic, so I was afraid that Mr Sabic was not only here as a MP. But they assure me he's still a minister, and as long as he doesn't know. The whole draft law amending and supplementing the law consists of one single member saying that the facts of birth, the conclusion of marriage and the death of the citizen of the SFRY, of the deceased state, and in the meantime we buried another state, who had the citizenship of the other Republic of the SFRY because a citizen of another country was created in the territory of the SFRY and who acquired Yugoslav citizenship, is entered in the parent book at the place of his residence. That's not bad. So far, we have had cases where the parent books born in Kosovo and Metohija are kept by some buds, in some wet rooms, where unkind officials and officials work and where it was a miracle and true art to gain confidence in citizenship for people, who were born in the territory of Kosovo and Metohija or some other country, members of the former SFRY. These books were destroyed, regardless of microfilm, threatened with danger, as some books were kept in some Serb enclaves even in churches and where conditions existed in Cosmet. There was a great danger that the tooth of time would do its part, that these unhealthy conditions of keeping those books would one day defile the clue that these people had ever existed and lived in this country. Now these jobs will be done by some other authorities, which will be provided by the state in the budget with certain resources, to take care of it and it will probably be much easier to come up with beliefs and other things that are necessary for these people to start a working relationship, for something similar, in the case of elections and so on. But, ladies and gentlemen, these people's problem isn't just being solved this way. It is an opportunity to say this in principle debate, in many cities collective centres are being closed and some institutions, hotels and resorts are being privatised and refugees have been removed, whether born in Kosovo and Metohija or another former Yugoslav republic. I mean not only the Serb population, but also the citizens of mixed marriages, the citizens of other nationalities lived in these refugee centres. There was really no discrimination, since everyone was treated the same way. I personally know that by touring many centers, for example in the village of Source near Svrlig, in Nis, there were really difficult conditions, but as many states as the Red Cross and the Donors could do, these people were provided with living conditions, which were far below decent, but that was the only possible thing. Most importantly, there was no division, where someone was given more or less, unless there was that store, which is so characteristic of the exercise of power, each, and above all of this DOS government. What I'm saying is that, first of all, these people need to be able to get jobs, work, even if there was this method of positive discrimination, to get jobs under the same conditions, to start working relationships, and to support their children, to no longer live on the burden of the state. It's not just paper, it's just that these people have to be fully accepted by the environment, become part of that environment, participate together in construction and work, and that they can support themselves. These days, we are witnessing the destruction of the peers of lawlessly erected objects. All right, we can agree that criminals, murderers, robbers are not allowed to legalize these objects. You'll say they've acquired in an unholy way, they've robbed, they're responsible for the deaths of many people, for the misfortunes of many people. But houses and people who have lost anything in the republic they have lived in before or in Kosovo and Metohija are being destroyed, and they are not given a chance to legalize these facilities and now live on what they themselves have done. We've had cases that the Zemun municipality, under radical rule, has assigned a huge number of plaques, on which houses are built and now threatened to be destroyed, that there will be removals of these objects. If that happens, those people will be back on the street. Remember, collective centres are gone, international aid is getting smaller and smaller, and by receiving citizenship, there will be no more evading persons. They'll be citizens of this republic. They will run out of opportunity to rebuild what is to be destroyed. And there are already many announcements, already done, starting with the removal of numerous kiosks, where many of them worked, hired their families and their children. It was their only source of income. So it should be dealt with by law like this. We can't say that it's a bad thing that's been proposed, it's been standing since 2001, not on the agenda of the National Assembly. It is good that it has come to the agenda, but we must defend these citizens in such a way that we react sharply, that the government reacts sharply, that the National Assembly will react sharply to every statement by Soros, which says that Kosovo and Metohija will never again be returned to Serbia's state-law framework, because it says that these refugees will never again report to their birthplaces, where their property is. We don't care if we put them in books, when every trace of the existence of Serbs and other non-Albanian population will be destroyed. It must react to all statements by Steiner, send diplomatic notes, not allow it to be the one, who will sell the country in advance, that it decides in advance, before Kosovo's status is finally resolved, on who will do what and how it lives in Kosovo and Metohija. Ladies and gentlemen, it's not enough just to pass laws, which Mika Antic would say: here's the least song, less than a grain of macaque, and here's the law smaller than a grain of macaque, you have to do everything you can to help these people. It's not bad either, but it's much more important what I was talking about, letting them get a job, build their houses, get involved, and first of all get back where they came from. They weren't poor, they were poor. There's their land, there's their property, there's their property. That's where their graves are. This is what this National Assembly should primarily do, and only in the end and in laws like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-27-0.u29942	I'm setting a break of one hour. [[After break - 15.45]] Dear ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we continue our work. We need to determine if we have a quorum for the follow-up. I figure we have a quorum and we can keep working. One brief notice. In the stenographic notes it is incorrectly stated, and the comment was given by MP Zarko Obradovic, the order of the agenda points. It is placed as the 4th item of the agenda - Proposal for a Law on Liability for Human Rights Violation, which is actually the 5th point, and the 4th point is the Proposal for a Decision on Amendments and Supplements to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Since the parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, I ask if one of the presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups is applying for the word. First, the objection to the Rules of Procedure, MP Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-27-0.u29944	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Article 101 by the Chairman. With that in mind, I'd like to read part of the stenogram from the afternoon session. The sentence I put forth is this: "It is a kind of usurpation of authority by the President of the National Assembly. We're also used to her incoherent arguments about all the promotions of MPs. President: Mrs Pop-Lazic, on the basis of article 101, I give you a warning about the insult you made." In this regard, Article 101(1), (2), (3) and (4) speaks of the fact that the President of the National Assembly has the right to warn and Article 102. - when warnings are made, and under the indent of one - the MP who approached the speaker without the permission of the President of the National Assembly; under the indent of two - who speaks before he has asked and received a word; under the indent of three - who, in addition to the example of the President of the National Assembly, speaks of a question that is not on the agenda; indent four - if he interrupts the speaker in either speech or disrupts the speaker, or otherwise threatens the freedom of speech; the next indent - if he presents facts and assessments relating to the private life of other persons; then - if he uses curses and offensive expressions; the last indention - if other proceedings violates the order at the sitting or treats against the provisions of this Rules of Procedure. I don't know what kind of breach of the Rules of Procedure I've done? Which of these indents contained in Article 102 refers to what I said in my presentation. I guess I used a curse or an offensive expression. If it's a "indeed" curse or an offensive expression, I have nothing to add to it. But I ask the Administrative Board to declare whether Gordana Pop-Lazic, in this way, has injured the Rules of Procedure, and if I did not - did the chairman then hurt the Rules of Procedure by giving me the measure, not knowing why. Or, if you want to do this -- let the Administrative Committee make a statement about what the word "indeed" means and whether it is offensive. I'll be happy with that, too. But I'm asking that this be the subject of an administrative committee's debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-27-0.u29945	You made a good guess. It's about a violation of Article 102, indent 6. I've never told you that you're speaking indifferently, so I don't allow it, although I listen to you more than you listen to me, that someone else says that to me, for my reasons, for all the arguments I've given so far. Otherwise, of course, I don't mind that the Administrative Committee specifically giving its opinion whether there is a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I ask if they answer the words of the president or representatives of the parliamentary groups? Yes, the word has a folk letter from Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-27-0.u29946	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is astounding for us Serbian Radical Party MPs how little or almost even so interested in this bill. It just doesn't seem to represent anything significant, but if you go a little deeper into what it's going to look like in the future (you're distracting me, Madam Chairman, please, provide the silence that I can speak, at least the working conditions you can provide; don't tell me behind my back as I expose it, it really defocuss). What repercussions this law will have, above all, on the status of displaced persons, those who came from Kosovo and Metohija, because only seemingly they have improved status in terms of -- we will contribute to making it easier for them to come to a copy of the parent books and these parent books will be God-knows-how neat. But as this will continue to reflect on the status of Kosovo and Metohija, it is obvious that no one is thinking in this House, and not even the heads of Parliament's clubs have found it appropriate to declare the bill's proposal, not even the head of the SPS Parliament's club, which today had a proposal for a declaration on Kosovo and Metohija, and the MPs of the MP club today spoke about this particular problem that concerns the citizens coming from Kosovo and Metohija. I really can't find a subtle explanation for that. But in the morning session, I was talking about the draft law since 11 October 2001, and now I'm going to talk about the draft law from 1 February 2003. From what I understand, we have two draft laws here. I would like to point out once again, when we talk about some draft law in principle, we should not refer to the amendments that follow, because we are talking about the bill that the government has sent us and that here some rules of conduct, which was always there, after we have completed the principle debate and after that proposal has been accepted in principle, we would go into discussion in particular. It happened that the proposal didn't go into principle, so we don't have a discussion in particular. Now we've turned everything on the tubes, we're talking in one rush, and we're talking about a bill in principle and details, and we're talking about a vote when it comes to order. That's why normally when I talk about the bill in principle, I don't look back on the amendments, but this time I really do, because we have amendments to this bill, and it changes it by the government. In fact, we have a brand-new amendment and addition of the Law on Parent Books, because the government gives us three amendments on February 1st 2002. These amendments are amended by two other members of the Law on Parent Books, which are not treated at all by the previous Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law. Here we have this announcement, which I have previously advertised, that the representative of the Government of the Republic of Serbia in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will be determined by Vladan Batic, the minister of justice and local self-government. I still haven't received that notice that Mr. Sabic will represent the government. It's probably gone off somewhere. You said in the afternoon session that you had scheduled a session seven days before the session day, or in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, and I claim that you did not, because I was in the Assembly every day, because I had this session on Thursday, because I worked with my colleagues on the amendments on Friday. We're constantly deluding each other here, and I don't think that's good. First of all, the government couldn't bear these amendments. The Rules of Procedure make it clear who submits the amendments and when they are submitted. The government may submit an amendment only during the particulars vote, in writing, if the need for an amendment has arisen as a result of the previous acceptance of another amendment. So this doesn't exist for me. Minister Sabic can say that it is a form, that it is irrelevant, but you as a lawyer know very well how important the form is and how important it is above all and how much things cannot be done essentially if they are not formally correct. So this is the new bill, and it's supposed to be like that, not playing hide and seek here. Even in these amendments, please speak of SRJ citizenship. You couldn't speak any differently, because this is February 2002. Was that not the reason for you to go now with a new bill of law and now that the text of the law will stand, whether it will be the citizenship of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro or whether it will be SRJ citizenship. That's the only answer I'm looking for and nothing else. It is very important that this job be done and that we could endure the amendments as you have submitted -- but our members of the law would be rejected, when the MPs do so always reject it, allowing only members who change -- we would force you to do a lot of things, and it would contribute to making a single voter list. It's your job, and you run away from that job, and whenever we talk about a single voter's list, and apparently the elections are ahead of us, you say -- we have it, it's a set of individual electoral lists of local self-governments. No, and that's not how you put it in your head. That's one thing, but it's not. We don't even have a unique list of citizens. Why do I have to go for citizenship in Jagodin or Securich, and I can't get a citizenship or birth certificate here on my computer. That's what you should do, it's a job for your ministry and for the state administration and local self-government. What you're planning with displaced persons from Kosovo and Metohija would have to be kept in those municipalities that exist under our law. You know that we have the Law on Territorial Organization, you know that in Kosovo and Metohija we have 29 municipalities, and if you once wrote in the books that someone who was born in Peca is now in the Kingdom, it's over for all time. There are no Serbs down there anymore. Is anyone thinking at all, and we have seen that you are accusing each other in the government, even in the ruling majority of you having no program, that you have no solutions for Kosovo and Metohija, that you do nothing. You made them write down, you made them go to parliamentary elections, to local elections, and now you're going to force them, you're not going to politically drive them, you're not going to appeal to it, but by law you're going to force them to enroll in their parent books in Kragujevac, Kraljev, Belgrade, where they already live and say good-bye to Kosovo. I know you don't care. You said in the hallway before, we don't care about the books. I've heard that, but it's your private opinion and I believe you won't do it again at the pay phone and I don't recommend you repeat it. (Milka Marinkovic, from the post: And you die for Kosovo. ) Milka, you've also charged your official trip and arrival at the session, since you've come to the service car. I saw you outside the assembly yesterday. Milka Marinkovic, from the scene: What do you care? I'm gonna care about a lot of things. Besides, Mr. Shabic, I really didn't have the opportunity to hear you speak out loud about this law, so I looked at the stenogram. I'd like to look back at a few points on your exposure. You say there are two reasons why this law is basically proposed. One consequence of that fact is that during a turbulent period of 10, 12, 15 years, civil war fell apart by then a common homeland and by building on its territory several independent states. Perhaps it was a common country for you, for me it was never, nor will it be. Hundreds of thousands of people, millions of people went away and that, as well as you say Serbs and non-Serbs, came here. Why did these non-Serbs seek refuge in the country of Serbia if we fought a civil and genocide war. That's the question, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-27-0.u29947	I'm warning you of an overrun of the time allowed.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-27-0.u29948	It's true they came, they're welcome, but that just confirms this, that Serbia has never waged genocide wars.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-27-0.u29949	Are any of the other authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups applying for a word? No, I don't. ) I am concluding the principle of shock. In accordance with Article 136(3) of the Financial Regulation, I'm opening my rules of procedure to review the draft law in particular. The government of the Republic of Serbia submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. The Justice and Administration Committee has accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The government of the Republic of Serbia has tabled an amendment proposing that Article 1a be added after Article 1. The Justice and Administration Committee has accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The government of the Republic of Serbia has tabled an amendment proposing that Article 1b be added after Article 1a. The Justice and Administration Committee has accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Since we have completed a review of the bill's proposal in particular, I ask if the proposing's representative, Minister Rodoljub Sabic, wants the final word?
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-27-0.u29950	Madam President, in my opening statement, I said that the fact that there are no amendments, even on such a brief bill, assures me that the solutions from the law are still useful. I then said - no historical law, but the law that should, at least for a crumb, and it will not be just for a crumb, to improve the quality of life of citizens who were once citizens of the former republics of the SFRY, and now are citizens of Yugoslavia and to bring a little bit more order into the management of the parent books of municipalities from Kosovo and Metohija, which are now being conducted in Serbia and outside Kosovo. So I'm talking about something that's a fact. I think it's my duty to look back at a few observations, because most fellow MPs, of course using their rights, spoke more about global issues that are related to this law, but it's not about law standards. There were a few proposals that were concrete, a few suggestions and a few questions, so it's time to answer them. First of all, it was the idea of electronically covered parent books, not microfilms. I totally agree with that. It's a modern idea. Oh, my God, we'll be waiting for some very reasonable time to have electronic communication. The law must be part of an existing system. Unfortunately, we at the ZUP, where it was not possible to intervene until recently, which is federal law, have no evidence formula in an electronic packaged document. We've got microfilms. Of course, this is a good idea, and it should be considered within the limits of its own possibilities. When I get that chance, I'll take care of her. It was another idea to return the books to Kosovo or at least return them to the extent possible. I remind you that in Kosovo, the situation is what it is. I fully agree with the MPs from Kosovo who spoke here that it would be good, that it would be wonderful if the books were returned to Kosovo. Not only the books, but the prosecutions, and the courts, and the police, but today it's not like that. A responsible attitude towards what it is and the state's business, it's not to expose these collections of credentials to any risk. They'll come, hopefully, a time when we'll bring them back safely. Finally, the third argument was that, at least in the case of solutions for new citizens, it was a simple demagogue solution, because my God, relations between the former republics have improved so much that almost the same thing from the Virgin Bridge and from Palilula gets some assurance that is needed. My dear friends, that's just not true. Ask these people who got citizenship, they'll testify better than I do. I must, without the intention of plowing, since I was called, because my colleague Pop-Lazic from this pay phone said one harsh false thing, that I don't care about the public books that Serbia has and that I said it in the hallway and that she heard it well. She obviously didn't listen well to me and in the future let her listen to me more carefully. I said I don't care about Croatian books, not in terms of underestimating those books, but in terms of my responsibility. The Serbian government and I are responsible for those in Serbia. Dear colleagues and colleagues, as I said at the outset, I don't think this law is epochal, it's not reformal, it's not big, but it will improve certain living conditions of a large number of our citizens and I urge you to vote for it.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-27-0.u29951	I thank Mr. Secretary. I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. We're moving to agenda two. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-27-0.u29952	Dear colleagues, I really don't know what this is about. We have three amendments to the government, we have a report from the Legislative Committee, maybe the Justice Committee, I really didn't see it, I didn't get it. Lately, it's obviously not a good correspondence, and even the consolidated text of the agenda is getting wrong. But we need to talk about these amendments. The government has submitted amendments, although it has no right to submit amendments. Please, in this situation, it should be terminated until the Administrative Committee has declared whether or not the Government can submit an amendment, and then we can see, if it says it can, that we can discuss these amendments. We can't put ourselves in this stalemate position -- the government's giving us a proposal, so give us the amendments that change the proposal, and we, what are we here? Does any authority in this assembly work at all, to which we have transferred some powers: the Legislative Committee, the Justice Committee, the Administrative Committee? Does the president of the National Assembly make sure that all of this is in line, and he must, on the basis of Article 28, take care of it. I don't mind, you get over this, but this is one precedent that will repeat itself. Let's try it, we'll have a bill on amendments and additions to the law, as the third item of the agenda, and as regards securities of value. Change the members of the law that are not now in this proposal, let's see how the committee and how the Assembly will plead. So I specifically ask that the President of the National Assembly set a break for the Administrative Committee to decide whether or not these are possible amendments, whether they should be rejected or accepted. If necessary, give us the opportunity to say something about these amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-27-0.u29953	First of all, you reacted untimely, the search was closed. Secondly, the government has the right to submit amendments and has submitted amendments for two and a half years. Third, these amendments were submitted in February 2001 and I don't see what the problem is, the right to tell you. Of course, I'm not gonna set a break. If you are not satisfied, the Management Board, as well as the previous objections that are also useful, will also give you the answer to this question. We move to item 2 of the agenda: – Proposal for a PROPOSAL OF A PROGRAMME OF A PROGRAMME OF A PROGRAMME OF A PROGRAMME OF A PROGRAMME OF THE PROGRAMME OF THE GOVERNING RIGHT OF RESEARCH THINGS REFERRED TO IN THE REGISTR You have received the bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs: Bojan Pajtić; together Djordje Mamula and Petar Cvetković; Rade Bajić and Bora Stanimirović; Nebojsa Jović and Dragan Jovanovic; Nebojsa Jović and Jovan Todorovic; Radojko Petrić and Živodarka Dacin; Joca Arsić and Milan Janković; Rajko Baralić, Joca Arsić and Dusan Cvetković; Miomir Ilic and Golub Rajić; Radojko Petrovic and Nebojša Jović; Đura Lazić and Sreten Mitrovica; Nebojša Jović and Radojko Petrovic; Golub Rajić and Miomir Ilic; Ljubomir Mucic and Jovan Todorov; Dusan Cvetković and Radojko Petrovic; Dragovan Radovan Stamenović; Goran Žović; Goran Cvetanovic; Goran Cvetanovic Goran Žalnović; Dragač; Draga Žalnović Draga Žalnović Draga Žalnović; Dragažić Drag. Pavlovic; Veroljub Arsic; Vjerica Radeta; Lazar Marjanski; Zoran Krasic; Srboljub Živanovic; Branislav Blažić and Vitomir Plužarevic. I ask the representatives of the parliamentary groups to submit applications for the word of the MPs. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee. I remind you that the total time for debate is five hours, that it is allocated to a relative number of MPs who have parliamentary groups. In accordance with Article 136(1) of the Treaty, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a search in principle. I ask, does the word of the Minister of Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs, Mr Goran Pitic, want to be a representative of the Proposer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-27-0.u29954	The Honorable Presidency, Mrs Micic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is an opportunity to discuss also the law prepared by the government, from a package of economic laws launched in the last few weeks. This is the part that continues on those two passed laws today, especially the Financial Lising Act. So it's about the draft law on pawnage law on moving things entered in the register. First, I would say something about the importance of the law itself, and then a little bit more about the details and what this law means for legal regulation in the part of achieving business traffic in Serbia, what is the potential effect on the acceleration of business activities, and in which segments we believe that the elements of this law are improving the legal regulation that creates a space for strengthening business traffic in Serbia, the activation of capital that exists, and on the other hand, gives opportunity to those who have good ideas, which can be pawned and want to enter into certain business risks, to enter into a contractual arrangement with a potential publisher and thus contribute to new business practice that has so far been not recognizable in our country. Multiple meanings of this law. This law is important, on the one hand, for the development of the financial market. So, it gives room for one who has a financial interest in contractual arrangements between the stockholder and the hostage trustee to find the financial interest in placing that capital on the one who wants to give something as an object to the hostage trustee and thus, by exercising his right to register, to open up a potentially new site in the part of business traffic that has so far been unrecognizable. In our country, it is evident that one of the serious problems, at present, is probably a bottleneck in the potential development of businesses in Serbia, is the issue of security of claims, and especially related to lending. Neretko, each of you certainly had the opportunity to talk to those who say that it is not easy to get fresh funds, especially because those who have the means to seek serious security from these claims, and this is exactly one form that gives room for these narrow throats to be removed and that in that part that is introduced as a new institute in legal regulation, which is what is called a non-state or non-owned stock, what is not a practice so far, and even in the Law on Liaison, it was not recognizable, that in this way is introduced into business practice in Serbia. This is a new law, relying on those legal institutes that have so far been developed in Serbia, primarily on the modern law on bond relations, but I say something about these elements I will say later. As for the bottleneck in the part of Serbia's business traffic, which is the security of the claim, some of the basic features are, by this law, increasing the possibility of globally, and in the context of this non-state, non-serious stock, to trust effectively to collect their claims from debtors. We certainly recognize this as one of the problems, given the truly rich legacy of the problems that are and how they left this legacy that those who have the means have the vision to place these funds, and given that they do not have the instruments of serious security of claims from those who want to enter the contractual arrangement with them. Secondly, it is a question of protecting creditors from the potential insolvency of debtors and in cases of bankruptcy, certainly that this element which implies creating a demand security system in a way that provides space for the development of this business practice, to stimulate potential business opportunities, means that the business interests of those who want to invest, domestic and foreign business people. Unquestionably, in a situation where financial capital flows would be strengthened, which essentially affects the reduction of interest costs, more money is in circulation, greater offer of credit activities, credits, and undisputed is the first thing that needs to be done. On the other hand, what the offer itself affects with respect to the potential demand affects the reduction of costs or burdens of what is on the side of the loan, in this case interest. There are premiums, insurance and other expenses. This law gives room to encourage those who want to enter certain business risks, it is uncontestable that this law gives space to those who, I say, want to achieve a particular business, a certain business idea, want to enter into the roses of the realization of this idea, to find interest as a stockholder, and on the other hand, to have the trustee find interest, to conclude a contract in this business and register that right in the register of stocks, to create a new contractual relationship in which space is given for the development of a new part in business traffic. Normally, to mention, it's a more legal termology, but I want to mention, so these features in the demand security system give room for achieving so-called commutative justice or in other words - that this is a question of security of demand just equivalent for open credit. These are some elements that we used to manage when we were considering how to regulate matter that has so far and what arrangements in the Law on Liabilities, in some segments of supply and relations between debtors and creditors, but this segment is nevertheless a kind of business practice, which was very lapidarous in the 19th century, and essentially developed in the 20th century, and essentially parallel legal systems of continental countries do not recognise it in that real sense, so for that reason the Law of Obligation Relations itself, which primarily binds itself to solutions that are summed up from the continental legal system; simply, it is left with the gap that is being solved by this law. We have problems that sort of burden entry into debt-confidential relations, and we have some positive elements. What are negative elements, it's certainly a burden from the legacy of social property and unresolved property relations, solving the issue of denationalisation, it's certainly a question of solving what's in the land books. For this reason, it is evident that there is a type of serious heritage that does not provide the possibility of opening up the issues of the stock in that Corps in which it could be done in normal countries, and they do not have this heritage as our country has. On the other hand, we have a good legal framework, which I say again, located in the elements of the Law on Liabilities, which contains these modern rules that regulate the issue of relationship between debtors and creditors and which at all regulate issues not only protection of creditors, but also protection of debtors. These solutions were made normally in the experience of modern parallel legal systems, and on the other hand, they were based on good business practice, based on some specificity, the development of business practice in Serbia, earlier in Yugoslavia, and thus a set was created, a link between theory and practice, which was a fundamental foothold in the drafting of a law on the right of movement in the register. Our current domestic law knows two kinds of supplies. It is precisely this third part, which means non-state, that means a non-serious stock, does not recognize our current legal system, but when it comes to moving things, recognizes the so-called state stock. In other words, the object of the stock remains in the state hostage trustee and normally it is a restriction, because it cannot be used the object of the stock for either processing or working with it, or possibly selling, leaseing, etc. There's another kind of stock, it's actually a mortgage on real estate, on immovableity when it comes to the normal stay of the state in whoever's mortgager, but we notice exactly that there are certain differentials, which is that the object of the stock, which is being placed in the stock of the hostage trustee, remains in the government stockholder. This is the basic paper that gives space to what you give as a stock item, because in most cases it will be a situation that both the debtor and the stockholder are the same person, and if not necessarily, but in the most cases it is for expected and for this reason this law regulates the third form of hostage law, meaning a non-state, non-serious stock that has so far not been regulated by the Law on Liaison. The basic advantage, I said first, means, the possibility of a debtor using items of supply, processing, use, selling creates funds to pay off credit, in other words, remains the object of the stock you can make to pay off the loan you're taking from a potential trustee. Earlier, it was what remained in the state supply situation, and it was regulated by the Law on Bond Relations. Basically, it was about things that could have been given in stock, which you essentially don't need, and whether it's some jewelry, watches or something that must be a minor part of what we're talking about today. Finally, it is normal to question the problems of land books, the problems of opening a mortgage as such. For this reason, the introduction of a non-owned stock into our legal system would regulate matter that has opened up a serious space in other countries in transition for the development of business traffic, which has not been known in these systems. For example, in Bulgaria and other countries today it is about jobs that cross billions of euros on an annual basis. So it's certainly some developing sequences, and it's certain that there are certain risks, and it's also on the board when we had communication that the question is asked, so there are risks here, and what if our people start to abuse this law. This applies to any law that may be the subject of debate in the Assembly or which is in existing legislation. The point is what's the alternative; the alternative is to close the option we want to open with this law, which is that all those who want to achieve this possibility through the development of their business activities in part of an unsecured stock have that chance. This law very precisely regulates the way a settlement occurs if there is an inability or termination of a loan by a lender or debtor. It also provides for a mechanism which compensates certain shortcomings related to the Implementing Procedure Act in a way that provides and how effective the settlement procedure is. It is precisely known how the end of the law is achieved, how relations are regulated to ensure that, on the one hand, by means of a contract between the stockholder and the trustee, they ensure that, on the one hand, they perceive the risk, but on the other hand, ensure that there is potential and some profit in the risk part. These are categories that exist everywhere in the world. The fact that we are somewhere afraid of what is the experience of the whole world, that we are used to in the years behind us not wanting or afraid of what is normal and modern business traffic, is a problem that we have as a fear of the legacy that we have. This particular law is to open up a site that needs to bring capital and ideas closer together. Whether there will be abuse, there are sanctions for abuse. If there's a risk, there is. If there's a profit to that risk, there is. Whether to minimise the risk, surely there are instruments to minimise the risk, but finally, the risk is the mark of business. The risk is the mark of business traffic. Anyone who goes into business has to realize that if he didn't make a good business idea, if he didn't do what he predicted with his business plan, he must be at risk for what he got into. That risk is what's regulated by the contract, which is regulated by this law. It's a message from this law, as well as the Financial Lising Act. This law regulates a lot of elements and all that is needed to enable this position to function as a non-serious stock and stock contracts, with the most often being a collateral contract, since it essentially relates to a loan contract. It is logical or the most common form of happening that you, in parallel with the existence of a loan contract, also have a bet contract, which gets its effectiveness at the moment when the claimant is entered in the register. Everything that exists before has its own regulation that implies, if in writing it already, and not to abuse your time, it exists in the law. So there's a bond when the stock is regulated in writing. What's on the register has its right to the championship. This law regulates the priority right of the hostage trustee to be charged in relation to the other creditors in the same case of the stock, as well as on the horizontal level to other forms of claim that may exist on the subject of the stock. In this way, this relationship between the stockholder and the lender has a mechanism that ensures that everyone in this segment is recognised by rights and obligations. It's also regulated by this law. Normally, the other elements are the acquisition of publishing rights, legal facts, the subject of the law, the pledge agreement, the settlement, the termination of the law, the register. As you've seen, there are transitional provisions. It takes time and it's scheduled in the coming months to regulate the stock register. It is predicted that on 1 January, moving things will start, and from 1 January 2005 for claims. Finally, this law was developed on the basis of experiences related to models supported by the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. I have no doubt that this law can allow for reducing the risk of business in Serbia, ensuring an efficient, cheap system of establishing a pawn's right, an effective process of calming the hostage trustee, which will affect the reduction of financing costs, to shift the topic more from politics to economy. With this law, as well as others, we will still be able to move some things from some points that do not contribute to the development of Serbia; these are the laws of primary technical nature and do not have their own political connotation, so you will recognize that this is a law that needs to be supported and that we will also have the opportunity to verify by voting that the majority of the Assembly is for this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-27-0.u29955	I thank Mr. Secretary. Do they want to take part in the hearing of the committees responsible? No, I don't. ) Are the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, applying for a word? Yeah. ) The word is by MP Ljubomir Mucic, authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-27-0.u29956	Ms. Micic, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the law on the right to move matters entered in the register is a new segment of the economic law package, whose discussion we started at the previous session. The express inclusion of this law in the agenda, after seven months, based on criticisms expressed at the previous session, shows that all of this has contributed to the government's assurance that yet one such law should be passed at this time, and I particularly think it should have been discussed at the previous session and discussed together with a package of economic laws relating to financial licking. The SPS parliamentary group does not dispute the adoption of such a law, even we support the need to pass a law that will indeed try to regulate the issue of debt-confidential relations in principle, given that not only in the previous period, Mr Minister, as you said, and currently in Serbia to invest funds, both domestic and foreign loans, there is no major stability. This question at this point is really important. I also think that through this law there will be a large number of interested or potential users, from small and medium-sized enterprises, farmers, even though we have not clearly declared ourselves, agricultural landowners, all the way to natural persons. For this reason, I think that at this point it is really important for us to regulate the majority of these provisions by means of the contract, and to regulate the basic settings under this legislation, what we need to provide for this law, which is primarily the seduction of a particular order in the area of debt-confidential relations. The proposal for this law is indeed one soft text, without any declarative horrors, without imperative rules, except for the part that regulates the issue of forced charges by court, unless payment is made at the moment of maturity. I have to point out one remark that there are a lot of raving sentences. I don't know what's going on, probably caving certain things into a smaller number of members, or it's due to some part of the translation from the basic principles of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. I do not think it should be so, given that Article 2 paragraph 3 provides that this contract, regardless of whether it is the basic or the contract that will be in another contract, the credit agreement, the purchase or any other law, the Bond Relations Act, which states that the pledge agreement regulates the rights and obligations of the depositor and the trustee, or the trustee, as it is later stated in the law. This assessment is also supported by a number of contractual allies and provisions, which should be regulated by the agreement of the Contracting Parties in the contest. I think that these well-intentioned suggestions through the adoption of five amendments to the SPS Group of 19, as we have submitted, I can say that this is a rare case that we, through the amendments, have tried to correct the text of this law and in principle support the adoption and intention of this law. Finally, the vote will depend on the adoption of essential amendments to this law. Legal regulation of the security of claims by means of a supply of movable goods, rights and certain immovable items, which give fruit or income to the stockholder, is the fundamental purpose of the adoption of this law. The main objective is to create opportunities and legal basis for trustees to effectively collect claims from debtors and protect them from their insolvencies, i.e. the inability to financially reconcile their obligations, which they have made in a contract at the moment of their maturity. Also, by means of a pawn's right, the stockholder can come up with cheaper financial resources, primarily cash compared to expensive bank loans on the market right now. It is of particular importance for the lender that this law prescribes a non-state stock. This means that the subject of the stock of the lender, i.e. the debtor, remains in his possession and is of direct interest to use or to attract. In such a way, it is possible for a debtor to pay off his contractual obligations by exploiting the subject matter, renting it, and even earning a profit. However, the good intentions of this law in the security of the claim must not lead to negative phenomena and consequences, which they have for the re-enhancing of the debt lobby. We've already discussed this at the Finance Committee's session about some dilemmas. I think that's a question that's been potent too. This is also indicated by a mildly defined provision of Article 52, which regulates the question of the collapse of the stock, where it says: "The right of the hostage ceases and is deleted from the register of stocks when the subject of the law is destroyed. "The law does not contain a provision on compulsory insurance, the destruction by force majeure, due to unprofessional and unintended use, or the obligation to purchase a new or compulsory insurance of the items of supply. This also confirms the position of the 2nd member of the same Member that the right to establish the right to the amount of insurance compensation, if the case has only been secured. This goes in favour of the debt lobby and therefore needs to establish the obligation of insurance. What if the goods disappear from the store, the city and the storm destroy the car, which are the object of the stock or any other means of transport, which is not in regular insurance against the consequences of the natural disasters. Also, if a natural person pawned a truck carrying out public transport, business activity, a pawn trustee cannot get that asset in the state, even if he does not meet his commitment to maturity. This is Article 28. Is that what opens the front of getting funds on someone else's back, provided that the hostage trustee legally came to the money? A natural person has stronger protection as a debtor than an economic operator (Article 27).). This is confirmed by Article 46(2) that the stockholder may access the out-of-court public sale only if he has agreed with the stockholder at the time of the trustee’s request. The issue remains an open question of how certain this law will regulate debt-confidential relations in the environment currently in Serbia. What law will establish the register of supplies? The law on public registers is missing, and you, Minister, have promised that by the end of the year we must pass this law, or which authority will run this register? Why does the application for registration in the register not contain an explicit statement of consent from the applicant when the applicant is prescribed in Article 65(3) for refusal to sign in, when the applicant is required by the notifier? What does an explicit statement mean, is it certified in court, by the authority of the administration, or is it just a written act of the debtor given to the trustee? Is the registration officer bringing in an act of refusal, and within what time is he obliged to do so? The answer to these questions is not given in the provisions of the law, but by accepting some amendments to the SPS parliamentary group, the answers have been defined. One such law is needed, and in the other part of the statement on this law, I will briefly comment on its negative effects, which can also lead to this side, means issues that will endanger debtors by creditors.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-27-0.u29957	Are any of the representatives or presidents of the parliamentary groups answering for a word? He has the word Gordana Pop-Lazic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-27-0.u29958	The honourable MPs, in addition to the pledge agreement under the SRJ laws in moving matters, which we also call a manual pledge, and are prescribed and interpreted by the Law on Liabilities and the Law on Executive Procedure, now we have a new stock which is called an accident as the law reads - the law on the law of law on movemental matters entered in the register. It's my first remark, since the stock can only be on movable things and on some other rights, because if the stock is immobility, it's a mortgage. I don't think the law should have been called that. Therefore, the pledge agreement under the Bond Law obliges a debtor or a third party, a confidant to the trustee, whom we call a confiscator, to give him a moving thing on which there is property rights. Here in this law, we do not have the obligation to have property rights so that, before the other creditors, they may be charged out of its value if his claim is not paid for his maturity, and the trustee commits himself to keeping the received thing even upon the end of his claim to return to the unscathed publisher. What are the basic elements of this contract? It's a contractual party, it's the subject of a contract or a moving matter, and it's the handover of the items of stock in the state. The trustee acquires a plea law, according to the Law on Liabilities, by handing over items of stock in the state. By this law, it is right to register it, although the law does not tell us who runs the register, and it is a second remark. I don't think it's a good idea for us to pass a special law on the register, and it's obviously necessary, so in 15 days we'll have another debate on that register, so we'll talk about this right again and we'll just waste time instead of one provision, we said in one article what the government thinks we should or should accept some of the amendments -- the stock register will lead to an economic court, the municipal court, I think it's municipally leading to mortgages, or the National Bank of Serbia, or I don't know which one, but it was meant to be resolved by this law, given that the law takes effect within eight days of publication and that it has been applied since 1 July 2003. So we have to solve this within a month. That remark is to be effective, and I don't think the government should have allowed it. The right to exercise, therefore, is obtained by enrolment in the register, and Article 5 introduces confusion in such a way, in my opinion, a very confusing legislative proposal; Article 5, point 2 - if the entry requires a trustee, it is necessary that the depositor agree to enroll the trustee in the Register of Stocks. What if he doesn't? Is there a contract or not? Is that then a pledge provided for by the Law on Bond Relations or by this new stock provided for by this law, where there is no surrender of matters in the state? In Article 6, we have a legal norm, and above all I think of attitude 2, which affects legal certainty, because if a third party is safe and has obtained the object of the stock in a safe way, he cannot suffer because of it. You'll probably say -- there's a registry, the register has a property of public documents, anyone can make an insight into the Register, but all of this will make it very complicated for these mutual relations between economic operators. Whatever you're buying, you need to go to the Registry to see that it's not under pressure. That's what I'm afraid of, maybe I'm wrong, and you're going to answer that. You keep saying, justifying the need to pass this law, including that Financial Lissing Act, that they aim to start a small economy. We get the impression from the bill, we see from the spirit of the whole law, that they are tailored to those who already have stable and large production, which will be able to pawn the whole or part of their production to get the loan. But those who have no means of production have only an idea, knowledge, good will, who are forced to think day and night about what to do, what to do later, what to invest to start something, because they are on the street, because they have no work, to survive, and when they come up with that idea after day and night thinking, to get to some capital, they will have to pawn or the property they have, or that they inherited, so, that's the goods they've acquired, or the moving things, in any order -- first of all, and second of all, they know what of these moving things go into play; those who already have started the production process, that's equipment, that's the stuff they have on stock, and those who have only the idea that they need capital, these are valuables, artistic objects, the relics, the relics -- I guess I didn't really hurt anyone right now -- the cars, tractors, the connected machines, and that's that's it. Looking at the whole spirit of the law, there's a feeling that you're going to get them to a mortgage first, then a deposit, or vice versa, and people are going to have nothing to do with it. I'm warning you about this because it's already happened. Look what happened in Russia. With mahogany people had to sell apartments to meet the basics of the state, the tax to pay, and we see that our bill has one provision, too, we'll get to it. Minister Djelic has already designed this, in order to pay taxes and what we owe the state, the state will establish us a right to stock on some of our moving things, and perhaps on fixed things. It'll come to the regrouping of wealth, anything worth it. So everything that's worth something on the market will come into the hands of a small number of people who have money, and whoever has money -- that's a special question. That may be a crucial question - who in this country has the money and who in this way will be able to give money by establishing the right to pledge? Only they, as you call them now -- controversial businessmen like them: plagues, cane and I don't know what nicknames they have. I'm not saying that all businessmen in this country can bring that epithet-- controversial; I didn't insult anyone, I guess. You will now, like in any liberal capitalism -- the original accumulation and we don't ask where the money came from. It's gotta spin. Finally, that would be smart. Come on, let's stop already, let's not ask where, what, just let him have the money and let the economy go. But this is the best way to wash the money, and you're not talking about it, you're talking about something else. You're not going to call it a real name, so you're going to say, we want to wash the dirty money, make them finally legal. We can agree here or disagree, but that's something that the economic history has already shown us as justifiable. All of this, therefore, mortgages, stockpiles and licking will, in my opinion, I've been seriously thinking about this, the negative consequences of many social phenomena, above all family. You'll see how much family will break because people in need will have to pawn everything they have, first under mortgage, and then what they have left of valuables and moving things, in order for the family to survive materially. You can also produce a spaceship today without having someone to sell it to, because you don't have such an air conditioning to start doing something, where you can plan and expect profit, because in no time to change the conditions of harming, laws are passed - today such, tomorrow such as this - there's no economic, legal certainty, there's going to be, first of all, divorces, children on the street, no one to feed them, no one to educate them, then what are we going to do?
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-27-0.u29959	Do you use the next 10 minutes?
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-27-0.u29960	Of course. I think that the fact that this institute has positive sides, which have shown itself in some European countries, cannot be a rule for our own conditions. We can't seem to see our conditions of self-inflictedness, to call ourselves to our senses, to see how hungry people are here, how unemployed. Well, a million people are out of work. One-third of the population is somehow surviving, and what about those two-thirds? Believe me, I've come into a situation where I send my children when they ask me for money to get out, because it only comforts 3,000, 8,000,18,000 dinars. Hard to live in Serbia today. I don't know how you don't feel it. I brought it, but I didn't want to read it now, and it doesn't concern you very much, but ministers seem to have forgotten, well, before they became ministers, and maybe they did, I don't say all of them, but a lot of them, they were getting some money, and now I see how much they get on some boards of directors, 50,000, 100,000, 100,000, you don't know what that money is. They can't feel that climate, and I'm telling you, people are gonna run into these stocks, these mortgages. They're already thinking -- how do I get to this, how do I get to that, I've been at the tech fair, I could make this machine, I could make this, I could sell it, I could turn it around. You'll see what it's going to be like, so we'll remember what anybody's been saying and what it's led us to. I'm not saying that your intentions are bad, probably not, but when you propose laws, you must first of all consider the current economic but political opportunities in the country. Today, a man lives from today to tomorrow. She can't plan to go on vacation, even though here's the May moon or even if she can go on vacation. We already know who can and who can't. So, we are extremely concerned about taking this kind of economic policy and we will not advise anyone to pawn things. Wherever we have the opportunity to say something, we can't say it on television, and what we're saying in the Assembly stays here between us, here's half the MPs talking, half the story, I see you're listening, but you certainly won't pass it anywhere, what the opposition said about this law, but where we go on the ground and talk to people, and if someone asks us for advice, I'm going to tell everyone -- don't by any chance, what a mortgage, what a pledge. You rub your legs with thick geese, they're all greeners, they'll take away a little of what you've got, and you've got nothing of it. That will be what we shall say to the people. Whether we're wrong or not, that's what the people will judge themselves. Here is the basic question: where are the money from the foreign reserve and why someone doesn't start it, why Dinkic keeps it in the straw. As far as I know, and I don't know much, believe me, as far as these economies and banking are concerned, and what little I've been asking myself is the impression that this money is abroad, that it's a guarantee for some of our debts. I don't think I'm too wrong. It was just a logical thought, because if they were here I believe that this state would realize that it was necessary to give some credits that were favourable to start some investment in the economy. You realize for yourself that our economy has gone completely, agriculture and industry, not to zero, but to a minus. You can't stay in power with a situation like this in the economy, and you'd probably do something with that money. That Dinkic isn't crazy enough, either, that money is here. So someone owes us an answer, where the money comes from. In addition to these fundamental issues that concern, above all, the reasons for the law's passing, I must tell you that multiple times through the law repeats the exact same provisions. Here, the pledge contract is concluded by enrolling in the register, you have it in Articles 1, 2, 4, 10 and 15. In Article 12, you are talking about the fact that co-ownerships and ideal parts of property rights can be pawned, and you are not asking for the need for consent of ideal owners or co-owners. You have to secure them that way. That's what we'll talk about when we talk about the amendment that we submitted to Article 12, and you will, of course, answer, so that we can see whether there is legal certainty or not. In Article 14 and the title above Article 14. - the application of other regulations. In the first position, you say that the provisions of this area are not applied to the stock of ships and aircraft for which registers are established according to special regulations. It's true, there are ship and aircraft registers, but we don't know if this provision of yours can establish a stake on ships and aircraft. This is not seen in the provision, although I suppose that, although both ships and aircraft can have the property of moving things, to which all the provisions of the laws that treat immobility can actually have a specific status. In the second point, you say that these provisions are not applied to the stock of securities of value, and in the third and second, I remind you that the superscription - the application of other regulations, and you say in the third position - is applied to the provisions of this law to the reserve of intellectual property rights, and the pledge on these rights is entered in the register of the Institute of Intellectual Property, etc. So by not responding to the title, the vague provision of the first position, and in the third position, you have one affirmative provision, and you have no negation, as it should stand. In the chapter - Legal fact of the contract, we see that this stock is in the sole interest of the trustee. Well, that is a means of security of trustees and that he can limit the right to dispose of items of supply. So, whether it's going to be leased, whether it's going to be sold, whether it's going to be repossessed, limit the use. So it can be limited and used, and then it's like it has a state-owned effect. There's just no cost of keeping things, because a lot of things ask for maintenance costs, some losses and values if they're not used, and then the question here is what we've come up with, have we come up with one stock that isn't actually in the state, but it limits the right to use, and besides, you don't have any expenses. That seems rather vague to me, given the previous provisions in the law. You can see from article 34 that Minister Djelic - what I mentioned, but I have to go a little wider, I have another minute and a half to ask for taxes and other taxes, and I particularly draw attention to this article 34. - already knows now that we won't be able to pay a lot of taxes very quickly, let's say for property. Then they'll establish a hostage right, and that's what worries us the most. Article 34 for the application of taxes and other taxes, the order of the championship shall be determined according to the time of their entry in the register of stocks. Who's the one asking for taxes and other taxes? It's a state and beautiful in the title above the 34th stand-lawful law of the state. You can go over this article lightly, but by reading these laws, even if you pay a little more attention to the draft amendments and additions of the Rules of Procedure, which these committees provide, you will understand what economic policy is going on and what is waiting for us at the most recent time.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-27-0.u29961	Do any of the other representatives or presidents want a word? The word is from MP Miodrag Stamenkovic, authorised representative of the New Serbia parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-27-0.u29962	Dear Presidents, Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the New Serbia parliamentary group will support the law on the supply of mobile things, as has been supported by the Financial Lising Act, as well as all other laws that fix the conditions for investing in the economy. What is the basic pain of our economy? We are already in the third year of transition, when we should already feel the relief and growth of production. Let me remind you of just a few data, that in the first quarter of this year we have a drop in production by 6.4% compared to the same period last year. This is, in addition to the second fact that in the last two years, we have achieved an external trade deficit of about four billion dollars, defeating the data, because it tells us about the fact that we have not been able to transform social enterprises at all, that the newly created small and medium-sized enterprises and the private sector have failed to accept the decline in the production of irrational social enterprises. They didn't do it for all the real reasons. For what? We in this Parliament, unfortunately, have not yet adopted one designed strategy for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises and have not taken a more serious transformation of all financial and non-financial institutions that should provide logistics for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. Someone said that in transition it doesn't matter what or how much you produce, but how much of it you can take out. What we can export will be only products from new businesses, mostly small businesses and agriculture, for one single reason, that our capacities in the social economy are completely out of date, which they are unable to give the quality necessary for export, and that very healthy part we have not developed, I say, among other things, because this Parliament has not provided conditions for that. There's another problem coming up, there's an increase in debts, the minister knows very well. With a $20 billion projection of a gross social product, it would take us three million dollars of annual investment to achieve a growth in production that could cover and service loans that come very quickly to us. What's the situation? About half a billion is expected this year, so six times less than necessary. We have about $900 million on our citizens' savings. The total does not account for half of the necessary annual investment funds. What it means is that we're going to have big problems with budget service, pensions, salaries, population standards. Therefore, social problems will arise. In short, I didn't come out to moan, I'm just pointing out some problems, that we should be creating more economic miles for the development of this new economy that needs to accept the fall created by a completely irrational and decomposed social economy. As far as the law itself is concerned, it is not disputed that it is adapted to the model of the European Development Bank. However, I am afraid that some new problems do not arise in the application of this law. I'm not afraid of the debt lobby, as my colleague Mucic, I'm afraid of the green lobby. That's the opposite. For what? Production growth and the development of small and medium-sized enterprises did not occur precisely because of lack of credit lines and capital. Now that in such a capital market that has an unsustainable hunger for capital we come out with one such possibility, then one of these, in my opinion, is a very liberal law that does not engage too much in regulation, or in the content of a contract between trustees and stockholders -- and so it should be, it should be their risk, because every participation in business is a risk -- in such a hungry capital market right now, the stockholders will be in a situation not to ask for conditions, to sign any kind of contracts, and then we have a typical green society. As we have now, unfortunately, because whoever tries to get to the credit line, I say responsibly, is facing the financial mafia. It's our banking system. Try to get a loan, try to get a guarantee, you'll see how it goes. Therefore, this law is, in my opinion, very good, the only problem of society in which it will apply. These are these abnormal conditions, because we are not a normal European country. Regardless of this fear, however, in the market economy, risk is a neutral thing and anyone signing a contract, including a stock deal on moving things, will have to open four eyes to what they sign and not only to be borne by the current need for capital, but also to understand the responsibility it takes for its assets. I'm still saying that we from New Serbia will support this law. We don't think there's even any technical problems, but we're going to warn all the users on the ground that they're very careful about what kind of contracts they're closing.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-27-0.u29963	Do any of the other presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? No, I don't. ) We are moving on to a debate in order of the MPs, and according to the application for a word in the general search on the draft law on movement rights entered in the register. The first to be declared is MP of the people, Djordje Mamula, and after that, MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-27-0.u29964	The bill was handed over by the government to the Assembly on 18 October 2002, so it was against the Rules of Procedure that it came to the agenda. The bill contains already known solutions in the world. I agree with one part of the argument that this law will allow for legal certainty. The law has 68 members, it stands on 22 pages, and the explanation has two sides. Thus, an explanation is given in one sentence for Articles 1 to 8, from 9 to 14, from 15 to 17, from 18 to 26, from 51 to 60. Whatever the government thinks about this assembly, I think this assembly deserves a much better and more serious explanation, regardless of what I think the text of the proposed law is far better than an explanation. In addition, in an explanation, it says, among other things, that when the law is adopted, "it will contribute to establishing favourable conditions for investing in Serbia's economy". I simply cannot believe that the proposal for a law on a manual bet, which will be so regulated that there is a register, can open more doors to foreign investors than it has ever been, because it would be pretentious, Mr. Minister, to believe that, when it comes to foreign investment, the lack of such a law is a major obstacle, it creates an impression that investors are at the borders and are just waiting to rush, waiting for us to pass one of these laws. However, it is most interesting for me that you, in the light of this law, say that it will contribute to some foreign investment, give no explanation. What is the causal link between this foreign investment law and the extent to which this law will open the door for foreign investment? As you know, industrial production has fallen from month to month, the external trade deficit is very high, and the economic stagnation has been in place for a year and a half. The delay in investment is the cause of a decline in economic dynamics. I think that interest rate policy affects the basic economic environment and that the best law on manual stock with such interest rates cannot contribute to greater investment, above all, by domestic economic actors. What's going on in the banks? Since the beginning of the year, banks have been seen to be liquid. However, when you have such a situation that banks are not in the mood to invest, except at high interest rates to lend loans, but to transfer foreign exchange funds from central banks to commercial banks, then the situation is very clear, above all, because the central bank is already starting to react, so it increases the percentage of mandatory reserves to reduce the outflow of funds from the central bank. Both domestic businessmen and foreigners know it, and in such a situation with such signals, even the best law on manual stocking can't help. In addition, in your statement today, you said that one of the reasons for this law to be proposed is that there will be more investment in Serbia's economy. Your government colleague, Mr. Vlahovic, said the day before yesterday that because of our relationship with the government, we cannot expect more investment, i.e. there is a risk of investment. So, two ministers, who according to their views and contributions so far are compatible with the work, make two completely contradictory statements. That's why I think the problem here is the economic environment, the conditions of submission, not the lack of this law. However, in principle, I believe that this law should be supported, regardless of which we have not yet received a report from the Government on our amendments, and as far as I am aware, the Government has given consent only to four of our amendments. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-27-0.u29965	The word has been given by MP Zoran Krasic, followed by MP Petar Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-27-0.u29966	Unlike my predecessors and government representatives, I don't have as many merciful words as I could give this bill, because I think it's wrong and unnecessary. All of this already exists in our legal bond relations, the law that is good and which, for God's sake, and the famous legal names and great experts should not dare to change, and especially not to disfigure it by some other special laws, so there is an obvious discrepancies in the provisions of the proposed law with the Law on Liaison, and that is bad. As it is bad to say here that in our existing legal system and in the existing Law on Liaison, we do not have a provision on the so-called non-state pledge. It is simply not true, something like that already exists in the provisions of Article 966 and beyond, which treats the pledge agreement, and that the promoters, again probably because of some bad translation, did not have in mind what a manual pledge is, confirms the motion itself in the bill. So the objective of the law, it's something that can't exist as a title over a member, because, if I don't open that topic, there's no such thing as nowhere, that you said the subject of the law, the matter that is regulated, but the purpose of the law, it doesn't exist. In Article 2, you said - a pledge agreement and you gave the definition in the opposite way of Article 966. The bond law. That means you're contrary to the basics of law. I simply do not believe that this definition of a pledge contract exists in any European country. Furthermore, under the provisions on content and form of the contract, you have made a catastrophic mistake. You've confused the subject of the contract and the object of the supply. That's two completely different concepts, and that's what any judicial intern would tell you if they were two different things. One is the subject of the contract, and the other is the subject of the stock. The object of the stock may be a claim, and you've mistaken the matter and the claim. It's just amazing that it can go through. Then, in our Law on Bond Relations, there is a norm that says that the stock moves on to the hostage trustee and at the moment surrenders the stuff that is the subject of the pledge contract. You have turned that norm, that rule in the Law on Bond Relations, so there is no court that will interpret the provisions of your bill. Then, in article 7, you leave the rule of monetary nominalism. It must not be done by the state, it must not, it must protect its means of payment and its currency, it must, because the claim can be made by foreign means of payment, it is always expressed in domestic currency. In article 12, enter something a freshman in college would actually have to warn you about. You say this -- co-owner's share of moving things or from collecting moving things. Well, there's no such thing as right, a set of moving things. Each thing has an individual right of property, or co-ownership or common property, and it does not exist in a collection, but in each individual of what you consider a collection. Then, the right to the subject of a hostage right, in Article 22 where you speak of a lease, no court will interpret that in the way you stated it, no court, remember. If you look at all these provisions, I'd draw your attention to what you're potential for as the greatest advantage of the bill, which is a guarantee of legal certainty. I must tell you that such a guarantee does not exist in this bill. And why is that? In addition to the provisions on the registration of a pledge contract, all other provisions of this Act are not necessary. None of them are necessary, and you're even leaving the principle that you had at the Financial Lising Act, which is better for you than this one here with regard to the acquisition of state by the borrower, if it's in a hostage position. If you had applied that analogy, you would have been much better off with these provisions. This is how you've made a mistake, and this won't be the case for the court to apply. That's all from Articles 41 to 49. Those are completely unnecessary provisions. Next, you're talking about a non-state pledge, as something new, it exists in our bond law. But as the hostage trustee comes into state-run movable matters that are the subject of a pledge contract unless he has received it from the lender, he can, through the court, request that the contractual obligation be fulfilled from the pledge agreement be fulfilled. You've inserted some contradictory provisions here, so you've even listed something that can't stand, you've got a copy of the stock register executive, so it can't, it can only be evidence of some fact. You can't be the paper that proves that you represent the executive correctness. You can't. There's a way to get it done. I'm telling you again, in the financial lease agreement, you had a better and better solution. And if I didn't sort out all the gaps that are cardinal and can't get through, the biggest plagiarist in law school would warn you about this. This goes to the bottom of the bond. Don't make a clear distinction between the so-called. very familiar terms. There's a personal debtor and a real debtor in a bet deal and don't make that difference. You don't point out that a pledge contract is made by consensus, and the right stock is like a real deal by handing things over. I don't want to argue any further, I'd just like to point out a few other things. An admission officer in Article 65 does not exist in our country's legal system. What does an admission officer mean to you, is this going to be an enrolment? Then in the transitional and final provisions, Article 67, you stated what anyone must do and within what time. Where's your sanctions? If you're prescribing an imperative standard of what someone needs to do, then you have to have some kind of sanctions. It's not like you're just prescribing an obligation without sanctions. If you've done so, then you don't need this law at all, leave everything to the Liaison Act, if you wanted some things to be explained, you could have completed with two members the Law on Liabilities, Articles 968 and 968b and done this job. And no, big story, big expectations, these courts won't apply, remember, only registration provisions will apply. This second is contrary to the fundamentals of bond relations in this country. As such, he's inapplicable.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-27-0.u29967	The People's MP Petar Cvetkovic has the word, followed by MP Radojko Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-27-0.u29968	Ladies and gentlemen, today, we have before us a draft law on the law of pawnage on movable matters entered in the register. We heard Mr. Secretary's explanation. What I noticed in the beginning that Mr Pitic claimed that this law is, about, in a package of economic laws that are necessary in order to revive economic flows. I would agree with Mr. Minister that there are elements of the economy in this law, or finance, because, essentially, the world is finance and economics. However, the law covers a greater part of the ministry's competence with foreign economic ties. Perhaps much more includes the responsibilities of the Ministry of Economy and Privatisation, and certainly the highest jurisdiction of the Ministry of Justice, because you will allow, you yourself have explained, this law gives some institutes, i.e. it introduces contracts which are the essence of bond law and contract. This contract is only a work-up, as we have heard, i.e. an attempt to prescribe a special law of a new pledge contract. I'll talk about it later. However, it should be pointed out that the preparation of this law had to be, I would say, the result of interministar co-operation and that in order and by which matter was regulated by the basic interpretor of this law should have just been the Ministry of Justice. There is no interference that the law on pawn law also explains the foreign affairs minister. What I would say, no offense, is not my intention in any way to point out to Mr. Secretary, because I also noticed that there are two kinds of supplies in our right, and that these are the introductions of a third kind of stock, i.e. hostage rights. This is partly true, however, because if we only talk about contractual publishing law, it is true that, under the current legal system and law, there are two types of contractual publishing rights, and that is the right to move matters, which are regulated by the Law on Liabilities and the right to immovable property, which is regulated by the Law on Fundamental Property and Legal Relations and which is otherwise referred to as a mortgage, i.e. a mortgage contract. In the order of contractual publishing rights, in our right and not only in ours, there is also a judicial law in all modern rights. The procedure and this publishing right has been regulated by the Implementing Procedure Act. Also, there is the next kind of publishing law, which is a legal law, which is regulated by various laws, and even by certain provisions of the Law on Liaison. In this law, the intensities are quite clear, that the applicable law prescribed by the Law on Bond Relations is changed so much as the informal contract as a real contract - informal because it does not require a form for completion, real because it is created by handing over things - is replaced by a new type of pledge agreement on movable things, where a formal contract is provided to be concluded at the time of enrolment in the register of busy movable things. This, as Mr Mamula said, is fully in line with the modern principles of law and is fully in line with the principles, provisions and institutes of the Law on Liaison. I would even say that the Bond Relations Act, if not the best, is one of the most modern and best laws that function in this legal system. It would therefore be far more legally correct and more successful if the provisions of the Bond Relations Act relating to the stock had been changed and this could have been achieved in a framework of 10-20 provisions, perhaps not so much. This would make the whole of all the provisions of contractual, i.e. bonds law in one bonding law, which is undeniably good, modern and as such could not suffer any major changes. When I'm saying this, I'm talking about the whole bond law. As regards the stock that would be based on this proposal for this law, the trustee did not take matters into the state, but that the stockholder would continue to hold the matter, and that the register of the things at stake was introduced, such an initiative existed when it was being prepared, that is, when the draft was being drawn up for the adoption of the Law on Bond Relations. It is, I remind, a sketch by Professor Konstantinovic for the draft law on bond relations. There was a provision, where it was possible and the right to establish it in this way, without being given in the state matter of supply, or the thing given in stock. In the case of the adoption of the Law on Liabilities, this provision has been rejected. I think it was most correct for the Government or the Ministry of Justice to change that provision, that is, to put in that provision. However, this is not legally illegal, it is not legally impossible for a special law to introduce a completely different type of pledge contract in relation to the pledge contract set out in the Bonds Act. Maybe this is for some reasons and good, because the new law provides for a new contract, possibly to create confusion in practice, because it bears the same name as that contract under the Bond Relations Act. But maybe it's also useful, because it gives this government the opportunity to process or amend the Bond Relations Act, I'm afraid it would turn out all sorts of things. This kind of failures that we have seen and which will likely occur before and after the application of the law can be corrected by amendments and additions only to this special law in relation to the Law on Liabilities, and that we at least are not trying to amend it at this point, because, as I said, the result could be much worse than what is expected. I welcome the intensities of the legislator and this is in the legal theory and in particular the economy undisputed to provide such security as is proposed to provide great security to the trustee, in any case stronger than the one provided by the guarantee or any other form of personal security. In this country, in the legal system, given the inability of the mortgage and its limitations because we do not have the regulated issue of the property catastra, for all these reasons it is necessary to provide for a supply in this way and to pass such a law. This is what is indisputable, although I do not expect it to significantly accelerate economic development or attract foreign capital, given that the Ministry of Economic Relations has been given here. There's a basic problem with what moving things are. In this law, the government, or so far, has deviated from one of its customs to mark at the beginning of the law what is the predominant subject matter of the law, as it applies. There's no sign here of what a moving thing is in the sense of this law. And that's good, because then we're obliged to apply the Law on Bond Relations, which is very clear about what a moving thing is and when it can be considered a moving thing. However, the legislators, we pointed out to the amendments, used some terms or institutions, and tried to propose some solutions that are contrary to the legal system and the legal practice of our country. We'll discuss this in more detail when we get to those amendments, and unfortunately, I hear only four amendments have been adopted. Article 3(2) indicates that the pledge contract is concluded in writing, which also indicates that there is an illiterate form. In the spirit of Serbian language and Serbian laws, especially those pre-war, royal laws, stands - in writing, because it is a Serbian language and it corresponds to the legal tradition, the legal system, regulations and legal habits in this country and the citizens of this country, which are in this legal system. There's a lot of cases like that. Some of the ones we spotted tried to fix with the amendments. We don't think we're powerful enough to make an ideal law, that's not possible, but we don't think we're that smart that we can fix all the failures. However, we believe that it will be significantly improved by the adoption of these amendments that we have made. There is also one fundamental observation that this law does not provide for who to run the register of hostage moving things. This is Article 57: The stock register is run by a competent organisation designated in accordance with the law. Furthermore, there is no indication of any developments in the bill, nor in an explanation that is an exceptional hoot, nor has the minister given us any indication in his exposé that this organisation will be responsible for keeping the register. Then I wonder what bush the rabbit is in. Why don't we mark all the intentions in this law, see who runs the register of things? In this regard, at the DSS Parliament Club, we have considered possible amendments and agreed that it should be proposed that municipal courts do so in municipalities, and given that, according to the introductory Article 2 or 3, it is intended to be conducted electronically at the level of the state, that then at the level of the Republic, the register of the things in question is also kept. We believe that we have said a matter that is very important and which should be in the law, and that should have been said by the ministry, because otherwise we will come to the need to pass a new law, which would only deal with which organisation will be competent and how the register of busy moving things will be conducted. And it was feasible and technically possible, and economically, politically and legally justified to regulate it by this law, when it had already entered into the fact that the manual stock or stock on moving things was regulated by a special law. I would ask another question, because I came to the realization that the Serbian Judges' Society in co-operation with Serbia's Supreme Court organised a meeting on 26 and 27 February 2002 on the subject of "Requirement Security". Participants were different together, and on behalf of this ministry was Mr. Ilija Drazic, a lawyer and special adviser at the Ministry of Economic Affairs with abroad. Yesterday we heard on the Legislative Committee that the legislator is essentially Professor Miodrag Orlic. I ask this question because the conclusions of this consultation, where a special adviser to the Department of Special Affairs with the abroad participated, are not respected in full respect. I think the conclusions are correct and point out that they are too much to regulate non-state stockpiles through the amendment of the Bond Relations Act. However, it is not a fundamental problem. The problem is that these conclusions are only partially entered into in the bill. They are not fully accepted and therefore will create additional problems. In addition, the law will create a confusion, possibly that it will not create a confusion only with those who deal only with the collection of the executive route, they will be able to understand it, but will create a confusion because it prescribes a special method of payment in relation to the payment prescribed by the existing Implementing Procedure Act. It is undeniable that the Implementing Procedure Act should undergo changes in terms of better and more efficient conduct of the procedure, but copying parallel procedures creates confusion in practice and will create confusion in practice. It will take a lot of counseling and a lot of explaining that citizens, since the Institute of Stocks is being introduced without handing over the stuff, explains how they will be able to do it and how they will exercise their rights. On the other hand, my assessment is that there are not many moving things in this Serbia, which could have a more significant impact on foreign capital entry and on the acceleration of economic production -- is thought to be through credit, because there are not so many valuable mobile things that could guarantee more tangible amounts of credit. I'll remind you that those things, which the economy, for example, has, are available -- a moving thing is a facility, that both these things are technological and economic and cost-effective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-27-0.u29969	The People's MP Radojko Petrovic has the word, followed by MP Srdjan Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-27-0.u29970	Dear Presidency, honourable MPs, Mr Minister, we have a whole new law on the agenda whose adoption of security ensures greater security in the execution of debt-confidential relations. In fact, the application of this law provides for greater confidence for creditors to collect their claims from debtors. The paper looks at the fact that the law regulates to provide the trustee with their claims effectively through pledges on mobile matters. So far, there's only been the possibility of advocating non-movable things. It's so-called. It's a mortgage. The mortgage, as a pawn's right to real estate, mainly referred to the provision of long-term loans, means long-term claims. In order to run economic flows, it is good that this law is passed, and that is its essence, which we Socialists welcome. Given the extremely poor state of the economy in Serbia, the government should be much more energetic in looking for ways, ways and forms to launch economic development. This law on pawn law on moving things is one segment that can contribute to the acceleration of economic flows. When the front is in mind, then it really surprises the delay in the process of passing this law. As we know, the bill came to us in mid-October of last year, and here, only after the full seven months to adopt it. Meanwhile, more laws have been passed under an emergency procedure that is far more insignificant to the country than this law at all. The law could have been brought in regular proceedings last November, and the good part could have started to apply since the beginning of this year -- meaning, as early as January 1st. With this long-term delay, it's just hard to draw conclusions, what does the government want -- does it want to pass a law that can have a positive impact on economic flows or does it not want to pass this law? The front dilemma is being contributed by amendments to the ruling majority of DOS, which we received a few days ago, as it proposes that the start of application of this law should come from January 1st of the following year. Since this law will have a great deal of application in small and medium-sized enterprises and entrepreneurs, everything should have been done to make it far more affirmative and to introduce its purpose and content to businessmen, entrepreneurs and as many citizens as possible. This educational, educational approach was best served by direct television transmissions of this session. I say this especially because in the course of the debate, both in principle and in particular, there are wider elaborates and professional explanations of what is adopted in individual parameters. Unfortunately, by the will of the assembly majority, your fellow MPs from DOS, there is no television transmission. Do you think in large numbers the economic representatives, especially entrepreneurs and potential entrepreneurs, read the official messenger, where this law will be published? Do you think looking for and reading the official messenger is the best way to be familiar with this law? This law cannot challenge the fundamental purpose of moving forward in the regulation of debt-trust relations. In fact, it is a law that should, compared to long-standing practice so far, more to protect the trustee; more or less, the laws so far are primarily protected by the debtor. In the market economy, the reverse approach is, and it's a good thing we're following that flow now. The very fact that the trustee is better protected to collect his claim, more readily and more quickly, will enter into business relations with the debtor, as he remains less at risk. For a lifesaver, stocking does not pose any concern, for he is sure that the long-term will be able to settle. Normally, if there are unforeseen circumstances and if the debtor is unconscious, the risk should be borne by him, not by the trustee. This law allows the stockholder to obtain funds, equipment, loans far faster. For the debtor, it is particularly important that he retains the hostage, uses it, generates income with it and, in the end, can continue to enter in such a way as to obtain funds, and the asset remains in its state. There are a lot of provisions in the bill itself that need to be regulated in a better way. In this respect, appropriate modifications and additions should be made. I'm going to point out only a few provisions that I think need to undergo certain changes and additions. For the purposes of this case, I quote: in Article 4(2), it is unconditional to prescribe that it does not produce a legal fact enrolment in the Registrar if the procurator has pawned a foreign matter. Well, it's only in itself understood that you should just pawn your own thing. What it means is to pawn someone else's business and now we're prescribing some of the measures that it's immaterial. I guess that's pretty clear, in principle. In Article 5, an amendment should be made to the entry of the right to be entered only at the request of the trustee, normally with the applicant’s statement of consent. Otherwise, if we can allow the depositor to register, we'll slow down the procedure, because the trustee will always check, so they'll ask to go together where the register is being registered, so if he's brought in some document - he'll go check it out, and it's all complicated stuff, it's really unnecessary, so that it needs to be amended to prescribe that the entry into the register is done by the trustee, with the consent of, with that paper in written form, obtained consent from the depositor. Article 19 should provide that the contractual obligation is to ensure that the subject-matter of the law must be secured by the insurance organisation, in which they are agreed. So the trustee will protect himself far more, gain more trust. Why are we afraid we're gonna make some expense to the lender? A conscientious businessman, a good host always provides his things - both mobile and immobilized. In the world, you can see how much one country is and how much standard is ever developed, how much insurance is developed, and not speaking in a commercial sense, I'm even talking about personal property in the household and everything else. Furthermore, as regards Article 35, in order to create as much security and correctness as possible in debt-trust relations, to protect the same trustee and the beneficiary, in the event that the payment of deposits and sales is realised, if the excess money is achieved above the contractual obligation, that money must be paid within eight days. If no payment is made within eight days, interest shall be paid, in that case the depositor shall guarantee the trustee's business relationship. I think the fellow MPs who discussed this gap before me, which is not regulated who will run the stock register. Indeed, it was necessary to predict in this law. It was good, I think colleagues from the DSS have submitted such an amendment to be led to the municipal court; and the mortgage is being led there, and security is at the court when stocking is being held, and for trust and payment. As far as information is concerned, the courts are equipped or able to be equipped electronically, so that there can always be a database, to see what stock is placed on. I'm still not counting. I remind you that the SPS MPs have submitted 19 amendments to this bill. I hope that the government will accept more of our amendments, meaning that a significant number of amendments from other parliamentary groups, which have also submitted amendments to this law, will be accepted. By accepting the amendment, we will get better and more content law. As far as the SPS MPs are concerned, it will affect their determination and support this law in principle and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-27-0.u29971	The People's Messenger Srdjan Petrovic has the word, and after him is the Messenger of the People.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-27-0.u29972	The President-in-Office, honourable MPs, practically completes one of the topics that we had started at the last meeting with the Financial Lising Act and the Legal Guarantee Fund, so that with the already existing law that regulates the mortgage issue, we come to almost all the instruments needed to speed up transport on the financial market. The fact is that after the application of this law began, and now we have heard that this application will start from 1 January 2004, we will have a circled mile for possibility, theoretical possibility of fast investment. Our economic environment is certainly not such that these laws can bring some major shift, or we do not have some great opportunity to be optimistic. These laws, which are of a technical nature, will certainly bring about certain shifts, and above all, what is most important, need to start to apply, means that these institutions live, that the agency, which we had, and the courts and all others who were in a situation to apply the sheep, are doing so, so how many results are in practice, and will certainly not be in a near future. This law is specific, given that the stock is an old category that exists in an informal form, certainly since the beginning of the economic development of civilization and has had a social element. Perhaps it is also good that in this situation, when the country is in recession, this law comes in application, for one perhaps psychological reason, which is certainly not such a situation that citizens, small entrepreneurs and even businessmen will run and chase, reach out for loans through the provision of their mobile property, because they do not have good expectations. Again I say that the law should be applied, the authority in the state needs to apply the law, gain some experience during the time, which I hope will come, when this law will have a purpose. So far, in practice, some forms of supply have been applied. Some certain banks that lend small businesses did so in a detour and applied, so ads appeared in the newspaper when the assets of entrepreneurs who could not repay the loans were sold. There have been these cases and certain foreign banks have done so, but surely it wasn't all by law and it's good to have that area regulated. What we have now legal practice and my colleague Cvetkovic was already talking about, so we have a bonding relationship law that regulates something, where the state is on the things given in stock, and it's not said in that bonding law, but it's a ban on social property. So social resources can't be put into stock, which I think is good, and that old law will also apply to this topic in this law. Normally, it's clear why it's good, because at the time of privatisation, it's certainly not possible to perform a process of alienating social property. We would practically have a special kind of privatisation through the use of this law, hypothetically. This law is good because it's liberal. So, a lot is foreseen and there are no restrictions on items that can be put into stock. On the other hand, because of things that aren't good, a special contract is applied and they rule out, which I also think is a good thing. As far as the issue of hostage law is concerned, other than the movable things that have already been said, the new and interesting thing is that rights of claim can be given in stock, meaning the debts the depositor requests from his debtor, he can also place in stock and that's one new category. I think it'll have its own application in practice. Also, the co-owner's part is an object that can be placed in stock. What's controversial, and it's a parliamentary group of DSS and amended, the right to pledge future things and rights, which is a little undefined category, and we think it's too early to start living through this law. It is important that this law enters our economic practice in terms of the mentality and business culture of our businessmen. It is certain that our business culture is not at this moment at an envious level. Clearly, she didn't even get a chance to develop. First, we had a non-market economy, and later on for a time general lawlessness, so it is important that the obligations of the stockholders be rightly followed, that in this story, these contractual obligations are entered, as someone said, and as the law says, really responsible businessmen and good hosts, as it stands here. Mandatory insurance is given over things put into stock, although it is not always possible to apply. In Article 23, this is a member who speaks of the right to alienate the subject of a hostage right, it seems to me that there are some inconsistencies and questions about how it will be applied in practice, and especially this attitude that says that the stockholder and the new owner of the hostage right are in full compliance with the hostage trustee for the damages that can arise as a result of their failure to enroll in the register the claimant's right to the burden of the new owner. What might be interesting to the general public, which unfortunately cannot follow this session because of the absence of television transmission, is the special status of natural persons to which the law also applies. I was just saying that we have unconscious businessmen, that our economic mentality and economic culture are not yet at some envious level. On the other hand, we have poor citizens, who certainly have an even greater need for resources, realistically, and perhaps psychologically there are dangers, some colleagues have talked about it, and therefore it is good that there is this special status of natural persons at stake as an old category and it is certain that it has a social dimension in conditions of poverty, so the state has to be careful what application will be. We're not saying that our citizens are irresponsible. It's been two years since they started to expand, to share loans, and to see that citizens are used to taking credit lightly, so maybe that's a good thing again. They feel the country is in recession and they know what their standard is. Maybe that's why this law needs to go now. I don't think there's going to be any big running for citizens to use the provisions of this law, means to pledge their mobile property. The most important part of the law is certainly the one relating to the settlement and the way the stocks are settled. There are fairly well-protected trustees' rights, so I think it's a good thing that will certainly encourage those who have excess capital, banks and others to start applying, or to use the provisions of this law. I think that part's well done. What is also important is the institution's stock register. It's a dispute who's going to apply it. It is important to be unique, to be well-informed, that there is this unique classification in order for it to be what we now say popularly - transparent, so that interested parties can easily gain insight into the register of stocks, as through many provisions of the law it is seen that there will be a great need for insight into the register. Practically, any purchase will have to precede the register, so that the functioning of that register can slow down, hopefully and speed up the traffic of mobile property itself. That's why it's important that this register is well organized. The practice of the mortgage is, as Mr Cvetkovic said, that it registers, registers at the municipal court. Such a solution exists. There is no solution here that is an institution that will run and apply the register. I'm sure we need to know that. This law shows, in some ways, that we will have a special law that will regulate this issue. I don't see why we couldn't do it with this law, but I'm sure the minister will know how to answer this question. This law, as well as the previous two, on the Guarantee Fund and the Financial Lising, is good laws, but unfortunately in our situation they have little importance. Surely the changes they can potentially bring to the economic environment are great, but only potentially. In this situation, unfortunately, the good effects of this law will not be seen soon. (Natasa Jovanovic, from the post: I have a proposal for the Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-27-0.u29973	He can't. (Natasa Jovanovic, from the post: How can Sinisa propose in the presence of the head of the parliamentary group? ) Please, no matter how much we share the will to tolerate, not to be thrown out of the O.R., and given the lack of information, let me inform you that the proposals under the Rules of Procedure and infringements of the Rules of Procedure are made by the President and the Vice President of the Parliamentary Group. National MP Sinisa Mitrovic is the deputy president of the DOS parliamentary group - Serbia's Reform. (Natasa Jovanovic, from the post: No, it could only be suggested in the absence of the president. )
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-27-0.u29976	The programming definition of the SRS is the codification of the law. I think it would be normal for every government that strives towards the rule of law to also seek the codification of the law. Since this DOS government at least declares itself to be a legal state, I am very surprised that every week we receive one bill representing a classic bond agreement. Instead of, eventually, if you have, making a suggestion that the Bond Relations Act is complemented or changed somewhere, you're pulling out one classic contract each time and you're proposing it to us here as a law. All we have to do is expect to get the deal bill. The issue of hostage law is regulated in the Law of Liaison, I think, in 43 members, just as much as you would have had if you hadn't added some extra members to which you didn't belong here. As far as the bill is concerned, I must tell you, you all know that this law is a declaration of poverty in the country. You know as well as I do that moving things in no household are given in stock without great trouble, which our people would say, only for God's sake. The aim of this law is to regulate in Article 1, and I would say that the aim of this law is to reveal all the valuables that someone is likely to have knowledge of, as Dinkic has, in his time, drawn all the foreign exchanges from citizens who had been in straws somewhere. Now they need to get out of households and all the valuables that possibly exist. We have given a lot of amendments to this law, but I will still comment on some of the most characteristic members. In Article 5, you said that "the admission of a right to the register can be sought by a trustee or a stockholder". It can't stand "can," it must say, if we want some kind of legal certainty. Which means "I can", which is behind it, what will happen to that pledge agreement that will not be entered, who will be led astray in this way, etc., that is a lot of questions the government has not explained, and the minister is obviously not interested in listening to the MPs. What is regulated by Article 11 is fully regulated by Article 989. The bond law, so it's unnecessary. What's regulated by article 16. It's an exorcism. As far as I know, pushing a debt is a felony, and you've legalized it here through Article 16. A bill of this law. Article 20 says, "If there is no obligation on maturity to the hostage trustee, the stockholder loses his right to the state." It's unclear who's making it right. That should also be regulated. In the last position of Article 23, you're legalizing a crime scene again, and that's a fraud. Read this article, and you'll see that I'm right. Unfortunately, I don't have time to explain more widely, but I'm going to run short. Article 31 has already been regulated by Article 30 and is completely unnecessary. That's what I said at first -- to make the law look serious to you, you added members to which there is no place in this law at all. First of all, it refers to the part that regulates the jurisdiction of the courts. You're prescribing something, if it's not specified otherwise. It is known how courts work, how the Implementing Procedure Act is applied, and this law cannot regulate anything beyond that law. In article 32, you say that "the trustee is obliged to prove that there was a surrender to the state before the registration of the register". To whom he should prove it, in front of whom, it is also not clear to anyone alive. Article 41 is what I said, total interference in the jurisdiction of the courts and absolutely excess in this bill. Article 43 is also too high. You simply went on that this law has more members. In Article 45, you say, "After the delivery of a notice to the applicant about the initiation of the settlement procedure, the trustee and the depositor may agree to reduce the time limit of 30 days." You should have said, once again to 30, until one of them died and then there's nothing from the contract. Unfortunately, I don't have any more time, except to tell you that the application of the law that you predicted from 1 July 2003, or 1 January 2005, was still sufficient for you to have been able to make a valid law by then, so when you adopt something that at least looks like the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-27-0.u29977	The word has the People's MP Dragisa Djokovic, and after him... National MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group, injured the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-27-0.u29978	Dear colleagues, I would like to warn the Madam Chairman of Rule 28, which prescribes the authority of the President of the National Assembly, and among other things, requires the President to take care of the application of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, and in relation to Rule 117 of this Rules of Procedure, which I shall quote: "The MPs are obliged to carry the identification cards with them when leaving the National Assembly Hall. If the MP leaves the National Assembly Hall and leaves it in the MP’s unit, that is, his identification card, the National Assembly Service will immediately deliver that card to the National Assembly secretary. The card will be returned to the People's MP upon entering the O.R. "We have never experienced such a situation once before, and since it is extremely hypocritical that today we had a proposal to work up to 20.00 hours by the parliamentary majority, which is now no longer around 30 in the hall, and it is obvious that we have no quorum, which is why the president of the National Assembly does not care, and when the MP of one opposition political party asks to go out for a pay phone and to refer the proposal to the National Assembly, the chairman says he has no right to do so, and in the afternoon part of the session, we had the situation that the head of the DOS Parliament club, Mr Pajtic was present, and Mr Mitrovic received his word and came out with a proposal to work until 20.00 hours. I ask you to have the same arches for all MPs' groups, just ask that you respect article 28 and take care of the order in the O.R. and treat all MPs equally. So, the unauthorized person this morning has submitted a proposal to work up to 20.00 hours, and now apparently there are enough cards here to determine the quorum, regardless of how much I am looking for, however many SRS MPs are here, they will insert their cards to determine the quorum, but I ask you to plead on this breach of the Rules of Procedure and to first get all these cards into the hands of the secretary of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-27-0.u29979	Application of Rules of Procedure, Article 117(2). I ask the National Assembly to pick up the cards that are on the bench or next to the electronic identification system and ask the MPs to determine the quorum by Article 82. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-27-0.u29980	I figure we have a quorum (18.25 hours) and we can keep working. The word comes from MP Dragisa Djokovic, the DSS parliamentary group, and the next reported for the word is MP Rajko Baralic, the SPS parliamentary group. National MP Dragisa Djokovic is not present. The word has been made by MP Rajko Baralic, and the following is MP Tomislav Kitanovic, the DSS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-27-0.u29981	Shall we do some work? Okay. Let's go. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the MPs are colleagues (the MP is silent at the pay phone and waiting for the MPs to die).
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-27-0.u29982	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-27-0.u29983	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam President, Mr. Minister, our colleagues have said a few things about the law on the agenda. I said my position about it yesterday on the Finance Committee and on behalf of the other colleagues. Don't mind if I repeat all that. I thought it was normal for us to have a law like this in our hands and allow for a number of people who are engaged in agricultural production, who have farms that have individual throats, so it could be the object of supply. I believe the largest number of you thinks that's necessary. That's why I've submitted a few amendments, along with my colleagues on the subject. Yesterday I got an explanation, that we wrote that it was meant and that it would obviously be possible to make it happen when the law was passed. We'll take care of it precisely, because there are some people who are... There are no elemental conditions to be done. No parliament in the world should look like this. There should be no such atmosphere in any parliament in the world. It doesn't take any MP in the world to behave the way 50 people behave here tonight...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-27-0.u29984	Please return to the agenda theme and act in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and with the basis for which you received your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-27-0.u29985	You, Madam President, act in accordance with the powers, ensure the atmosphere that I can normally say what I came here to say. You can't talk here. There's no argument here. It's impossible to say what I came here to say. That's the point. It's not about whether or not I'm breaking the Rules of Procedure, it's about the fact that you can't say anything that's why people sent you here. That's the point. You are unable to ensure that the MP speaks of the things he is in charge of. That's the point.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-27-0.u29986	I warn you twice to stick to the agenda theme.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-27-0.u29987	Madam President, I cannot continue to work in this atmosphere. That's the point. You're in no condition to provide that. Is it abnormal for someone to talk while ten people laugh? That's not normal.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-27-0.u29988	That depends a little on the MPs. I ask you not to throw away and honor the Rules of Procedure, both the speaker and the other messengers sitting in the hall. Please don't throw away. You can't even throw a speaker away. (The People's Messenger is silent about the pay phone and waiting for the MPs to die. )
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-27-0.u29989	Thank you for listening to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-27-0.u29990	The word has been made by MP Tomislav Kitanovic, the DSS parliamentary group. The next to be reported is MP Lazar Marjanski.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-27-0.u29991	I'd start with that dilemma that was being put here, that this matter should have been regulated by the Law of Liaison. According to that story that was on the boards, as I recall, this matter was regulated by the law on bonding relations in both the Anglo-Saxon system and the continental law system. However, it has been said and we have talked about that in transition countries this matter is regulated by special laws. So, the laws of this guy, the special law he was dealing with. It is probably so, in my opinion, because of the financial indiscipline that ruled in these countries as regards this type of relationship. Probably because of the lack of this economic basis for resolving things in another way and it has been said that in transition countries this law has produced certain results. I don't see any reason why this guy's law wouldn't give us results, which I think is the most important thing in all of this. I think this law will pass, it's well done. There will be some results in the financial area. I think they're going to supplement that set of laws -- licking, possibly mortgage, and some other things that should be dealt with in this area. There's a need to pass one of these laws. The real need in practice may have existed earlier, in that period of decomposition in our society, where the need for this kind of relationship has already emerged and where this kind of relationship has been realized, but in some gray zone, somewhere outside the legal framework. So that worked, but it wasn't precise by law. I think it would have been much better if it had been regulated by law back then. But then we had a rather difficult situation, which burdened these relations, which was financial indiscipline, which prompted not only individuals, natural and legal persons, but was in some way encouraged by the state itself. The state was behind this financial indiscipline, printing money. So there was no environment and there was no environment for the functioning of such a law. It says here we have a pretty good bonding law, but it seems to me that in practice it does not produce such results as it is said to be good, precisely because of that legacy. There is still some sort of slowness in the application of that law. I think it's a good thing this law on pawnage rights in moving things is out of the bonding law. He has certain positive sides. Although I'm no expert on legal matters, I think it's legally quite accurate. The advantage is that it's wired with certain deadlines. The problem is, if it was settled in the Bonding Relations Act, those deadlines were quite stretching, and then it would come to the question of the very meaning of the stock, of the job, if it extended to a longer period, if those deadlines were broken and the deadline that was specified by this special law was not respected. In addition to that newspaper, instead of enroling in the state, the register is now being registered, which will give efficiency in the application of this law, it is positive that the very thing that the lender gives remains in his possession. So, this use will be possible with these finances, so again, space is being created for some activities and perhaps more small economic activities. In this sense, it is to encourage the development of small and small enterprises. In addition to these good ones, there are some debateable things in this law, my colleagues have already indicated them. It's a misrepresentation of a publishing register, who's going to and how it's going to lead. This is a law that will deal with the relationship of natural persons, legal persons, business is the question of how much in these transactions will be affected by state property.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-27-0.u29992	There's a word from MP Lazar Marjanski.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-27-0.u29993	Mr. Minister, I'm talking to you. You're the only one in this room who listens and no one listens anymore. A law that you suggested probably makes sense in a state that's in order and works. In this country, I think, and I know from practice, it doesn't make any sense. A lot of things haven't been solved. I always ask the question from this pay phone: what about the farmer? If the farmer wants to give the claim, he can use the agricultural machinery, the tractor, the plow, and so on. Our agricultural machines are extremely old. Now we want to develop production, where it's proposed to water the gulf systems, which are very expensive. In order for some of the farmers, young people, to do so, they must mortgage on the ground. Publishing law can't, because all the machines are old. The value of these machines doesn't reach a big number. We also do not have a certain stable price for agricultural products. Look what happened five months ago. MK Komertz imports his corn and lowers the price on our market, on the stock market. After that, it was a price of 4.5 dinars. After that, only his trucks work and export wheat and corn. That's familiar. Secondly, there is a claim to moving parts with us. For example, I worked at a company and we gave a pledge right to a bulldozer, who is 25 years old. He's in good shape, he works, he's a Cutler. We had to get an appraiser to assess that and the Vojvodina Bank asked for 1:3. So this machine's been collected three times, and the interest rate was extremely large. It's not a fear of stock, it's a fear of production, it's a fear of production, it's not. Who's to blame at this point? It is always the state that is successful or unsuccessful, whether it is guilty or not. What's it got to do? I think we need to separate politics from the economy. Politics gets a lot mixed up in the economy. Then, reconstruct the banking system, to reduce the rate. The donations received by banks, such as the Vojvodjanska Banka, received fivem euros from Eksim Banka to place and did not pay that money at all. Those are the facts that stand. Then, much more efficient courts, order trade courts. Faster and fairer transformation, reconstruction of public enterprises, development of small and medium-sized enterprises and incentives in agriculture. We need to create pre-conditions. So, urgently start production, start investment and separate policy from economy. Investments have to start. Now we don't have any investments. Investment holders are public enterprises, such as Naftagas, EPS, NIS and so on. There's no such investment. We've got a little something that's fixed for some repairs and where we get parts of the machine. Compared to last year, 80% of investments were cut. You probably know that well. I'm afraid that through this law, a certain group of people can buy in an easy way. I guess it can happen, I'm not sure about that. So I'm telling you, that's why I said at first -- probably, maybe in England, America, where the systems of all the laws are harmonised, where they have production, then it makes sense. I think it's too early for us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-27-0.u29994	The word has been made by MP Arsen Kurjački, a parliamentary group of the Democratic Party of Serbia. The next to be reported is MP Dragan Todorovic, the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group. The People's Messenger Arsen Kuryački is not present. The word is made by MP Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-27-0.u29995	Ladies and gentlemen, I hope you have enough patience to listen to my statement on the proposed law. If you're impatient, there's always a chance to leave the gym, given that we've made a decision on extended work until 20.00 hours, I think you'll have little patience to respect the decision you've made on your own. At the beginning of my presentation on the draft law on the right to move things entered in the register, I have to say that the first impression that I acquired after reading this law and after a brief reminder of what I was taught in law school, it was not recently, this is not about a law that will primarily have the task of speeding up the development of the economy, nor is it about a law that will succeed in doing so. This is about a completely deplorable goal, which is to protect trustees in the sense that in our country soon some problems will arise about the protection of creditors, given that so far in our legal system we have had overprotective protection of debtors, which, in my humble opinion, is not entirely justified. However, there will be a lot of problems here, especially given that trustees' protection institutes in all forms that apply in the West are quite ruthless. So, if we take into account the current state of economic development, in which our economy and our country are located, indeed this law can be, not in order to develop or speed up this economic situation, but totally the opposite - in order to ensure trustees and take away those moving things that will be put into stock. Because, in the pursuit of those who want to develop a business, to get out of poverty, to improve their socio-economic situation, and their moving things, because there may be no way of saying things because they don't have them, they're going to place or burden themselves with stock. The reminders work, in Roman law, as you know, until the period of the Republic there was a possibility, the trustee could owe the debtor 60 days after the day of reaching the debt to kill or sell into slavery - through the institution manus injection. I hope there won't be a case here, too, that this law on pawn law on moving things listed in the register won't lead to that. Fortunately for the Roman right, during the period of the Republic, it was disabled. As you know, in our right so far, there has been an official division of the kind of things that are burdened with stock or mortgage, therefore, depending on what things are or are being burdened with. It was either a mortgage relating to the pawning of immovable items, with the entry into the land book, or a manual bet, where the basis for the existence of a manual stock, in terms of the trustee's security, was either a direct lecture in the state matter being placed or loaded by hand. The aim of the right of the hostage is, therefore, to ensure that the debtor fulfils his obligations, and the debtor can only fulfil his obligation if he has a national matter, if he can carry out such a thing in a certain way or in a business, if he uses them for work and thus obtains a certain benefit, so that he can fulfil his task - so repay the debt. From that aspect, such an idea can be supported, an idea that puts it into a seal or disproves the existing division in hand supply and a mortgage on the subject of things that are burdened by the stock. So this idea can be supported in principle. However, a prerequisite is therefore necessary for a wealthy society, capable of creating individuals who will not compromise their existence or by hand supply, let alone a mortgage. However, as I have already said, it seems to me that here will be quite the opposite case. It's interesting to look at how the subject of hostage law is regulated; therefore, these can be movable things, rights of claim and other rights, and Article 12 regulates that the object of the supply can also be a co-owner's share. Hypothetically, it will be very interesting to see how the trustee's debt will be paid in practice if the co-owner's share appears as a pawned matter. So, as he will be registered, it will be sold through court. If other co-owners do not wish to participate in such a work, unless they have been consulted on the placing of a handheld stock and the registration and handheld stock in the public register, they will be able to collect such a hand-deposit by a court sale and to provide such a trustee. There are a lot of hypothetical things we can talk about and they prove that, unfortunately, this law is not good enough, and in addition to that, I can also indicate that, indeed, in this text of the law, there can be many dissuasive provisions, many words, such as -- it is necessary, and what if not, a guy -- should do this, it should be done, well, if it's benevolently left to the trustee, the stockholder, or the confiscator, that it works according to his or her own conscience, and it's not a normal punishment, the fundamental essence of the law is lost, and we get provisions similar to international law, where there's no sanctions. So when there's no sanctions, there's no law. Very simply, the court will have trouble working under this law, implementing such provisions. The second question is, since we know that the state so far has been the basis for obtaining a handheld supply, what will be made possible by this law, therefore, that the thing that is placed in stock is left in the sovereign debt. According to the German concept, the right to the state when the stockholder delivers the thing in the stockroom, they both have a state on the staked thing. According to the already mentioned German or modern concept, which has so far been accepted by us, the stockholder has a direct state, because he holds the matter in his hands, and the stockholder has an indirect state. According to the Roman concept, which is also applied in Austrian publishing law, the stockholder has state rights, and the stockholder is now very interesting how the provisions, which are specified and contained in the Law on Liabilities, will be brought into line with a completely different concept, because we will have two conflicting principles that annul the division of the hostage rights according to the type of things on motion and immovable, which are placed in a mortgage or in stock. There are many unresolved and vague issues, and if there is a right to be promoted to one such solution, it may not be too much to think about other institutes that were contained in pre-war publishing law, and I will remind you that some of the institutions that were atypical of immovableity are involved. So, if the basis for the handheld stock so far was considered to be the transfer of the state reserve, can we consider the possibility that immovableities can also be entered not only in land books, but that state immovableities can cross over to the retainer rather than remain with the debtors. We need to see how the situation goes on, but since I've already entered deep into the eleventh minute, and I don't have time to say everything I've prepared, you'll be denied some solutions, and I think those solutions will be contained in the amendments of the Socialist Party of Serbia, and there's no transmission anyway, and I doubt you'll have any understanding of what I've been saying so far.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-27-0.u29996	The People's Messenger Dusan Ilic has the word. He's not there. The word is given by the People's Messenger Zlatan Jovanovic, and the following is the People's MP Golub Rajic, declared for the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-27-0.u29997	Ladies and gentlemen, when a man reads this law, he can't help but remember Dostoyevsky and other classics of Russian literature, which in their share described the situation in Russian society in the JVIII and JIDg century. It seems to me that this law will also bring Serbian society into a similar position, that it will speed up the decomposition in Serbian society, that very soon a small number of rich people will be singled out, a greener who will have capital to give as creditors, and that on the other hand we will have a large number of poor women who will have to be in charge of the naked existence and use the provisions of this law. This law puts a lot of interference in the legal system, especially in bond relations, because it overlaps in many of its parts with the Law on Liabilities and with the Law on Executive Procedure, so that in practice there will be very often cases and occurrences that courts will have to react, or judges will get much more work than they would otherwise have if this law did not pass in this assembly. In short, let me refer to a few provisions of this law, which, in my opinion, are not correct. In the first part, it is not precisely defined that the things they advocate must have proof of property. It was therefore necessary to specify that, as an element of the pledge agreement, proof of the property right over the object to be held. In Article 18 of this Act, more declaratively, and sounds like a recommendation, it states that the stockholder is obliged to maintain the subject of a hostage right, with the attention of a good host, or a good businessman, in order to maintain it in the right state, after the completion of the pledge contract. This sounds declarative, because there's no sanction if he doesn't act that way. Who's going to check if he's been acting domestically and who's going to sanction his potential non-domestic behavior? This member is related to article 52, where he stands subtitled "Failure of Things." In the first position, it is said that the right to terminates and is deleted from the register of stocks when the subject-matter of the law fails. These two members, I think, leave me with certain possibilities for various manipulations in practice and I think that, given that there is no defined obligation to ensure the things that are being advocated, it should be more precisely defined and, in some ways, avoid some later problems of practice. Also, Article 28 discusses individuals who are in a situation to be stockholders. Here are the first and fourth positions in the collapsing, because in the first place it says that if a natural person concludes as a stockholder the contract cannot be foreseen by that contract that the subject of a hostage right will be transferred to the property of the hostage trustee unless his claim is settled. This is the first position, and the fourth point states that at the time of the arrival of the claim, the publisher and the pledger can agree that the subject matter of the right will be transferred to the trustee's property. The first point excludes the possibility of defining this by means of a contract precisely if the depositor fails to fulfil his obligation to move the matter, which he has pawned, into the property of the trustee and leaves the possibility that the trustee and the depositor may negotiate and negotiate, make some new contracts and arrangements to move the pawned matter into possession. Finally, the stock register was not precisely defined, i.e. this law did not prescribe a method or method, a procedure which would determine which organisations were responsible for the management of that register. The law mentions the register, defines the type of registration, but does not say anywhere who will be the organisation responsible for keeping the register, whether it is the National Bank of Serbia, whether it is another organisation and who will determine that competent organisation.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-27-0.u29998	The word has the People's MP Golub Rajic, and the next declared word is the MP Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-27-0.u29999	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Minister, on the agenda of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, is the draft law on the right to move matters entered in the register, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, with a view to ensuring a high level of legal certainty in debt-confidential relations and establishing favourable conditions for investing in the economy of the Republic of Serbia. The fact is that such a law, of course, is amended, is necessary and will create a certain climate for investment of funds and development of the economy, and will also create conditions for creditors to effectively collect claims from debtors, their insolvency, the reduction of credit costs and the reduction of interest, but because it is only today on the Parliament's agenda, and it was delivered to us on 17 October 2002, and under Article 68 would apply from 1 July 2003, and Mr Pajtic, by amending its movement until 1 January 2004. What does that mean and does this government think well of its economy and entrepreneurs, as well as of its citizens, or does it give some false hope? For businessmen, entrepreneurs and other Serbian citizens, a TV broadcast of this session would mean a lot to them, where they would best know the content of this law, because yet a small number of them come to "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia", but the TV broadcast is unfortunately not available. This democratic government is too high today. The non-state stock, which is the subject of this law, is seen in some significant economic advantages compared to the state's, and the biggest part is that the asset remains owned by the debtor, which means that the debtor can either use it or possibly sell the funds to pay off loans, especially when the items of the stock are goods or equipment as movable things and are used in business transport. Therefore, the pledge agreement would have to contain the name and the name, the name of the firm, the exact residence or residence, or the place of residence of the trustee and the depositor, as well as the debtor, where these are different persons, the subject of a hostage right with the necessary markings and identification, the data on the claim provided by the law in question, as well as the date and place of conclusion. This more precisely and better defines the mandatory content of the pledge contract. Paragraph 1 of Article 4 is identical with Article 15, and if it remains as proposed, then it should be changed in Article 15 or more precisely to define the concept of a trustee, so that the trustee obtains the right to enter the register of stocks, unless otherwise provided by law. It is also excessive in the same Article 4 and needs to be deleted because it is unnecessary to prescribe that it does not produce a legal fact in the register of stocks, if the stockholder has pawned a foreign matter, i.e. an object or asset to which he has no right of ownership or if the stock is not valid for any other reason. It is understood that the subject matter of hostage law can be individually determined by a matter which the stockholder can freely dispose of. The registration of the right to take place on the request of the trustee, with an explicit statement by the depositor, to enroll the trustee in the pledge register, in order to create trust and to introduce more order into the Institute of Publishing Rights in mobile matters. I think it's a good suggestion that the subject of a hostage right can be covered by the throats of cattle, horses and other animals, bees of society, flocks of livestock and fish, because this gives farmers the opportunity to speed up their production by stocking on mobile goods, as well as to provide citizens with cheaper products and better status. A pledge agreement should provide for compulsory insurance, as more security is thus created so that the trustee can collect his claim from the debtor. Article 20 of this Act must specify more precisely the state and the application of the subject-matter of the right, as well as the possibility that a contract may prescribe a state-owned contract, even in the event that the depositor does not fulfil the obligation to the issuer. It should also be anticipated, in order to create greater security in debt-confidential relations, if the issuer does not pay the stockholder the extra price obtained by selling above the claim, that he pays the required tightened interest. In Article 51, paragraph 2 should be deleted, which regulates that the hostage trustee may be reconciled from the value of the property and after the limitation of his claim, because it has nothing to do with the termination of the right of the hostage, i.e. the payment of the debt and the termination of the claim. In accordance with the proposal of the SPS Parliamentary Group to prescribe, in Article 5(2) of the Law, the obligation of the trustee, when requesting registration in the register, to obtain an explicit statement from the debtor of the consent, this document should also be attached when applying for the registration of the right to be entered in accordance with Article 62. It's a bill of law. It is also necessary to provide time for the adoption of an instrument of refusal to enrol in Article 65, and it would be reasonable to request that it be three days from the date of receipt of the application for registration of the right to register, because it is the same time limit as that provided for in Article 41. Finally, in the transitional and final provisions, due to the delay in the adoption of the law in relation to the proposal, the terms for its application should be harmonised and amended as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-27-0.u30000	The word is from MP Veroljub Arsic, the SRS parliamentary group. The next reported was Jovan Todorovic, who gave up, and then MP Zoran R. Angelkovic, a parliamentary group of SPS.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-27-0.u30001	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the SRS believes that this law was not supposed to be in the process at all today, and other than being completely unnecessary and technically unworked. For example, Article 5 provides for the possibility to enrol in the register, but does not have to; in doing so, it is necessary to make a explicit statement by the depositor to accept that it is entered in the register. It's a bit unusual, not to say strange, because the register exists or doesn't exist, is entered or not entered. The acceptance declaration to be entered is excessive because there is a contract, on the basis of the contract, to be entered. There's no dilemma. That's why there's that register. Article 7 is in its position 1 even the opposite of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, as the value of the money given can be expressed in both dinars and foreign exchanges. It only gives an even greater opportunity that although the contract provides for an amount in the currency, the money is paid on the counter, but at that higher selling price, and whoever returns, must not risk buying foreign currency on the street, but pays on the same counter again in dinars, and is now calculated at another lower value. So here's the extras for this law. Article 13 of the stock may include things that the stockholder will obtain in the future. That's what I've heard for the first time in my life, that someone can guarantee something they're about to get. I'm stocking a car that I'm gonna buy in 10 years. What if I don't buy it in 10 years? That's why the stock deal doesn't even apply anymore. Maybe I'll buy it the first day in 10 years. So this is too high. Such laws as if they were written by someone who had nothing to do with this subject at all. Furthermore, the law itself did not predict who could do this job. Can I have the banks? Let's just say that the foreign banks that are here on the market have pushed you to make a law like this to make it easier to collect their claims. But who else can? You now across Serbia in almost every city have two, three or more pawnshops where a job like this is now being done. There's a question of who's funding, who's putting capital into those pawnshops. Private entrepreneurs or businessmen, difficult. First, they have no money; secondly, and if they do, they have learned to work with their capital, to have confidence in themselves and are able to earn money themselves. Who else? Pensioners you gave severances to when you went into retirement; it's hard to do that. It's hard because it's a question of whether he's getting paid contributions when he retires. So, who else is staying? People who have acquired a certain fortune over the past few years... (President: I warn you of overstepping allowed time. I'm finishing... and who have earned their wealth on the edge of the law, not to say on the other side of the law. It seems to me that you're not everyone who's been arrested and still has those close to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-27-0.u30002	The word has been made by MP Zoran R. Angelkovic, the SPS parliamentary group, not present. Since there are no more entries for the word, I ask if they are applying for the word of representatives of the parliamentary groups who have not used this right? Please, MP Bojan Pajtic, president of the DOS-Reform Serbia parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-27-0.u30003	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, here, after the Guarantee Fund Act that we adopted today, we move on to another way to secure a claim that represents a serious incentive for investment in our economy. As a result of the fact that the situation with mortgages and with our land books is not the most famous, therefore, after it has been introduced in those areas where land books are traditionally founded, as well as the administrative procedure in the case of the security of claims, i.e. the entry of the right to immovable property, we have come to the conclusion that there is a need to intervene in this area and we also have announcements from the Government that serious steps will be taken in this area. Why it's important to define a special law in this area, why, despite the objections we've heard, this law is everything, just not unnecessary. It is precisely because of a supply that is not a serious stock today, therefore, where there is no national security, there is no security and where the trustee is not assured that the debtor will fulfil the obligation, because the security means are in the sovereign debt and that it is in need of exactly the means to guarantee it, which enables it to practically and without almost any means of making incomes, which is certainly a significant incentive in the economy, in which there is not much fresh money, to foresee mechanisms based on which the trustee will be secure in its claims. The establishment of a register, which is one of the mechanisms, allows the authority of the state and something different by an enforcement procedure that is defined by this law to ensure that such claims are provided and that the trustee, especially the publisher, is sovereign in the exercise of his rights and has the highest level of settlement. Therefore, the Stock Liabilities Act is defined in a completely different way, and it is necessary for the institutions to have some means in the scope of the executive procedure; the Bond Relations Act is purely material and legal character and has to be done in this way. It was not possible to define, on the basis of the general principle of freedom of contract, that the economy develops through such a means of security of the claim and that investments can be made, as is the case with the fiduciary security of the claim. Because in the case of fiduciary claims, there is the acquisition of property rights with creditors, although there is a very similar institute, the thing lies with the debtor, although the debtor takes advantage of this thing, even though the debtor uses this thing, the trustee has the established right to property on that thing and he can achieve this property by virtue of the Executive Procedure Act and it is not necessarily that such a means of security is foreseen through a special law. The Montenegrin law exists, therefore, several years ago, the Montenegrins passed a special Law on fiduciary security of claims, modern and satisfying in this area, and this means of meeting in court practice and it is not bad to think about such a means of security of claims, for the sake of greater security, greater security of trustees, is predicted in our legislation as well. In any case, this form of non-serious stock is one serious step forward in encouraging what we call a Serbian economy. The effective collection of claims, therefore, is one of the advantages, because our Law on Executive Procedure is very often more in the interest of debtors, protecting debtors than it does in favour of creditors. The protection against the insolvency of debtors does not come down to the current financial, material status of debtors, as the protection is based precisely on the things on which the trustee has the right to stock. The pledge brings incentives to investment and to reduce the cost of lending, to reduce the cost of charging, or to encourage lower interest, because the trustee is far more secure than with some other means and means of lending to the debtor, as well as the priority payment of the hostage trustee, therefore, the right to be charged, precisely by the person who already has a real right to things that are in the sovereign debt. The effective settlement procedure provided for by this law is another incentive, so this law is a major step forward, precisely in the functioning of not only the business system, but also the banking system with us. Economic advantages are inconclusive in relation to the possessive stock, where the matter, which is a means of security, is located in the state's trustee, has virtually no function, because the trustee by law is obliged to take care of the matter, therefore, cannot, unless it is explicitly intended by the contract, or to use it, or to collect the fruits, is obliged to keep the matter with the attention of a good host. So, don't use it in the convulsion, while here's a completely different situation. The debtor has the right to use this thing, which is very often the result of the credit he has received, and it is used precisely to pay off that loan and that is why this asset is extremely significant, because practically, without the investment of financial resources, it acquires the opportunity to pay off those funds and to enter into the economy precisely thanks to these funds. A wide range of resources, not only objects and things, but also the rights that this law provides, therefore, from individual things to aggregates, and even to intellectual property rights, rights to seek co-ownership and ideal parts, guarantee that a wide range of citizens and interested entities, with greater certainty and broad motivation, enter the business or develop their own creation, precisely thanks to such a broad range of opportunities, regardless of what means and rights they have. So there are many opportunities, security is great, the perspective of the Serbian economy is also in this sense the DOS-Reform Serbian Parliament Club will vote in favour of the proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-27-0.u30004	Are any of the other representatives of the parliamentary groups applying for a word? Yeah. ) The word is by MP Ljubomir Mucic, authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-27-0.u30005	Mrs. Micic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, here's as one of the sixty of us as far as I can take advantage of this right and say a few notes and final assessments about everything, about this law we've really been having a lot of discussion about here today, and on the previous day on committees and during the presentation. I think this interest in this law really confirms the fact that we advocate that such a law is necessary in times like this and in this financial market, as well as in the area of debt-trust relations. On the other hand, I have to say that a really big problem and a big thing in all of this is going to be the implementation of this law. That is why I really cannot help but draw attention to the direct television transmission or participation of information means in the transfer of attitudes, ideas and all of those amendments that we mentioned today, and also the idea in the principle debate, which could have contributed to the fact that this law was actually implemented and that it has what is most needed for it at this point. And that is, in times like this, in conditions of mutual risk both by the stockholder and by the hostage trustee, to realize however that the business risk is one of the preconditions or conditions of success in the business and that both participants in the contract must be interested in making that contract, i.e. in creating conditions to encourage economic development. That is why I think that the transfer in the means of informing some of the more bombistic things that have happened here today and not what is brought about in the debate of this law should certainly be corrected in the next period through the broader interpretation of this law, and I hope that this assembly and the competent ministry, in addition to these basic provisions of the law, will be brought into the interpretation of something and the broader requirements that we have made at the committee session yesterday, and also through the amendments that we have submitted to this law. Well, let me say it again. We believe that this law should have been passed before, and I think that extending the deadline for another seven months for its application will somehow contribute to this further debt lobby, as I called it in the previous period or period of greening, will have and will provide negative tentacles for the implementation of this law. Its application will not take effect without the law on registers, so I think and suggest the minister that, since we have passed a law on the financial lease and the introduction into the register, and also by adopting this law, the register must be established. I think we need to hurry immediately to pass a law that will regulate the area of registration in the register. Another suggestion. Do not let Minister Boza Djelic tell us immediately, in accordance with the Budgetary System Act, there is no money for the stock register, employees, although we do not know how many there are, and they are very important and very important, as well as an organisation that will run the stock register. It is therefore necessary in the budget law, i.e. a memorandum on the budgetary system for the coming years, to provide funds for the functioning of this law. By this law, I must say, even the state is not privileged, given Article 34, where tax claims and other taxes are said, the order of the championship is determined according to the time of enrolment. That means that neither God, as a tax authority, the Ministry of Finance, if it's too late to sign up for a hostage right, it doesn't have the right to collect stock before someone who's put a stock on that thing. Also, no sanctions are provided for so-called. Officials of the register, which in this law are a god and a beating to sign up. If a registry officer tells you he can't sign up, you don't have anyone's right to appeal, but in that case you have to anticipate some responsibility for the clerk's register, as well as for me who took off my jacket. In the first part, I said I shouldn't let a local employee be a mother and a stepmom. The debtor always risks, or risks, if there is no law, if it is not entered into the law, in the register of stocks. Does this law regulate, that is, the legalization of vegetables, which are increasingly present in these troubled times? Will the contract legalize the green interest and the default credit phenomenon of the contract? So the contract only expresses value in domestic terms, and you wrote foreign currency as well. I think debt seekers will continue to do their job before the courts and collect their claims under this law of the prescribed court procedure. When the debtor starts defiling through your company, through your house, the family will be ruined. I don't think we should allow this law to hurt our families. For this reason, I think that the obligation to execute and carry out an executive procedure must be a priority, and that is what has happened so far. I don't think by any contract, we'll agree on how many of us we're here, and you and the ministers and everyone, kids aren't the subject of hostage law. If he's not the owner of the debt, most of the time, the item of supply and blackmail is children or families. I think we must explicitly agree that we must not allow one good idea to cause our families to suffer. Whether something that represents a crime and which is strictly sanctioned by criminal law will be tempered by this law. Published law, and it usually comes from a contract, but in itself the contract does not mean that the right is created unless it is entered in the stock register or the matter of the stock goes to the hostage trustee. For this reason, I think it will contribute a lot to the debate in detail on the proposed amendments and finally, our proposal will be to pass a good law that we have been waiting for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-27-0.u30006	Do any of the other presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? No, I don't. ) Does anyone who has not used their right under Article 89 want a word? Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) The word has Minister Goran Pitic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-27-0.u30007	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will concentrate in this part of the commentary on what remains in some way unexplained, because in this communication between Members, there have been answers to each other and some of the questions and comments we have heard. I thank those who helped me to clarify the matter and respond to those comments that some fellow MPs have made and in this way I hope that we have made things clear. However, I must comment on some things that have been said on the subject of enormous fear or fear of family failure. I understand some comments, but I don't understand some of them, because I think they're motivated differently, for example. that there will be a redistribution of wealth, or what it looks like to run a business and worry about how someone will coordinate or enter into a certain risk of their business. Will he who has money today become richer and, as Mrs. Pop-Lazic said, the law is laid down according to the measure of those who have something to bet. So suddenly we are afraid of the greens, and we are afraid of the debtor's lobby, and we are afraid of the trustees, and we are afraid of those who have something to bet. However, somewhere we need to define what the spirit of this law is and do we really understand the risks of it. As for family collapse, I think we've gone a long way towards family collapse lately. As you know, I rarely deal with history that way, and I do what can help strengthen the family. This law accurately introduces a potential risk variant for those who opted to enter that risk. Let's not prevent people who want to get into that risk and make the most of their profits, make a profit by going into certain business risks, let's not make it impossible for them to build their family by making money on what they have to offer as an object of supply. The concern for the family is not only this element that is primarily a business relationship, we are talking about the eternal right and the possibility that the market regulates what needs to happen in the economy if you are willing to risk it. And if you're not willing to risk it, don't go in there and give your stuff up as collateral. If you think you're going to lose what you have as an object of stock and ruin your family, don't go to the trustee and ask for credit. And today you have, said Mrs. Pop-Lazic, I think it's a little conflicting, on the one hand you said you needed to give credit, so there might be an investment. On the other hand, let's deprive this loan element, because this is giving credit through the form of what can be created as a kind of debt-confidential relationship. So this is a potential-relieving function. For those of you who mention different people here, who someone recognizes, someone used a term -- a controversial businessman, anyone who knows business well and who deals with real business, it will also be defined for this kind of variant, in which he loses the best form of liquidity of what he has, and that's cash. If I give my cash and go over it to the credit variant, in order to have the potential to charge over a stock item, it will be done by those who have understanding of business and long-term self-positioning in business relations. Those who eventually got rich in another way in the 1990s, when there was no room for this kind of communication and lawmaking, who are trying to regulate matter in market variants, will not find themselves there. This isn't greening and this isn't giving money, so you give someone 10% a month based on that money. This is a business relationship, for those who have an object to give in stock, want to enter the business risk variant, want to make profits, see themselves in a certain entrepreneurial spirit, and understand that this is how they get into a chance to strengthen their family through the strengthening of this business, and that essentially gives us a new structure. I am aware that this law certainly as no law, separately observed, does not constitute some basis, "capital", in the sense that it will also help to open suddenly I do not know what horizons of Serbia's development and create some business prospects. But each of these laws, which we've talked about in the last few days, is made up by this mosaic of creating a business environment, in which those who, so far have not had a chance to realise their business interests and ideas, are now given a chance to realize them. Whether it's going to be in thousands of business arrangements or it's going to be in tens of thousands, that's exactly the segment of making up that mosaic. I am sure this law will help to identify Serbian citizens in a significant way as those who have the chance. About these risks almost someone commented and is a great argument, look at consumer loans, as the institution has developed since 2000, after they died in the 1990s, except for programmes. So, an open consumer credit institution for everyone, I'm sure you're also a customer of a consumer loan and you're in the category of reads, because in all banks they don't look at political lines, they look at potential credits. I believe you have something to offer in terms of personal bonity. It is a huge percentage of the billability of these loans, which shows whether a Serbian citizen respects the obligation to enter a certain family risk variant. And the family risk is the same as we recognize in this law. As far as farmers are concerned, it was a question and I want for the speaker and for the sake of Mr Rajko Baralić, who I told on the board that a number of elements should be listed in terms of which species from the basic herd for farmers may be the subject of the stock, to say: everything can be the subject of the stock, because it is said - the basic herd and other forms; meaning what the amendment is given is understood under what is given by law. In other words, farmers are given wide space to supply as an object not only persistent tractors and machines, but also what they have in their own backyard. I'm sorry that Mr. Krasic isn't here, but I don't have the habit of plowing with people who aren't there, but I do have a need, and since you're going to tell him, I'm sure you'll understand what I'm about to say. That goes for the next one. I think his objections to the non-compliance of this law with the Bond Relations Act are incorrect. He even listed Article 996. The Law on Liabilities, which is absolutely not incompatible with Articles 2 and 2 of this Act. On the contrary, this Article 966 refers to a state supply, and this law regulates a non-state supply, and I am sure that those who know the Law on Liabilities and how well they know that this law does not regulate a non-state or non-serious stock. That is why it was necessary to regulate it with a new law. Just two more things and a propo. As for his commentary, which, I must admit, was a bit diabolical, and he was referring to what the students of the Faculty of Law should know and that there is no right to a collective thing, and by chance here I have a copy of Professor Orlic's book. It's a book from the second year of law school, where it's defined what the law means. I'm referring him to a second year of Law School, where he can find a way to define the right to the sumption. And the propos of the Law on Liabilities, perhaps for your information, since I haven't had a chance to say it so far, but someone mentioned, one of the authors of this law on pawning the right to movable things is Professor Orlic, and he was one of the authors of the Law on Bond Relations. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-27-0.u30008	There is a word from MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group, right to replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-27-0.u30009	I thank the minister for referring to our discussions, but I would just like to say without controversy that you misread Mr Krasic when he spoke of Article 966. On the occasion of the stock of the Bond Relations Act, he only suggested that it would be sufficient to add, beyond Article 966a and 966b, all the specificities prescribed by this law and thus, without specific law, to the extent that, through amendments to the existing Law on Liabilities, we were able to enable all of us to use these rights of stocks without state, as you intended, or by enrolment in the register of publishing rights. So it was completely misread. In addition, it would be correct, Minister, that's what I expected from you when you talk about controversial businessmen and when you mention some years, you say, for example, from 1990 to today. I don't know when you could cross-section. But there are also those I know of who have become rich, such as Dragan Markovic, who was a sawmill until 1999, so before 2000, he suddenly started to get rich. He's in the Zemun municipality. I know he made eggs and chickens. Now he's suddenly a businessman with so much wealth that we can't imagine how much wealth he is. Then, we know how individuals came to sugarcane, how much money and how much capital and reserves they created, or how much sugar there was on the sugar lager when they bought those sugars for three euros. Let's talk about it, especially in 2000 there were conditions for individual wealth. When we talk about the proposal in particular, then we'll cross legal knowledge, and since we've been listening and learning from Mr. Orlic's books, I think we'll be able to convince you that we understand it very well.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-27-0.u30010	I'm finishing the initial search. According to Article 136, Article 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I call upon a review of the draft law in particular. On top of Articles 1 and 1 of the amendment, MPs Rada Bajic and Bora Stanimirovic together submitted. The Prime Minister and the Finance Committee have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The same article was submitted by MP Milovan Radovanovic. The Government's representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The applicant of the amendment wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-27-0.u30011	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group has tabled an amendment to Article 1. The bill, which stipulates that after the words "movable things" add the words "on which there is a right to property". What's the point here; it's about the aforementioned article 966. The law on bond relations, which, as you say, Mr. Minister, speaks of the object of the stock, where the trustee comes into possession, i.e. in the state items of the stock or movable matter. However, there is an even greater need for the depositor to have the right to property on the moving matter, because this particular item remains in the government lender. So, less is the security of the hostage trustee, because in the case of a possible litigation, and that's what you say in Article 4, if the stockholder has pawned a thing he doesn't have the right to property, or if the stock isn't important for other reasons, the registration in the register of stocks doesn't produce a legal fact. What kind of legal situation arises? There is strong legal uncertainty in this debt-confidential relationship between the stockholder and the hostage trustee. That is why we, in the Serbian Radical Party, have in mind the creation of legal certainty in the legal business in debt confidence relations, which is the subject of this law that you have proposed to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, we are proposing property security. We are in favour of liberalising the relationship through which various businesses are being concluded, with us in the Serbian Radical Party, of course we believe that such jobs will come about where lenders will come into certain business and financial risks, where, of course, there will be a family collapse in that financial sense. That is why I suggest you accept this amendment, given the provision of Article 17, where you say that the stockholder, in the sense of this law, is a debtor in case he is at the same time a debtor, not a third party, who has the right to property on a moving matter in the capacity of a rightholder who can freely dispose. So, on the one hand, you mention the right to property, which should be owned by a lender, and you don't put it into basic provisions as a principle, as a rule, as a principle that will apply in the text of the whole law and that it implies in the conclusion of this business that there is a right of property on the part of the borrower. In addition to Article 17, and there are other members who are contradictory of each other on property rights in the matter of supply, say Article 35: "If the debtor fails to fulfil his obligation of maturity, the defendant is entitled to the state by law". What if there's a third-person claim on the case? There will be a court dispute, where a third party will retain a state, since it has the right to property -- it will not be possible to realise a request from the trustee to the lender.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-27-0.u30012	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want to take a word? The word comes from MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, deputy president, SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-27-0.u30013	Mr. Minister, we, in principle, have also made it problematic that Article 1 does not hold the right to property on things to be put into stock. Whether it's understood or not, we can't see it from the bill. It may be so, even when a third party advocates a moving thing to provide a debt to another person who is practically a stockholder, he must have some right of property. How do you guys get someone who comes up with some stuff, like, I like your watch better, so I say, give it to me for a walk, go and pawn it. Then what happens? I'm speaking a little picturesquely, which is why it needs to exist here that it's a proven property right. You can prove your property right on the equipment you have, on the goods that are on your stock, based on paper, you can intellectual property, you can prove property on your car, you can even prove property for art paintings, you have some certificates, or already as you have obtained them, based on the fact that you paid taxes for something you own, you have inherited certain relics, to which you may have paid taxes, because you are not an heir in the first order, so all this is evidenceable. That is why, in our opinion, not only because it is in the Law on Bond Relations, which treats the manual stock, it was appropriate to find it in this law as well. If you don't think the amendment is in place, you should give us an adequate explanation so we won't possibly be mistaken.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-27-0.u30014	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? If no one wants to, we move on to the next amendment submitted jointly by MPs Nebojsa Jovic and Dragan Jovanovic. The Prime Minister and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. On behalf of the applicant for the amendment, the word has been given by MP Nebojsa Jovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-27-0.u30015	The Honorable Presidency, honourable Members of the People, Mr Minister, as stated in the discussion, and this is also said in the draft law on the rights of movement recorded in the register, the law regulates the stock of movable matters and the rights to ensure the request of the trustee and, in that sense, the pledge agreement obligates the depositor to the trustee to provide him with security for his claim, by enforcing the claimant's right to the things of the depositor in the register. The reserve agreement shall regulate the rights and obligations of the stockholder and the trustee, and the form of the contract shall be governed by Article 3. Proposal for a law establishing the right to move things entered in the register. My colleague Dragan Jovanovic and I, on behalf of the SPS Parliament Club, propose that the position of Article 1 of the 3rd amendment be changed and read as follows: "The pledge agreement contains: name and name, company name, correct residence or residence, or trustee seat, as well as debtors, when these are different persons, subject to the right to the necessary markings and identification, data on the claim, which are provided to publishing rights, as well as the day and place of closure". With this amendment, we wanted to define more precisely the obligation and content of the pledge agreement. In accordance with Article 3(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The bill stands - the names of the last name firm. The amendment is proposed to stand - name and name, company name. We believe that this way is more transparently determined when writing the name and last name, when it is a depositor, trustee or debtor a natural person, and the name of the firm when it is a legal person or entrepreneur. We also suggest that, apart from what the contract says, the word "identification" should be added with the subject of the right to publishing, for reasons of more precise determination of the subject-matter. Let's say, if the item is a stock car, then it has to write a car stamp, engine number, chess number, etc. Finally, other than the date of conclusion of the contract, the day and place of conclusion should stand, for the reason that if a court dispute arises, it shall determine the local jurisdiction of the trade court to resolve the dispute if the depositor voluntarily fulfils his obligation to surrender the case to the hostage trustee.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-27-0.u30016	For today, we end the debate and continue the work tomorrow at 10.00 hours. The word is by MP Ljubomir Mucic, as an authorised representative of the parliamentary group, and in the debate on the amendment to Article 3.
