ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-24-0.u29342	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Sixth Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2003. In order to determine the quorum necessary for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the MPs' units. I find that there is a quorum needed for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the following MPs: Stanko Kovacevic, Branimir Trajkovic, Borisvoje Drakulović, Slobodan Pavlovic, Marko Jakšić, Rajko Baralić, Miomir Tadic, Dragan Jočić and Miroslav Markicevic. We move on to the 2nd item of the agenda: - Proposal for a decision on the election of Members of the Constitutional Commission Does any of the presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups, who did not use this right, want a word? There's no sign-ins. ( ) Since no one is answering for a word, we are going to the list of registered speakers. The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic, and then a National MP, Ljubomir Kragovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-24-0.u29343	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, what happened yesterday by the service in the delivery of a proposal from the Constitutional Commission to the MPs, not only is it a kind of scandal but it is by who knows which time it is repeated in this assembly. Namely, the upper left corner stands the head -- the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly, the DOS parliamentary group -- Serbia's Reform, 23 April 2003. It's yesterday's date. Mr. Bojan Pajtic, MP, president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, says: "On the basis of the article. 131 and 156. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I submit a motion for a decision on the election of members of the Constitutional Commission to take place at the 6th session of the First Regular Session, which was called for on 22 April." Mr. Pitiæ, I guess that should have been the other way around, the 21st time you found out about the session on April 22nd, you wrote this memo, not the 23rd, saying that the session was called and that you were calling for the day before. All right, however, counterpart Gordana Pop-Lazic, deputy president of the parliamentary group, explained to you in detail why the Serbian Radical Party does not want to participate in the work of the Constitutional Commission, and this cannot be the subject of any trade, or that you throw some people into some fictitious place for Serbian radicals, regardless of who they are, from whom they are party and who they represent. On the other hand, this composition of the Constitutional Commission is not at all equivalent to the current political will and strength in this assembly, nor in the electoral body, because in this assembly there are people who are citizens of Serbia, they have citizenship, but they are not MPs, so they can neither be found within the constitutional commission. The key question is why did the head of the DSS parliamentary group, Dejan Mihajlov, become a "wood lawyer" for other opposition political parties yesterday, when he cannot possibly represent the opposition? It can be declared, but only when they leave power in all municipalities and cities in Serbia, where the presidents of the municipality, where the presidents of the executive boards and take seats in various boards of directors, can he say they represent the opposition and, as such, think that the composition of the Commission should be different. Since the DOS came to power, you've given us no argument in favour of your desire that the Constitution should change. We have told you and has repeatedly explained to you in the legal and professorial style of Prof. Vojislav Seselj what the intentions of Serbian radicals are and what we believe should change in the current Constitution. It is to erase the rest of the cardio, the social property, that we are ready to change the coat of arms and anthem of the Republic of Serbia and that the possession of city building land cannot be a monopoly of the state, but should be given the opportunity to be the property of citizens. But we of you except various concepts, one who lobbys the DSS, the other who lobbys Kostunica's wife through the Belgrade Centre for Human Rights and the Third Professor. Paul Nikolic, your monarchist, we have heard nothing else, and now from all of this you will have some fourth concept. The fourth concept will be on someone, as Zorica Radovic would like to say, to the typical border between the federal and regional states. We will not do it for the simple reason that we know that by adopting a new constitution, the concept that you advocate, and that you owe Nenadu Canka, and that you owe other separatists from all over Serbia, we are not bound by it, because we advocate a single Serbian state, that its powers strengthen, and not in such a way that we give opportunity to all those who have been back 12 years, and that is not a conspiracy theory but it is the whole truth, both Kosovo and Metohija, occupation and all the things Americans do there, give us the right to think so, they want to realize, and that is to completely dissipate Serbia. Since I have no more time, because fellow Serbian Radicals will continue to speak in the principle debate on all our grudges, I want to tell you, even though there are no direct television broadcasts today, that we want Serbian citizens to spend Easter holidays in peace, to spend them well with their families, but we Serbian radicals believe that Serbia and the Serbian state will be resurrected only when we drive you out of power.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-24-0.u29344	The word has the People's MP Ljubomir Kragovic, and the next one registered for the word is MP Milorad Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-24-0.u29345	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the motion for a decision to elect members of the Constitutional Commission, which is on the agenda today, has many shortcomings. One of the main shortcomings is that the constitution is adopted in an anti-constitutional manner. However, all these shortcomings have been brought up by my colleagues and I would not like to repeat it, but rather stick to the Kosovo and Metohija problem. In today's paper, if you haven't read it, the government says, "The life of Serbs as in prison." The following text reads: "There is no in Kosovo and the Metohija rule of law. If there were, it would be known what is wrong with the kidnapped and missing Serbs, and not Serbs, like other non-Albanians, would be second-class citizens and no disputes motivated by ethnic hatred would be waged against them in courts. There's no freedom of movement for Serbs. If there were such freedoms, there would be no communication in Kosovo only within ethnic groups and communities. If there were freedom, the Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija would not live in enclaves," another name for the ghetto. The Enclave, gentlemen, is a prison under the clear sky. "Commoned in their small communities, surrounded by the Albanian majority, Serbs in enclaves live in permanent fear and knowledge that each exit from the enclave carries death and risk, while UNMIK recognises only individual rights. Of collective rights, such as some other ethnic communities, on occasions similar to Kosovo, there is no speech. They do not respect Kosovo and Metohija the rights of people to stay in the province or return to it. In four years, only 2% of the exiled and displaced Serbs returned, which means that if they returned at the same pace, it would take more than 100 years. There is no healthy market economy base in Kosovo and Metohija. The mafia also remained the biggest businessman and most powerful investor in the province, and drugs and weapons remain the source of the biggest profits. There is no respect for property rights in Kosovo and Metohija. Serbian assets are given to Albanians in the presence of international actors. The companies in which the Serbian state has invested unauthorizedly for decades have been sold without the pre-established ownership structure." All of this, ladies and gentlemen, is true, all of this is a faithful picture from Kosovo and Metohija. But what is sad is that it took the government of the Republic of Serbia four years to write such a text in the paper. We've pointed at all of this before. Why did you make the Serbs come out here? Probably for donations. Why did you force Serbs to go to the local elections in Kosovo and Metohija? Probably for donations and loans. Why did you force Serbs to go to the province's elections if such conditions prevail in Kosovo and Metohija? It means that you, who are currently in power, have been selling Serbs since you came to power. There's no other word. I'm sorry to have to say this, but it's a fact, a harsh fact, that for a handful of dollars, you forced Serbs to go out for registration, to local and regional elections. Ladies and gentlemen, whatever the SRS does not want to participate in this constitutional commission, as an SRS MP from Kosovo and Metohija, I would like some guidance to give to this commission in the making of this constitution. I would, above all, like the constitution to contain a few sentences, to create conditions for return and to ensure the return of all exiled Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija, not to make decisions as they were in 1945 when it was forbidden for Serbs and Montenegrins to return to Kosovo and Metohija. I want to point out that a partial or totally 109 churches and monasteries in Kosovo and Metohija have been destroyed and that through the constitution it is the duty to rebuild these monasteries, renovate and rebuild in Kosovo and Metohija. I read in the press yesterday that UNESCO wants to rebuild, protect, renovate the monastery of St. Archangel in Prizren, the Decani monastery and the Pećko Patriarchy in the Cave. However, they cannot do their duty, although they have knowingly provided, to execute because it is not safe in Kosovo and Metohija. The fate of 1,300 kidnapped Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija must be resolved through the constitution and more than 1,500 Serbs killed in Kosovo and Metohija must be resolved. The current action by Steiner is to transfer power from UNMIK and KFOR to the Cypriot institutions. The only legal remedy for this is that all Serbs, who participate in political structures thanks to you who have deceived them, are irrevocably resigning on all structures in Kosovo and Metohija's political life. Such a boycott is needed, the strongest boycott against Steiner not to transfer power from UNMIK to the Cypriot institutions. A few days ago, a bridge was mined in the village of Lozište on the way from Mitrovica to Raška. That's when Steiner declared ANU a terrorist organization. The same must be done with the Kosovo Police Service or the KPS and the Kosovo Protection Corps. These are the most basic things concerning Serbs who remain and are determined to live in Kosovo and Metohija. The parliament is obliged to meet the minimum requirements of Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija. What still gives Serbs hope of living in Kosovo and Metohija is the staying of Serbia and Serbian institutions that have to step up in Kosovo and Metohija from day to day, not as they have one by one started to end. Everything I'm saying is bound by the Constitutional Commission and the Resolutions and the Declarations that we unanimously adopted here in May 2001. Thank you, gentlemen.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-24-0.u29346	The People's Messenger Milorad Mircic has the word, and the next one declared for the word is the Messenger Branislav Blazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-24-0.u29347	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS is in any case for changes to the existing Constitution. We are against this way, how the ruling coalition wants to do it. We pointed out when you passed the law and the rules under which the Constitution of the Yugoslav Community was to be adopted, as well as the law on the establishment of a Commission for Change of the Constitution of Serbia. We have made our political position clear that the real relationship between political forces in Serbia has changed. The relationship of power in parliament has changed. You have to take care of it, gentlemen. But it's obvious that you're still doing things the way you're old, doing things by your model, the way you get a warrant, that's what you want to do, not considering whether it's against the constitution, whether it's against the law, whether it's your decision or your wish is contrary to the desire of the citizens. What you're doing now is contrary to the Constitution. This particular issue of determining the composition and personal part of the constitution's commission is being cut off by all the rules, even contrary to the attitude of the forces in parliament. You're telling me gentlemen that there are 11 members of the DOS reform committee. That's not true, gentlemen. Also, three members of the AP Vojvodina Assembly belong to that coalition. That's 14 members. You're talking about equal representation of all political parties. That's not true either. What further causes suspicion and a reserve of Serbian radicals is precisely the composition of this commission. Why do we have any doubts? You won't be able to honor the deadline you've given yourself. You set the deadline at the end of August, or in early August, for the full completion of the work, as you call it about the adoption of the constitution. Look at the composition of this committee you're proposing. Fully, names and last names, the same commission that adopted the Charter. The commission adopted the Charter, could not adopt a menu in two months, not now adopt changes and changes to Serbia's constitution. You gentlemen are losing sight of something, that not so long ago you announced from the speaker's pay phone that one of the members of this committee, who is a professor at law school, is in legal error. This legal delusion continues. You gentlemen are losing sight and the following fact: we Serbian radicals are not perfectly interested in your alternative models, asymmetric or symmetric autonomy, regionalisation of Serbia. It is clear to us, as most Serbian citizens, that this is the beginning of Serbia's collapse. A real question arises for you, gentlemen, who are not aware of the facts and when you bring a constitution like this, in which territory, in which country you will apply that constitution. By the time you bring the constitution, by this constitution, the state will fall apart, you will not have a state. It's best, gentlemen, that you postpone this job. You are certainly bound by the deadline for the adoption of this constitution long ago missed, and that was the end of 2002. We won't lose anything if we wait a few more months, so, in the meantime, make an effort, call the election, as the official said (fau de) has changed the will of the citizens. It would be best to see how it has changed, in whose favour and on the basis of the will of the citizens to bring the constitution, as a reflection of the will and desire of the citizens, and not of one political oligarchy that has already expired in any case.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-24-0.u29348	The word has the People's MP Branislav Blazic, and the next declared word is MP Goran Cvetanovic. It's the last reported word.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-24-0.u29349	Ladies and gentlemen, a French proverb says, the more the change is the same. We had one country with a roof, no foundation, on some six slimy, glass feet. When that roof fell on our heads, those legs split apart in their own direction. There's only one left and continues this story and the politics of further division. It is obvious that through this constitutional committee and this constitution that it will propose these divisions in Serbia continue. But it's your ideology, and you can do something new to bring everything down. I once heard from one man, we'll make even more beautiful and older houses. Neither did he build those older houses, nor will you, based on the destruction of the state, make any new and quality state. Throughout history, however, there has often been something good happening in the ruins, so in the ruins of the Bastille, France's revolution emerged, and from the ashes came Phoenix, and you will probably leave only ashes in this country. What was to be followed in this constitutional commission in the adoption of the constitution is the vote of consensus, a Serbian, or a definition of the minimum of national interest. If that wasn't before as a proposal, then this constitutional commission, which includes unitarians, federalists, separatists, regionalists, has no way of proposing anything quality. She, like that constitutional commission that proposed the Constitutional Charter, will sit there for months, every day we will listen to TV as attitudes approach, as it was a constructive debate, but it will not bring any good, but will come simply to Solana, write down what needs to be, throw you in front of the table and tell you -- gentlemen, that's your proposal for a new constitution. Therefore, this commission is more commercial than could be said to be, because it is not parliamentary and it is certain, it is not expert and it is certain, not even a commission that reflects the political will of this people. This trickery about how many DOS there are representatives here, it's just a story that could be done more correctly, that DOS took and made a proposal for a constitution and ended. So, the story is that he's 12, and he's adding three more from the ranks of the AP Vojvodina, which is a classic concession to Canko and his separatist intentions, and then he adds from the Coalition "Return" one more, and then we have one party that says it's opposition. Yesterday, he was not allowed to say whether he was opposition or ruling, separated and not legitimate, it is Mr. Ivkovic's party. We don't know who's here anymore, plus, who's minus, who's zero, who's the opposition, who's the position, who's nothing, who's nothing, we just heard yesterday again the stories from the SPS that they're going to be constructive, how they're going to be good, smart, obedient, how they're going to contribute to this constitutional proposal. On the other hand, the DSS commented that nothing is right, but they will still vote, probably not know when to vote, so they will not be notified and will not vote for such a constitutional proposal. Therefore, the essence of this whole story is that the division in Serbia continues, that no one reacts to the territorial-ethnic principle in northern Serbia being joined on the pretext that it is in terms of the development of municipalities, in which the Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians is in power. No one is commenting that the Vojvodina Constitution has already been proposed, no one will say whether separatists in this country and those who want to tear this country apart should continue their political struggle and action, especially to be members of such a constitutional commission that should determine the fate of future generations.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-24-0.u29350	The word is by MP Goran Cvetanovic, no longer registered for the word. The remaining time of the SRS is seven minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-24-0.u29351	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, during the state of emergency, a law on the way and procedure of changing the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia was passed, one of the most important laws for a state in the course of emergency. You couldn't have done a simple elemental thing during your state of emergency. In case you were taking care of your house, apartment or basement, you had excess waste material, you wanted to take it to a dump, say, in the vicinity of the city of Belgrade, that means pay for the service, pay for the transport, so you don't just pollute the environment. You know what was going on? You take the truck, you get to the dump, and there they tell you, I'm sorry, after 14 hours, you can't because there are extraordinary measures. So you couldn't even leave a shot at the dump, and the Assembly passed the Law on the way and procedure of changing the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. You yourself assess how adequately and properly the congregation does its job. This raises the question whether Serbia needs a new constitution. If necessary, what are the shortcomings of the current Constitution, because it is certainly important that if you want to change something, there should be a consensus, and for what reason, and if it changes what needs to be changed in the existing constitution. In Vojvodina, it is already working to pass the basic law, in Kosovo and the United Nations Metohija, the constitutional framework was adopted in April 2001. After numerous painful, difficult, long-term negotiations and agreements, Serbia-Montenegro's Constitutional Charter was reached. The DOS is now seeking a new constitution to delay the republican parliamentary elections. Will this constitution represent the expression of the People's Will or the expression of the Democratic Party and its satellites? There will certainly be no constitutional state in this way. DOS wants the government to comply with its needs and wishes. The constitution, as the highest law, requires a special procedure for adoption, but not as sure as the DOS proposes, which is a simple majority in parliament, not a two-thirds majority. Mr. Pajtic, as head of the DOS parliamentary group, says the constitution is rigid. He probably wants to change the constitution in an unconstitutional way, probably make the constitution flexible, because they prefer to be flexible and behave if necessary. What is characteristic of this proposal is the selection of members of the constitutional commission, which is the composition of the commission; therefore, in its explanation it writes - 20 MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia are relatively represented by political parties. You know, at the college that I graduated from, I mean, medically, I went away because I wanted to do some human science, but also because I didn't have an affinity to math. Here, counting, you can conclude that if you have 11 DOS representatives, three DSS representatives, three SPS representatives, one SSJ representative, one National Socialist Group representative, a group that didn't participate at all, I simply don't know on what basis they can participate, you get the data that it's a total of 19 MPs. How, then, it is possible to say that two were intended for the SRS, although we did not ask for anything, nor do we want to participate in all this, if it is 21 people's MP. If we add a National MP from New Serbia, then the figure is much larger and more significant. Apparently, the bill promoter, I don't know who's behind it already, didn't even know the simple math, count to 20, to see what it's like or how it is. It is obvious that if you look at how legitimate the composition is, if you look at Mr Branislav Kovacevic, who received only 257 votes, and you know, he is unable to win even for a councilman in the assembly where he comes from, let alone being a representative to change the constitution. The SRS does not want to give this commission legitimacy, first of all, because there is no political consensus for such a committee. What happened today is that the World Bank gave the Republic of Serbia, or the $80 million budget, and do you know why? Because the Republic of Serbia's budget account is blocked, the state and DOS authorities are not paying, they are not fulfilling their obligations to those institutions to do so and apparently trying to unblock the budget account, and then the credit returns the Serbian Radical Party to power in the first parliamentary elections.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-24-0.u29352	Did the People's MP Bojan Pajtic, a replicator, or as a promoter, come forward? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-24-0.u29353	Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen, just a few words, because it is particularly important for the public to point out that in this motion the decision, therefore, is not the law as we could hear from this pay phone, but the draft decision taken under the law, all the proposals have been made, and they have been tabled by opposition parties. Therefore, in the request that the parties submit their proposals by name and last name to the members of the Constitutional Commission, it was not restricted anywhere - submit a request for one, two or three members of the Constitutional Commission and absolutely every proposal by name and last name from the representatives of the opposition parties shall be incorporated into the Constitutional Commission. I think that this is unusually important to say, that none of the opposition MPs have been left out, none of the proposals of the opposition parties in this proposal for a decision has been left out, nor have we been told to propose one, two or three MPs for this committee. Of course, by the number of MPs, two opposition parliamentary clubs could not bid on the constitutional commission, so National Socialists and New Serbia, because they have five MPs. However, since the Serbian Radical Party did not take part in the work, it pointed out its political position not to participate in the constitution, we found it unusual that the two seats would be filled with MPs from the opposition parties, just to avoid speculation that we would manipulate the number of members of the commission, or that we would like to achieve majorisation based on two empty seats, and in such a way the MPs of the New Serbia and the People's Socialists provided and achieved participation in this commission, although with that number of MPs they could not achieve participation, because the average of 12.5 MPs were to achieve participation in this commission. The democratic character of the decision is primarily reflected in the composition of the commission. The decision allows all parties to take part in the constitutional commission's work, in the constitution's making, to cross arguments with other MPs in the making of the constitution, to try to achieve and to elect those solutions that they have provided for their political programmes and to install them into a new constitution. That is why I call not only on MPs of the DOS-Reform Serbian Parliament Club, but also on all those parliamentary groups whose demands are fully respected, and all requests are fully respected in the proposal for this decision, to support this decision.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-24-0.u29354	National MP Zoran Cirkovic, president of the New Serbia parliamentary group, spoke. Right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-24-0.u29355	I'm going to talk a little bit about this arithmetic 12.5, see how these things are. Applying this arithmetic, 12.5 MPs, which is enough for a parliamentary group to participate in this commission, gives the following results. Given this composition, there would be three DS representatives, three DSS representatives, two SPS representatives, and that would be eight in all. There are 12 unfilled places left. In order to respect this arithmetic 12.5, you should have declared that only eight representatives of this parliament are participating in the commission. The other thing is, I'm really sorry that your prodigal son doesn't learn that arithmetic, and otherwise I'm going to be teaching that extra class and I promise for free. I'm a teacher in education, and I want to teach classes and some people who don't know the Cyrillic letter. So, I'm taking a course for analphabets, and in that matter, they'll be spared all expenses. Once again, there's no such thing as arithmetic. Sir, my dear Patty, the amazing thing is that you're stuck, you've erased me from the list. I saw you wipe me off the computer. We set it up yesterday. I know you'd wipe me out of my life, but I don't agree with that. So, once again, as far as these five MPs of ours are concerned, it's not five of my dear sir, but three of you have taken from us, of course, with their consent. Once again, let's talk about those 12.5; how do you find a representative of a League or a Coalition for the Forest, how many MPs does she have? How do you find a representative of a Sandzak Democratic Party there? As far as I know, there are only two representatives, and one I see more. That martyr of mine from Prepolje couldn't make it to that committee. What are we talking about? If you wanted that arithmetic, you should've cut the bonus. The moment you declared 20, you had to fill us from other MP clubs, and that's the story of 12.5.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-24-0.u29356	This was a replica. He used the right to replication, Mr. Cirkovic. You may as well come forward, you have the right to answer whenever you want. The word has a proposalary representative, MP Bojan Pajtic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-24-0.u29357	Dear Mr. Cirkovic, as a goon, one of the first things I've learned is that there are three kinds of beards. One is the beard of calling, another is the beard of knowledge, and there is a third kind of beard. What is unusually important to emphasize and what we insist on is that MPs' clubs have submitted their proposals. In no way have we restricted these proposals and we have respected absolutely all the proposals of opposition parties. No one told the opposition parties to submit one, two or three proposals. No one has in this way limited the possibility of opposition parties to participate in this committee, and in this sense we have included all these proposals in this decision.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-24-0.u29358	Are any of the other representatives of the parliamentary groups applying for a word? No, I don't. ) I am concluding a single search on the proposal for a decision and we will join the decision-making process at 1200 hours, when we will also declare the law on telecommunications and the proposal for this decision. I'll see you at 12:00. [[After a break.]] Dear People’s MPs, since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the Telecommunications Bill in principle and detail, we move on to a decision. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: – Proposal for a TELECOMMUNICATION LAW (vote) I put to the vote the proposal for a telecommunications law in principle. For 112, v 69, did not vote 10, out of a total of 191 people's MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the Telecommunications Act in principle by majority. Before we move to a decision on amendments, I remind you that MP Branislav Kovacevic, in writing, withdrew the amendments he submitted to the Bill on 18 April of this year and that, at the meeting of the Committee on Transport and Communications, the amendments were withdrawn by MP Velimir Simonovic to Article 5 and the representative of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to Article 114. I remind you that an integral part of the bill's proposal has become amendments submitted jointly by the MPs Gordana Komic and Bojan Kostres to Articles 5, 6, 11, 18, 22 and 114, the amendments submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the People's Parliament of the Republic of Serbia to Articles 6 and the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to Articles 9, 10, 38, to the title above Articles 57, 60, 61, 68, 79, 83 and 84. We're moving on to decision-making in detail. I am putting on the vote for amendments submitted by MP Velimir Simonovic to article 1. For 26, against 105, with seven abstentions, they did not vote 54, out of 192 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I am putting the amendments tabled by MP Veroljub Arsic on Article 1. Against 109, they did not vote 83, out of 192 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I put the amendment to the vote, which was submitted by MPs Velimir Simonovic and Rade Bajic in the same text as Article 2. For 36, against 108, the abstentioned nine, was not voted 37, of 190 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I put the amendments tabled by MP Milovan Radovanovic on Article 3. Against 110, he did not vote 81 out of 191 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I put the amendments tabled by MP Ljubomir Mucic on Article 3. For 32, against 113, 48 of the 193 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I am putting to vote the amendments submitted by MP Bora Stanimirovic to article 5. For 35 against 112, 47 of the 194 MPs did not vote. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting on the vote for the amendments tabled by the Parliament of the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina on Article 5. For 15, against 98, the two abstentions, did not vote 79, out of 194 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I would like to vote on amendments submitted by MP Branislav Vakić to the title of Chapter II, subtitles above Article 7 and to Article 7. Against 111, a abstentioned one, did not vote 81, out of 193 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I am putting on the vote of amendments submitted jointly by MPs Dragan Todorovic and Zarko Obradovic. For 36, against 109 abstention one, the vote was not 47, of 193 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I am putting to vote the amendments tabled by MP Srboljub Zivanovic to Article 8. Against 107, it did not vote 85 out of 192 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I am putting on the vote by the amendments tabled by Natasa Jovanovic on the title above article 9 and on article 9. Against 111, two abstentions, 79, out of 192 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I am putting on the vote for amendments submitted by MP Slobodan Janjic to article 10. Against 109 abstentions, they did not vote 82, out of 191 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I would like to vote on amendments submitted by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic to the title and subtitle above Articles 11 and 11. Against 113, 78 of the 191 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I am putting on the vote of the amendments tabled by the Parliament of the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina on the 11th. For 21, against 95, a abstentioned one, did not vote 74, out of 191 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I would like to vote on the amendments tabled by MP Miroslav Christodulo to article 11. In five, against 102, with three abstentions, it did not vote 80 out of 190 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I am putting the amendments tabled together by MPs Petar Petrovic, Milos Lukic, Adam Urosevic and Milos Todorovic. For 32, against 110, 48 of the 190 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I would like to vote on amendments submitted by MP Zlatan Jovanovic to the title above Articles 12 and 12. For one, against 107, a abstentioned one, did not vote 81, out of 190 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I am putting on the vote for the amendments tabled by the Parliament of the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina on Article 12. For 23, against 94, two abstentions, they did not vote 72, out of 191 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I put the amendments tabled by MP Petar Jojic to the title above Articles 13 and 13 Against 115, it did not vote 78, out of 193 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I would like to put the amendments to the title above article 14 and to Article 14 tabled by MP Stevan Kesejic. Against 114, 80 of the 194 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I am putting on the vote by the amendments submitted to article 15 by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. Against 111, 83 of the 194 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I put to vote the amendments submitted to article 15 by MP Miroslav Christodulo. For eight, against 105, three abstentions, 77 of 193 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I would like to put the amendments to the title above article 16 and to Article 16 tabled by MP Ljubomir Kragovic. 77 of the 193 MPs did not vote against 116. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I would like to put the amendments to the title above article 17 and to Article 17 by MP Dragan Ljubojevic. Against 114, 79 of the 193 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I am putting to vote the amendments submitted by MP Joca Arsic to article 17. For 29, against 113, a abstentioned one, did not vote 50, out of 193 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I put to vote the amendments tabled by MP Miroslav Christodulo to article 17. For 41, against 93, with five abstentions, it did not vote 55 out of 195 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I put the amendments to the title and subtitle above Article 18 and to Article 18 to be submitted by MP Lazar Marjanski. Against 112, two abstentions, no 80 votes, of 194 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I put the amendment tabled by MP Hranislav Peric on Article 18. For 34, against 110, a abstentioned one, did not vote 51, out of 196 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I am putting to vote the amendments tabled by the Assembly of the Autonomous Province of Vojvodina on Article 18. For 22, against 99, a abstentioned one, did not vote 73, out of 195 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I put the amendments to the title above the article 19th and to the article 19th by MP Dragan S. Pavlovic. Against 114, 81 of the 195 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I put the amendments to the title and subtitle above Article 20 and to Article 20, submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. Against 115, it did not vote 80 out of 195 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I put to vote the amendments submitted to article 20 by MP Miroslav Christodulo. For 39, against 92, the abstention of three, was not voted 62, out of 196 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I am putting the amendments tabled by MP Goran Cvetanovic on Article 2. Against 114, 82 of the 196 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I am putting on vote the amendments tabled by the Assembly of the Autonomous Province of Vojvodina on Article 22. For 24, against 91, the two abstentions, did not vote 79, out of 196 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I put the amendments to the title above article 23 and to article 23, submitted by MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic. Against 111, 85 of the 196 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I put the amendments tabled by MP Dragan Colic on Article 24. Against 111, 85 of the 196 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I put the amendment tabled by MP Veroljub Arsic on Article 25. Against 113, 84 of the 197 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I am putting on the vote of amendments submitted together by the MPs Radojko Petrovic and Dragan Jovanovic on 26th. For 35, against 111, 51 of the 197 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I put the amendments tabled by MP Branislav Blazic to article 26. Against 115, it did not vote 80 out of 195 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I am putting on the vote by the amendments tabled by MP Dragan Ljubojevic, on article 27, with a correction. 84, a total of 195 MPs, did not vote against 111. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I am putting on the vote by the amendments tabled by the People's Parliament of the Verica Radet on the title above Articles 28 and 28. Eighty-three, a total of 195 MPs, did not vote against 112. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I am putting on the vote for amendments submitted by MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic to article 31. 84, a total of 197 MPs, did not vote against 113. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I am putting on the vote by the amendment tabled by MP Rajko Baralic on behalf of Chapter 3. For 34, against 110, a abstentioned one, did not vote 52, a total of 197 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I am putting on the vote for amendments submitted by MP Branislav Blazic to article 32. One, against 114, was not voted 84, a total of 199 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I put to vote the amendments submitted to article 33 by MP Miroslav Christodulo. For 22, against 96, the two abstentions, did not vote 79, a total of 199 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I put the amendment tabled by MP Slobodan Tomovic as member of 33rd. For 34, against 111, 54, a total of 199 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I am putting on the vote for amendments submitted by MP Milovanovic to article 33. For one, against 112, a abstentioned one, did not vote 85, a total of 199 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I put the amendment tabled by MP Petar Jojic on Article 36. 84, a total of 196 MPs, did not vote against 112. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting amendments to the 36th joint vote by Members Petar Petrovic, Milos Lukic, Adam Urosevic and Milos Todorovic. For 31, against 107, the vote was not 60, a total of 198 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I put the amendments, which were submitted together by the MPs Nebojsa Jovic and Dragan Jovanovic, on Article 37. For 32, against 106, a abstentioned one, was not voted 59, a total of 198 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I am putting the amendments tabled by MP Goran Cvetanovic to member 40. For four, no 84 voted against 109, a total of 197 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I put to vote the amendments submitted to article 42 by MP Miroslav Christodulo for 44 against 91, with three abstentions, did not vote 59, a total of 197 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I put the amendment tabled by MP Lazar Marjanski on Article 43. For one, against 112, a abstentioned one, did not vote 85, a total of 199 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I am putting to vote the amendments submitted by MP Milos Nesovic to article 49. For 35, against 112, there was no vote of 50, a total of 197 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I am putting on the vote for amendments submitted to article 52 by MP Miroslav Christodulo. For 17, against 93, three abstentions, 84 did not vote, a total of 197 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I am putting on the vote for the amendments tabled by MP Miroslav Christodulo to article 55. For eight, against 95, three abstentions, 93 did not vote, a total of 199 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I am putting on the vote for amendments submitted to article 56 by MP Miroslav Christodulo. For 15, against 92, the abstention of four, was not voted 88, a total of 199 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I would like to vote on the amendments tabled by MP Dragan Colic to the title above Articles 58 and 58. Against 115, it did not vote 83, a total of 198 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I put the amendments tabled by MP Hranislav Peric to article 71. For 34, against 113, 51, a total of 198 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I put the amendments to the vote, which were tabled together by Members of the 77th People's MPs Petar Petrovic and others. For 27, against 108, it did not vote 64, a total of 199. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I am putting on the vote for amendments submitted by Natasa Jovanovic to article 84. Against 111, it wasn't 89, a total of 200. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I am putting on the vote for amendments submitted by MP Ljubomir Kragovic to article 86. Against 107, it didn't vote 93, a total of 200. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I put the amendment tabled by MP Miroslav Christodulo to article 87. For 15, against 100, a abstentioned one, did not vote 84, a total of 200. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I put the amendments to the 92rd vote together by MPs Petar Petrovic and others. For 31, against 112, with two abstentions, it did not vote 55, a total of 200. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I put the amendments tabled by the MPs Radojko Petrovic and Dragan Jovanovic on Article 93. For 33, against 114, 51 didn't vote, a total of 198. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I put the amendments to the 98th vote together by MPs Petar Petrovic, Milos Lukic, Adam Urosevic and Milos Todorovic. For 36, against 109, no 55, a total of 200. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I am putting on the vote for the amendments tabled by MP Miroslav Christodulo on the 100th. For seven, against 100, three abstentions, it didn't vote 90, a total of 200. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I am putting on the vote for amendments submitted to article 101 by MP Ljubisa Maravic. For 35, against 113, abstention one, did not vote 52, a total of 201. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I am putting on the vote for amendments submitted by MP Golub Rajic to Article 102. For 35, against 111, a abstentioned one, did not vote 54, a total of 201. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I am putting on the vote for amendments submitted by MP Velimir Simonovic to Article 102. For 27, against 96, with seven abstentions, did not vote 71, a total of 201. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I am putting amendments to the 103rd vote together by MPs Dragan Todorovic and Zarko Obradovic. For 33, against 114, it didn't vote 53, a total of 200. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I am putting to vote the amendments submitted by MP Miomir Ilic to article 104. For 29, against 112, there was no vote of 60, a total of 201. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I am putting on the vote for amendments submitted by MP Velimir Simonovic to article 105. For 19, against 99, with five abstentions, it didn't vote 77, a total of 200. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I am putting on the vote for amendments submitted by MP Ljubomir Mucic to article 105. For 35, v 107, abstention one, did not vote 57, a total of 200. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I am putting on the vote for amendments submitted by MP Djura Lazic to Article 106. For 32, against 108, it didn't vote 60, a total of 200. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I put to vote amendments submitted by MP Velimir Simonovic and MP Rajko Baralic to the same text in article 107. For 37, against 102, abstention three, no 57, a total of 199. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I put the amendments to the 108th vote together by MPs Petar Petrovic, Milos Lukic, Adam Urosevic and Milos Todorovic. For 32, against 109, there was no 58 vote, a total of 199. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I'm putting a vote on the Telecommunications Bill in general. For 121 against 70, 10 did not vote, a total of 201 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed most of the votes a bill on telecommunications, in general. We move to the 2nd item of the agenda: – MEETING OF MEMBER STATES After we have conducted a single search, I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of members of the Constitutional Commission, with correction. For 124, against 10, abstentioned 34, he did not vote 31, a total of 199 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted, by majority, a proposal for a decision to elect members of the Constitutional Commission. After we have completed our decision on the agenda points of this session, I hereby conclude the sixth session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly this year and wish you happy holidays, to have a good time and have a nice rest.
