ParlaMint-RS_2003-08-27-0.u33228	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening a session of the 15th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2003. I invite you to pay our respects to Ivan Jovovic and Pantelija Dakic, who were killed in a 13 August terrorist attack at the Bistrica River in Gorazdevec. Praise them. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I invite you to insert identification cards into your MPs. I understand we have a quorum to work with. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the following MPs: Marko Jaksic, Dragan Sutanovac, Milan Markovic, Milena Milosevic and Miroslav Martic, and Miomir Tadic will be late. I would like to inform the National Assembly that they have been invited to attend the meetings of the president, vice-presidents, ministers and secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received the resignation of Dr Tomica Milosavljevic as Minister of Health in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. In accordance with Article 202(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the resignation was notified to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia. I remind you, Article 202 is paragraph 4. The Rules of Procedure stipulates that the National Assembly, in its first next session, finds, without a search, that a member of the Government has resigned and that it is not decided. According to Article 202(4). Rules of Procedure, the National Assembly finds that Dr Tomica Milosavljevic resigned as health minister in the government of the Republic of Serbia. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, convened by the 15th Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was convened at the request of 102 MPs, pursuant to Article 79(3). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 162. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia have been submitted to you for the maintenance of the 15th extraordinary session, with the established agenda contained in that request. As you could see, for the 15th extraordinary session, the following D n e v ir e d: 1. A proposal for a declaration on Kosovo and Metohija, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: – Proposal for a DECLARATION ON KOSOVA AND METOHYA The People's MP Siniša Mitrovica, deputy president of the DOS parliamentary group – Serbia's Reform.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-08-27-0.u33229	Dear Mrs Micic, honourable fellow MPs, distinguished prime ministers and cabinet members, on the basis of Article 71. Rules on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I propose that we work today after 18.00 hours, if we do not finish, means until the end of the vote, until the decision is made.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-08-27-0.u33230	Thank you. I would like to put on the vote by Parliamentarian Sinisa Mitrovica to work today until the debate is over and then to approach the vote afterwards. For 119, 26 of the 145 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the proposal of the MP Sinisha Mitrovica. According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's MP Gordana Pop-Lazic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-08-27-0.u33231	Dear fellow Members of the People's Parliament, gentlemen of the government, since 24 March 1998, the session of the Serbian Parliament has been publicly and directly transferred, so that Serbian citizens could follow what their representatives in parliament are doing. Since the introduction of the state of emergency until today, these sessions have been closed to the public in the sense that RTS has not passed on the sessions, and after a longer discussion of who is responsible, responsible, who is challenging, who is making it impossible to pass on the session of the Assembly, we have today realised that the Serbian Government is responsible. I went out for the application of the Rules of Procedure, and that is why I am going to quote Article 169 of Section XI, which applies to the public of work, which states that the sessions of the National Assembly and its committees are public. "Sessions of the National Assembly and its committees may be closed to the public in cases of a certain law, if proposed by the Government, committees or at least 20 MPs. The proposal must be reasoned. The proposal is being voted in the National Assembly, without a search. "We did not have such a situation, at least not formally, that the government or 20 MPs proposed that meetings of the Assembly no longer be transferred through our state television. The government could only close for the public session of the Assembly. We have been informed by means of information that she has advocated that today's session be transferred. We are grateful to the government, no matter what, that such an important topic on the agenda today can be followed by citizens of Serbia, but it should not be precedentd and RTS should not be in the power of the Serbian government. We got an explanation that it's a public service, that it works exclusively in economic interests and that no one influences them. I just wanted to point out this because it's obvious that RTS is in the sole function and jurisdiction of the Serbian government, so if this is the only session to be transferred, the citizens will know who is responsible and who won't let the citizens see and hear what their people's representatives in the Serbian Parliament are doing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-08-27-0.u33232	There's no damage to Article 169. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. All sessions of the National Assembly are public. The public does not only involve the existence of direct transmission and the RTS decides on it. In this case, for your information, let me inform you that yesterday was a meeting with the heads of the parliamentary groups, where you were not present, I sent a letter to RTS and asked them to conduct a direct transfer of this session, so the government didn't do it at all. So you're misinformed. If you are not satisfied with the answer, the Administrative Committee will answer you in particular. Since you have no objections, we can continue our work. You have received amendments submitted by MPs: Momcilo Trajkovic, Vuko Antonijević and together Borislav Pelevic, Dragan Markovic, Petar Petrovic, Milos Lukić and Đuro Popovic. At the meeting of the Committee on Kosovo and Metohija, the amendments were withdrawn by MPs Momcilo Trajkovic and Vuko Antonijevic, who did so in writing. You have received a report from the Committee on Kosovo and Metohija and the government's opinion on the amendments submitted. I remind you that, according to Article 156(3) and Article 90 respectively. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time for debate of parliamentary groups, is five hours. I ask the heads of the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to hand over the list of those declared for this agenda theme. Consent to Article 156. I am opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly a single search into the proposal for a declaration. He has the word of the Prime Minister, Mr. Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-08-27-0.u33233	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Kosovo and Metohija as a minor eternal topic in these areas is once again on the agenda of the highest body in this country, and that is the National Assembly. The problem of Kosovo and Metohija did not arise four years ago, not 15 years ago, not 50 years ago, but much earlier. The whole 20th century has passed in solving this problem. Unfortunately, the problem wasn't solved, and everyone who solved it made the situation worse all along. Four years ago, on June 10, 1999, the international community took over to try to solve the big problem. The first time this problem is solved outside, not from the Balkans, not from the Serbia area, not from the countries in the area. Unfortunately, the tradition of bad solutions has continued. I can say it's confirmed and accelerated. Neither the international community, KFOR, UNMIK, nor anyone else present in the territory have managed to solve the problem, and have made it worse to the edge of a sustainable one. What today is the situation in that territory, in the Autonom province of Kosovo and Metohija, is that more than 200,000 people had to flee before terror, that 1,167 Serb and non-Albanians were killed, that tens of thousands of houses were burned, that about a hundred churches and other religious objects were destroyed or damaged, that 40 cemeterys were defiled, that Kacanik, Strpce, Glogovac, Poduje, Štimlje, Decani, Djakovica, Dragaš and Malisha municipality without any non-Albanian, without any Serb. It's the state of things. Worse than all this, no murderer or kidnapper has been found for these four years since the international community has had responsibility for Kosovo and Metohija. The return, as the main job of the international community under United Nations Security Council Resolution 1244, was done maximumly, with 120% in the case of Albanians, because in seven or eight days, everyone was returned to their homes, which is good, and by the way another 200,000 new residents of Albanian origin came to Kosovo, but it is not the worst thing that has happened in these four years. Under 2%, we can measure the number of Serbs who returned to that territory. Why? Because they were prevented from terrorism, because they were prevented by daily pressures, because UNMIK and KFOR's incompetence to enable them to return and guarantee their daily safety and minimum freedom of movement were the reasons for the return of Serbs, although they have a strong desire, to return only to that small percentage. What is the latest evidence of this terrorism and incompetence of UNIMIK and KFOR are the Stolic family, Ivan Jovovic and Pantelija Dakic -- the latest victims, three or five of the 2,500 victims of non-Albanian origin. In their case, there's still no information that there are suspects, that there are detainees, or that there are those against whom a criminal case will be brought. What marks Kosovo and Metohija today is a threat to all human rights, in all order, and even to the basic one, which is the right to life. Resolution 1244 of the United Nations Security Council regulates the safety of life in Kosovo and Metohija, the regime in Kosovo and Metohija, to the final status of the territory. What are the tasks of the international community or KFOR, or UNMIK under Resolution 1244? First of all, it's disarming all those who are illegally carrying weapons. A few days ago, we received information from UNMIK that about 700,000 long and short pipes are still owned by those who have no right to do so. The second task was to especially disarm those paramilitary formations that participated in war conflicts and which apparently committed war crimes, first of all, UCK. Is that over? No, it's not over. Part of these people have been translated into the Kosovo Protection Corps and the Kosovo Police, and they continue to do the same job, with the same goal that they did both in 1998 and 1999, which is the spread of terror and endangering the lives of all those who are against the great dream of independent Kosovo. The tasks mentioned in the resolution are also to carry out a return, which I have already said something about; to protect all rights of Serbs and other non-Albanians in that territory; to end terrorist action; to initiate proceedings before The Hague tribunal for all those who have committed war crimes on that terror, both for Serbs, for Albanians and for all others. This is still today an unfulfilled task and an unfulfilled responsibility of the international community in this area. Is it possible to bring the rule of law, minimum security and freedom of movement to Kosovo and Metohija? Do international troops have that power? The question is, do they want it or is it a question of whether they can do it? I think we have enough evidence that the possibility of international forces is great and that they can bring peace and all that needs to beautify peace in one territory. We have an example of Bosnia and Herzegovina. In Bosnia and Herzegovina, there are a hundred times fewer victims following the arrival of international forces on the territory than in the case of Kosovo and Metohija, following the arrival of international forces on the territory of Cosmeta. There's obviously a way, but obviously there wasn't enough will. We, as a state and as a people, are still victims of stereotypes about what Serbia is and how Serbs understand politics and how they behave when they have the power of state institutions and state authorities. Our common goal should be to change the stereotype and show that what happened in this country from 1990 to 2000 is not a rule, but that it is a difficult, bad exception, which is not a bright part of Serbian history, that this is an exception that must be very quickly, not forgotten, but pushed aside, so as not to disturb the further development of this country, this people and future generations. Therefore, the mission of this declaration is to rediscover the international public to its responsibility for resolving the Kosovo and Metohija issues, but also to show to the international and domestic public that we are ready to continue all our tasks and according to Resolution 1244, but also to what our national and highest tasks are regarding Kosovo and Metohija. There is another factor responsible for this situation that would have to change its attitude towards the Kosovo and Metohija problem, which is the Albanian minority, or their leaders. Temporary Albanian institutions have a high level of responsibility for a good part of the Kosovo and Metohija developments. They must be a guarantee of freedom, security, the lives of everyone in Kosovo and Metohija, and Albanians, but also of all others, in the same way, or even better, if possible, as is the Serbian Government and as are the institutions of Serbia responsible for the lives of all members of national minorities in Serbia's territory, from Sudotica to Presevo. If these institutions, these leaders, temporary or long-term, have a desire to show themselves as people capable and ready, people with the capacity to help create a multiethnic, peaceful and prosperous society, then today they have to show that responsibility. I repeat, most of the responsibility is in the international community and we have a new personality as UNMIK chief. I hope Mr. Harry Holkeri's arrival is not only a change in personal type, but a change in policy towards Kosovo and Metohija, a change in international community policy. We can be satisfied with the first statements and the first decisions of the new UNMIK chief. He said Resolution 1244 is the only guideline on his path, said he would not take advice from anyone, whether he was from the Kosovo area and Metohija or any other area, allowed Mr. Covic and I to attend the funeral in Gorazdevec. It is a precedent for the past four years, and it could be one proof that something is changing, but unfortunately, being Prime Minister together with Mr. Covic is not what can please us. I am sure that we all want that, that the representatives of the state government in Serbia can go to Kosovo and Metohija, not only to funerals, but also to weddings and other joys, to move into houses, to the first birthdays of children born in Kosovo and Metohija, and that is the responsibility of the international community. I expect that this good wish will be confirmed in the coming weeks and months, and I hope that in the international community, if not a complete turnaround of the problem, then at least a impaired stereotype picture of Albanians in Kosovo being victims and Serbs being eternal devils. The question is what we need to do, what is on us, at institutions, in Serbia's authorities, in Belgrade, can we do more than we have done so far. He reiterates that there is not a single task that the Serbian government or the Serbian parliament received under Resolution 1244 and that the task has not been completed. In many meetings, I ask guests from abroad what we can still do, is there any way that we can have a more favourable impact on solving the daily problems of Serbs and other non-Albanians in the territory of Kosovo and Metohija. The answer is silence. The answer is, there's nothing we can do formally, but I think we can do, anyone on our side. The commitment of the Serbian government and it seems to me that your National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is to strengthen the democratic potential of the Serbian state through daily activities, to show it in a better real light to the international community than it has recently looked, to strengthen institutions, to fight crime and corruption, to seek new and to restore ties with old allies that can help us solve the problem of Kosovo and Metohija. There is no solution that we can make ourselves, there is no solution that Albanians from Kosovo can make alone, there is hardly a solution that can be the result of our agreement with Kosovo Albanians, with the existence of our goodwill, the desire for a conversation that I now repeat. I think it is clear to all of us that this solution must have international character and international verification, which means that it will be accepted by both the European Union and the United States and the United Nations. This is what we can do, agree on at least some of the priorities that are important to us, and all the parties represented in this parliament, all the political forces that have the ambition to be remembered for the good on Serbia's political scene. I'm sure you're aware of the gravity of the situation and our shared responsibility for solving this situation, that is, this problem. I am sure that by voting for this declaration today you will confirm the historical truth that Kosovo and Metohija, and everything else, defend themselves with courage, wisdom and style.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-08-27-0.u33234	I would like to thank the Prime Minister for giving my word to the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr Nebojsa Covic, who is the representative of the motion.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-08-27-0.u33235	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the People, let us call things the right name: the situation in Kosovo and Metohija is ugly and very difficult. Now it is clear to many in the world that there is a humanitarian disaster replaced by another, that with this care for one nation another people is pushed into tragedy. The self-called KLA, including known criminals, exiled 250,000 Serbs and other non-Albanians, changed uniforms and markings, joining the institutions of the new Kosovo order, although everything remains the same as before: separatist politics, violent behaviour, endemic hatred for Serbs. What the democratic government of Serbia represents, the historic reconciliation of Serbs and Albanians, in some Albanian circles remains a dangerous idea. The Hague tribunal has not yet accused the KLA's leaders of many and irrefutable crimes, genocide, ethnic cleansing of the province and the persecution of Serbs and Roma. At the time of Kushner and Hekerup, especially Steiner's administration, KFOR and UNMIK rarely clashed with militant Albanian politics. It needs to be seen more than inert and less than programmed behavior. Fear silenced many international officials, becoming hostages to Albanian separatistism and terrorism. For their own safety, they seek not to turn the anger of Albanian executioners against themselves. That is why Serbs and Roma do not return to their Kosovo-Methochial houses. That is why Kosovo and Metohija continue to suffer the permanent life-threatening threat of the rest of Serbs and the growing uncertainty. This situation is being declared by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia today; on exits; on the Serbian state and national response to the situation in Kosovo and Metohija. I have no intention of explaining the text of a declaration on Kosovo and Metohija, where some of my ideas and my thinking are embedded, such as ideas and thoughts of many other people. I believe the declaration is a good document, and explaining good documents means questioning their persuasion. I intend to explain the political context and time in which the parliament of the Serbian state adopts the declaration of Kosovo and Metohija. Our debate today must not be poisoned by historicalism and by any other ideological and party deposits that have corrupted the affairs of earlier generations of Serbian politicians. I only briefly announce my view of relations in multi-national Serbia before 5 October 2000. Why am I doing this? To describe the waste in national and state policies left behind by the defeated regime; to clarify the intentions of the new democratic authorities; to specify the steps we are taking to protect national and state interests. Religious and national antagonisms for Milosevic's governments were so much so that only the greatest political caution and the greatest state benchmark could count on small victories, which would ultimately bring an acceptable result. He, unfortunately, opted for the argument of force rather than for the force of argument. In Kosovo and Metohija, where Albanians are the majority population, he was dealing with a rooted and primitive Albanian extremism and separatism, which instead of the former Stalinist nature mutated in the struggle for territory marked by parliaments on the fight for national, civil and political rights. Instead of seeking allies in the measured and moderate Albanians, he decided to abolish the province's autonomy and thus turned the entire Albanian community against himself and against Serbia. By this thoughtless act, he gave the stereotype creators the right to have a stereotype on Albanian disenfranchisement in Kosovo and Metohija and the international community, saying he was not interested in its disdain. The Albanians, of course, self-organized. Disposed of institutions, they created their own para-state, which is largely financed by dirty money, drug sales, weapons, cigarettes, and people. The big money, of course, has created large lobbies that some Western politicians, some businessmen, some media and some influential intellectuals have entered. The Albanian separatist movement, using the tactical mistakes of Serbian politics, has succeeded in global public opinion and the international community to hide its main national goals, creating a great Albania, by fighting for civil rights. What could the former head of state of Serbia and the state of Yugoslavia expect afterwards? Only the further style of the Serbs as a violator of Albanian civil and national rights, as remethylers of European serenity, thus creating a halo effect on a people who do not respect other peoples and does not adhere to European and world standards. Milosevic, gentlemen, has given an excuse to separatists and extremists, and it seems to me that his worst result (we will end quickly, you do not have to be impatient so much) and the worst service to Serbian state interests. No one else in the Western world wanted to hear stories of Albanian permanent terror over Serbs and a demographic explosion, for example, in which he and his supporters wanted to see only the result of the collective plank expansion of Albanians. Many Western institutions that decide on world affairs and relations, many influential individuals have begun to overlook ethnic hatred in the political efforts of militant Albanians, to keep quiet about their crimes, and to increase and dramatise the indiscretions of people of Serbian nationality. Do a little linguistic analysis, see what Albanian terrorists have been called in the West in recent years. They're rebels, they're rebels, they're armed groups of ethnic Albanians, and they're never terrorists. And today and today, this cliché takes place, so even those who shoot at the Serb army and the police can't call themselves terrorists but wood thieves. Terrorism is the spread of fear by violent means, I have spoken hundreds of times to my Western conversationaries and asked them: how, gentlemen, do you call the spread of fear of violence, is the nationality of the victim crucial to be called terrorism; why euphemisms? I was answered that the Serbian position was weak and that everything was said. And that answer introduces us to the following consideration and answer to the question: what did the new democratic government in Serbia have to do after 5 October 2000 and what does it do now? The new government first wondered what objective opportunities it had to take to solve problems in Kosovo and Metohija. The answer was - small, almost nothing. No one in the world, nor the superpowers can solve problems without constant reference to the prevailing opinion in the world public, to the opinion of the environment, to their geostrategic goals, to financial powers and flows. We should therefore first improve our options in order to remove prejudice about Serbs. We should have freed ourselves from old delusions and faults, so the first on the list was our mythomania and the need to exaggerate our own powers, to put ourselves in the heat of world politics, and to reject traditional allies from that world. In other words, ladies and gentlemen, we didn't just lie to others, but often and very much to ourselves. The end of the period of stalemate and national humiliation had to be ended by a strong statement repeated by many officials of the new government, that disowning war funds does not necessarily mean giving up the defence of the historic rights of the Serbian state in Kosovo and Metohija. The new policy of the Serbian state consisted in seeking a path between force and submission to force i.e. A finding in a complicated world of sharpened contradictions. In the "invisible accounting" of world diplomacy, we were written down as idols, people who don't know that services in international relations are always made with a counterservice bill. It was necessary to change that stereotype of Serbian indians, and therefore we have tried, not to look down on the international community, to be clear and positive in formulating our demands and offering favors, not to promise what we cannot meet, not to go beyond the limits of our forces, to present ourselves to international institutions as a loyal and reliable partner and a foundation in building regional security. The new policy resulted in the resolution of the crisis in southern Serbia, in the Pcinj County, and we hoped that once a tested and successful model would be applicable to the cosmetical opportunities. Unfortunately, where the international community protectorate was established, in the southern province, nothing depended on us or on what little depends on us. However, too much work was started by forming a Co-ordination Centre for Kosovo and Metohija, a state body that had not only taken care of the fate of the Serbian population left in the province and forced into enclaves, to take care of the Serbian and non-Albanian lives avoided and exiled from Kosovo and Metohija, but also to be a permanent, sincere assistance to the civilian mission of the United Nations and KFOR forces. The Kosovo and Metohija Coordination Centre was established at a joint session of the government of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, on 2 August 2001. His tasks were given to the Programme for the Implementation of UN SB Resolution 1244, which was adopted by the government of the Republic of Serbia on 2 October of the same year. In our two-year existence, we fought hard to return displaced and exiled, to find the kidnapped. Due to the known circumstances, due to the growing fear of Serbs and the unpreparedness of UNMIK and KFOR to protect them vigorously, we have managed to return only 484 refugees to the province and to the towns of Grabac, Beach, Osojana, Belo Polje, Mušnikovo, Money and Sredska. We gave the returnees help in building houses and infrastructures, in cattle, in agricultural machinery, in fresh foods, in the equipment of schools, infirmarys, health centres and universities, as well as in meeting other life needs. Much has been done to protect Serbian cultural heritage. The restoration, restoration and reconstruction of nine monasteries, 14 churches and three parish homes have been completed, and six new churches have been provided. In these days several other buildings, three monasteries, four churches and six cultural monuments are restored. It exhumed 209, and was identified and handed over to families of 57 missing people buried in mass graves in Kosovo and Metohija. By employing labour from Serbian settlements, we sought to resuscitate the facilities suffered in an earthquake that hit Kosovo-Pomorava County on 24 April 2002. We have built 184 new buildings of a total area of 11150 square meters, financed the rehabilitation of 850 houses, dozens of schools, infirmarys and parish homes and built 14 kilometers of roads. We've equipped 185 houses with new furniture. With the legal knowledge of our teams, we helped the arresters; they were before the majority Albanian judicial councils, and without valid evidence, they were sentenced to high prison sentences, but we managed to get 21 persons acquittals. Our expert assistance was available to the suspects, as well as the money needed for bail. We took care of humanitarian aid. We obtained and distributed 286 tonnes of seed wheat, 1,906 tons of artificial fertilizer, 460 tons of seed corn, 270 tons of seed potatoes and 3,000 fruits of fruit. Finally, we distributed 139 thousand humanitarian packages of food and hygiene -- 62,325 tons of flour, two tons of oil and a heating tree 4,002 cubic metres. In the important and successful activities of the Coordination Centre I am counting and our participation in international conferences. As chairman of the Coordination Centre, I spoke at 24 meetings, participated five times in UN Security Council sessions, and delivered my presentations for two sessions. At the High Working Group meetings, they were also our representatives. We have signed 13 agreements and protocols, the most important joint document of the Yugoslav and UNMIK co-operation agreement since 5 November 2001. After all, I will also say this: 23 meetings of the Coordination Centre were held at which the situation of Cosmet and our commitment to its people were widely considered. I cited these facts to know how we defended Serbia's national and state interests in Kosovo and Metohija and how we sought to correct the life chances of Serbs and other non-Albanians in Kosovo and Metohija. Far from any utopianism and masochism, our policy had to be moderate and pragmatic, guided by the means and strictly restricted by international and generally accepted regulations of Resolution 1244. In public confrontations, statements and interviews for the media, in statements at political and other gatherings, we performed without war rhetoric, we peacefully explained what happened in Kosovo and Metohija and what our interests are. And what really happened there? Two rights, Albanian ethnic and Serbian historical rights, clashed in Kosovo and Metohija. I have long claimed that peace in the province will come only with reconciliation of those two rights. This means that any policy of maximum requirements must be defeated, regardless of whose, Serbian or Albanian it is. Albanian maximalist officials have already drawn a map of their future state and in a blind, anachronous fight for territories they have already seen south of central Serbia and almost all of Macedonia as parts of ethnically clean Kosovo. By yesterday, it seemed like everything agreed to achieve that goal: Richard Holbrooke shook hands with terrorists and encouraged them to form their own army. The military's leaders have become NATO mercenaries and favourites of many Western politicians, who have shown an opportunity to help Muslims in Kosovo prove that they are not sworn opponents to Islam. In front of our eyes and in front of the public, there was a misappropriated military and police force, which went rogue. Serbia temporarily lost its sovereignty over Kosovo and Metohija. Albanian politicians, Albanians from the Kosovo Protection Corps, and what is the second name of the KLA, as well as those of the Albanian National Army, and which is the third name of the KLA, believe it has happened irrevocably and forever. He defends his defence with fierce violence, confident that the halo-effect on Serb villains will continue, created through selected media images at the time of the war in Kosovo and Metohija. Many have built their careers on that rough, black-and-white division of good and evil, victims and criminals. These divisions are still lurking today, despite the fact that the former victims, who have long ceased to do so, have taken the course of violence and crime. They are trying to preserve their careers and their influence by maintaining a virtual image of the former victims of a people in Kosovo and Metohija and by finding, of course, a quite "logic" explanation that crimes against Serbs and non-Albanians take place out of retribution caused by their attacks and provocations. Not even the recent detestable murder of Serbian children in Gorazdevec, who shocked the world, was spared this kind of attempt to put these new victims and these new criminals in the same plane and show that in the groat of Kosovo and Metohija they all attack and share victims and criminals no longer exist. ANA today seeks to destabilise southern Serbia and impose itself as a factor in the creation and resolution of the Balkan crisis, to prevent Serbia-Montenegro from approaching NATO, to drag as many countries of the European southeast as possible into conflict, to make the world define its maximumist option for the final calming of the Balkans. It is certain that there are politically reasonable and measured Albanians and may be those who do not approve of the use of violence. But they are frightened, I suppose, or indecisive in their position; it is yet that everyone in Kosovo and Metohija is unique and that the leaders of the Albanian National Army, surrounded by the "dogs of war", murderers of mujahidin and other formations, speak from the head of the entire nation. There are no clues to such uniqueness in Serbia and Belgrade. Ladies and gentlemen, in Belgrade, you will get many different answers to the question of what to do with Kosovo and Metohija and Kosovo and Metohija. The most exclusive opinion is this: Kosovo is a rock on Serbia's neck and the stone needs to be disposed of as soon as possible. Serbia reportedly cannot enter the European Union with lost sovereignty in one part of its territory and therefore, for the sake of progress, for the sake of the future, it should be decided to painfully amputate the province. I'll name just one more expression of political exclusion. To solve interethnic problems, to calm down secessionist rebellions and uprisings -- force supporters say -- need strength and sharpness. Apparently, those who decide everything, including the end or the end of borders, are violent and respect only force. They won't respect us if we continue to fight for our interests softly and ineffectively with appeals, resolutions and declarations. Others assure us that only a bit of fictitious or symbolic sovereignty remains in Kosovo and Metohija, so it should immediately agree that Kosovo and Metohija become the third republic within a already loose union so far called Serbia-Montenegro. The third proves that Albanians do not need an ANA, that excessive production of fear for Serbs and other non-Albanians in the province. We will be defeated by Albanians unremembered by high birth, defeated by the white plague, and in two or three decades, we will not want to, we will have to share our country with them. That is why Kosovo and Metohija should be immediately defined. The fourth suggests we fight for Serbian autonomy within Albanian autonomy. The fifth tells us that it is best to agree to the great independence of Kosovo and Metohija and, whatever the name of the province is in the future, to obtain in it - by international agreements-exteriority for moasters (by reputation of the monastic state of St. Atonska), as well as the right to self-government political communities, such as in Europe, where Serbs live and where the ethnic majority were. I have no intention of listing all the proposals and this is enough to conclude: Serbs, in talks on Kosovo and Metohija, move between concern and indifference, between emotions and dry rationality, between surface and analytical. Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we don't have that possibility that - without the punishment that history will give us - we're just emotional or just rational. In fact, we must be responsible for both ancestors and descendants. What is the need to see that responsibility? First of all, in our determination not to make any decision that our descendants, when they are in a position to decide, would be assessed as a quick and unfortunately, final solution, the product of people who are underprivileged to a historical task. If our conversants, Albanians and the international community, cannot impose solutions that will protect Serbian historical rights, best and most correctly, we keep the Serbian issue open until an international constitution can be established in which to be able to resolve the cosmetic issue fairly and permanently. We have not yet reached this crucial debate on rights, and leaving it for the future we must declare our deadlines. When are we going to discuss the final status of Kosovo and Metohija? I see a good decision in agreement with the relevant actors of the international community and of the European Union on the so-called The final solution for Kosovo and Metohija. We are in favour of meeting adopted standards on human and national rights before the debate on the final status of Kosovo and Metohija. If extremism and terrorism today dictate the conditions for negotiations on the future of Kosovo and Metohija, if the terrorist is a negotiator, tomorrow extremism and terrorism will decide on other areas of the European southeast and elsewhere, anyway. It will be a precedent, dangerous not only for the interests of the Serb people but also for other peoples of the Balkan Peninsula. You will ask me how long it will take until democratic and European standards are reached in the current Kosovo and Metohija? We wait another ten years if they don't reach in ten years. Will the Albanians wait? As you know, we bring a declaration on Kosovo and Metohija after the change of leaders of the international administration in Pristina. A UN secretary-general, who remains remembered among Serbs as an Albanian fan, left behind. A politician has come from integrity, which we believe will be impartial, that he will not be favored either side, neither Serbian nor Albanian, but will be tried according to justice and decide according to his duties. It is natural to give this gentleman, Harry Holkeri, as much time as his service gives him to achieve what his predecessors failed to achieve. Can the standards I'm talking about be met in a year? Can a compromise and sustainable solution be found in final status debates afterwards? All depends on the international community's readiness to apply its own decisions in Kosovo and Metohija. I believe that this preparedness now has more than yesterday and more than before, and I don't know if it will be enough to carry out an extensive investigation into the Kosovo Protection Corruption, in order to demonstrate terrorist uprisings, so that the perpetrators of the crime are sent to The Hague to discourage extremists from returning to their homes. These are questions which, I admit, and in sworn optimists cause legitimate chills and understandable anxiety. There is, however, what gives hope and increases security that the future does not have to be as harsh and uncertain as the present. With such positive feelings, I read the Memorandum of the Serbian Orthodox Church on Kosovo and Metohija, which ends with a strong call for the peaceful and prosperous co-existence of Serbs, Albanians and all other peoples who lived and who should live in Kosovo and Metohija. I state literally: "Why shouldn't both Kosovo and Metohija, as a sacred Balkan country, be a common country and an area (the Slovenian word area means both the government) of Serbs and Albanians, Christians and Muslims, two peoples, two languages, two religions, two cultures, such as that -- mutatalis mutandus -- the Holy Land for Israelis and Palestinians. For this co-existence and co-existence stands for America in the Holy Land. Why not stand for the same thing on this holy earth, God for the sake of men and peoples, for the sake of holiness, for the sake of justice and for the sake of freedom." Ladies and gentlemen, if we adopt today the declaration of Kosovo and Metohija, as it is written, we can explain to the whole world that the most responsible people of the state and the church have agreed on the principles of fighting for a multiethnic, multi-confessional and multi-cultural society. The priorities of this struggle in Kosovo and Metohija are the care of the fate of missing persons, the creation of conditions for the sustainable return of exiled and displaced, guaranteeing freedom of movement and security, defence and untouchability of property and, finally, the process of decentralisation in which we see protection of the collective status of the Serb community. We have a long and difficult road ahead of us. Every step we take must be thought out and measured, despite the provocations and challenges that lurk along that path. On that road, we must be determined, wise, and patient. And above all, unique. Thank you for listening to me, and I apologize for putting it a little bit longer.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-08-27-0.u33236	I thank the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Covic. I ask if he wants to take part in the debate of the president of the Kosovo and Metohija Committee? So, later in the debate with the MPs, thank you. We continue the debate according to the application for the word of the heads of Parliament. First, MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group, and then MP Dejan Mihajlov, and then MP Branislav Ivkovic and MP Borislav Pelevic signed up.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-08-27-0.u33237	Dear People's MPs, we would have to tell the Serbian public today that it is a direct cause for the appointment of this session and for inclusion in the agenda of the Kosovo murder of two children in Gorazdevec, the wounding of a larger number of children, growing terrorism in southern Serbia and the threat of expanding this terrorism into the interior of Serbia as well. We have been told openly that there is the possibility of terrorist attacks and in major cities across Serbia, in Kragujevac, Nis, Belgrade, and that is what woke our government and for which reason it has taken the right to provide us with the text of the declaration on Kosovo, instead of the text of the declaration being the product of a assembly debate, a broad assembly debate on this subject, however long it lasts. If we have to, I'm sure, we were all ready to sit here for days, talk and find the best way to make that declaration look, to whom it should be directed, and to whom it will be bound. It also raises the question of the legitimacy of the one who broke this declaration. After a long time, we were able to see Zivkovic, Covic, Kostunica together on television again as they agreed on the text of this declaration, and the only legitimate representative of the Serb people from Kosovo is the Serbian Radical Party, which has always received the largest number of votes in Kosovo. The final presidential elections are also evidence - the victory of Dr Vojislav Seselj with 70% of the vote. The prime minister allows himself, meanwhile, to say that he will not even discuss with the Serbian Radical Party as such a significant factor, especially in Kosovo and Metohija. We want to talk to the Prime Minister. We want to talk to the Serbian government. We are a serious political party, the state interests for us are always ahead of party interests and we will try, unlike Mr. Covic, to stately and debate this issue. That's why I'm going back a little bit, I have to, because since 2001 this topic has not been on the agenda here, although there have been such initiatives; both in the former federal parliament and in the parliament of the state union, the Serbian Radical Party has twice asked to discuss it. We had a proposal here for a declaration from the SPS Parliament Club and it was never on the agenda. None of the other congregations wanted to talk about it, here to this day. On 4 May 2001, we interrupted a session to put on the agenda a motion for a resolution on the situation in Kosovo and Metohija and the position of the Serb people. Back then, National Assembly President Dragan Marsican proposed that the National Assembly draw up a special task force that will, after the debate is over, offer a final text. The task force was to form a representative of the government, the president of the National Assembly, the president of the parliamentary groups and their deputies. However, there were only four parliamentary groups in this parliament at the time -- ruling DOS and opposition political parties: the Serbian Radical Party, the Socialist Party of Serbia and the Party of Serbian Unity, with the three parliamentary clubs. Today we have, I don't know, 11 or 12 MP clubs anymore. Today we only get a proposal for a declaration and we have amendments to this declaration. To be honest, the SRS Parliament Club has not sent any amendments, because we no longer know what the rules are here in parliament, when it is possible to refer amendments, and when not, because we have had a situation in which such proposals do not allow MPs to be instructed to make amendments. At a time when Hekerup wants to impose on Serbs the so-called legal framework or the Cypriot constitution, we are also considering a proposal to conclude the declaration of constitutional frameworks for temporary self-government on 30 May 2001. Both times the SRS MPs give you the support to vote on these two documents. However, everything remains a dead letter on paper. It would be good to remember what late Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic said here in his exposé at the time of the completion of the 100-day new government. He then identified three of the government's top priorities. It's the same government. The first priority was to establish the personal and property security of people, who remained to live in Kosovo and Metohija, because it was then found that living conditions for life and personal security were becoming worse and worse. Of course, this included resolving the issues of kidnapped and missing persons. The second priority was to ensure the return of the refugees, the exiled, the displaced, that we didn't call them all. The third priority is to create a legal framework and minimum institutions, which can ensure protection of the rights of people living in Kosovo and Metohija. They were priorities, they were today, but in the meantime nothing better happened, but everything was worse and worse. I only mention this because Mr. Covic referred to a ten-year period behind us, without feeling a shred of responsibility, which since 2000 we have referred to the situation in Kosovo and Metohija even worse than it was and we have not had any conflicts in southern Serbia. And since 2000, problems have started in Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedji. At that point, terrorist acts begin, and three municipalities in southern Serbia become another crisis hotspot in our country. Customs checkpoints are being introduced at the administrative border with Cosmet and the prime minister then argues there are solutions to these problems, although terrorism in Kosovo is not, he said, internationally defined. It's not defined internationally today either. Mr. Covic didn't tell us what he was looking for in the Security Council. He informed us that all his proposals were accepted. We don't know if he was looking for a return from the military and the police, and if he didn't ask for it, why didn't he ask for it, because it's very important for our country. A single soldier in Kosovo and Metohija confirms our sovereignty in Kosovo and Metohija. We have to keep insisting on it. We cannot allow Mr. Tadic to go public with the story that our soldiers would be in charge just to help customs services, to clear minefields and so forth. We have ways to make it clear to the international community that it is necessary for Resolution 1244 to be respected, that the Kumanov Agreement is respected. But someone needs to keep asking the Security Council. I can't see from this declaration that you're talking to the Security Council, you're talking to UNMIK. And UNMIK is just one outpost, an administration that is solely responsible to the Security Council. Here, Holkeri said well when he came: I answer only to the Security Council, I'm an officer of the Security Council, they're the only commanders to me. So we just need to talk to the Security Council about all the problems related to Kosovo and Metohija. The resolution, which we then adopted, was to encourage Serbs, who opposed the introduction of customs duties, and to create institutions that would provide their elemental rights, including the basic right to life, and then and in the future. We then asked UNMIK that within a month, we even set a deadline, conduct an investigation, which will determine and clarify the fate of all kidnapped and missing persons, to carry out their families and the general public. The deadline passed, no one looked back on it, no one felt responsible for it. The introduction of customs checkpoints was, I guess, a clear, direct violation of Resolution 1244, but we came to terms with it, although we failed to solve the problem. We didn't even call him a real name, we said that taxes, excises and so on. Nothing from the presence of our state authorities in the autonomous province and the application of our laws. The Kosovo Protection Corps was requested to be abolished. If you remember, this is where Vojislav Seselj warned you that it was a change of UCK, and you only now have the strength and shyness to say again that it was a changed so-called Kosovo Liberation Army. And today's Deputy Prime Minister, who is not present, then as head of Parliament's club, Cedomir Jovanovic, told us that what we should do must not be anything like what we have done until 30 May 2001; we must not make the political moves we have made in recent years because they have not been effective. Now we ask you if these political moves, which you've been making since 2000, are effective, have led to any improvement. It was a pale, unspoken resolution, a shy voice raised against the international community, but we also supported such a resolution. At that time, the president of the SRS, Dr Vojislav Seselj, pointed out to you the fact that the Western forces are leading anti-Serbian politics, an extremely anti-Serbian policy, although you promised before the election that your coming to power Western politics would be radically changed and that it was anti-Serbian only because Milosevic was in power. It was, of course, another scam on your part. The change of government in Serbia for Western forces is obviously only one facilitating factor to facilitate the achievement of what is the ultimate goal of the large forces, the United States of America. What else is going on in the meantime? I'm talking about the 2000 period since the adoption of these resolutions and the Declaration in May 2001, so here we go. Terrorism continues with even greater intensity, Vojislav Kostunica releases several hundred Shipatarian terrorists, allegedly due to lack of evidence, and terrorism has been proven. At the same time, there is a criminal case against several hundred Serb officers, and now we see that you are ready to send General Lazarevic to The Hague as well. That's what's worrying. That's what's wrong. You cannot call on the state interest and know what the state's interest is, and at the same time you are violating that state interest by sending General Lazarevic to The Hague. It's something you shouldn't allow. We don't have the strength to stand up to you. We can talk about it, but it's up to you. Mr. Tadic, the cold heart, comes out to the public of Serbia, without shame, without fear, not for himself, but for the state he represents, and says what will happen to General Lazarevic and who knows how many other generals and high-ranking officers. You can't convince us that you want good to this people and this country. The paper puts up with everything, and the works show how far we're ready to go. What happened to the kidnapped Serbs? That's what we've been talking about for years. For years, there have been representatives of the Serb people, families of those missing, kidnapped, who demand to know the truth about them. It's not true that you don't know what really happened to them either. The Americans know everything. They're the ones who support the Ship's terrorists. Those in everyone's head can tell you where he is and how he died. But you need to ask them, and you need to get the strength to tell the people. For months, there's been a campaign going on as our security forces return to zone "A", zone "C" and "D", and in zone "B" you've prepared for the Shyptari to have their own police, even though our forces were there until then. You've compensated every Shiptar for the damage he's suffered since the terrorist attack. What about Serbian refugees? Why didn't you do it for the Serbs? Huge money was given to Nebojsa Covic - five billion dinars, which is from the federal budget and what is from the republican budget. Where were they spent? We don't need Nebojsa Covic here to account for what he was doing down there. Let the government account because it's the government who appointed him. We expect from the government, when the final account comes to the agenda to pay us bills on where the money is and how it's spent. Mr Tomislav Nikolic, head of the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary club, then, in 2001, tells you that even then the resolution cannot lead to any improvement, because it only determines the situation and does not offer solutions. Nor do you here, in this proposed declaration, offer solutions. Tomislav Nikolic, unfortunately here today, cannot speak in front of the public of Serbia and you because, since the introduction of the state of emergency, you do not want him in this House, because the president and president of the National Assembly, by rudely violating their discretionary powers, has distanced Tomislav Nikolic from the session for 90 days because of an incident that took place early in February this year. When you're going to expire for 90 days, according to her account, probably not until New Year's Eve. Of course, that's what criminal proceedings are about, so we'll see how it ends. Meanwhile, we got the Kosovo Constitution, we got the president of Kosovo, we got the Shiparian government in Kosovo. You want to talk to them now. We advise you not to rush into negotiations, not to talk to them, that the only partner for our country's talks on Kosovo and Metohija is the Security Council of the United Nations and, of course, diplomacy, which you need to engage as an army, all over the world. But as things stand with our diplomacy, it can hardly be of any use.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-08-27-0.u33238	I'm warning you of an overrun of the time allowed.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-08-27-0.u33239	I'm asking for a little tolerance for the subject on the agenda. I won't take much more time away from my other colleagues. International circumstances, neither then nor today, are such that we can finally resolve the Kosovo and Metohija issue. That's why we shouldn't rush to finally solve it. What we are now afraid of and where you should show responsibility for resolving Kosovo and Metohija is this new constitution that you are preparing. You should not allow, in that constitution, that we have an Autonomous province of Kosovo and Metohija and the Autonomous province of Vojvodina. It's not good for the future of this country and this people. You don't have to go into federalization. You don't have to go into feud. Save a single country. We fear whether we will be able to preserve that resolution as a guarantee of our sovereignty in Kosovo and Metohija, because of what happened to the common state, which you have turned the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia into a loose union called the state union, and I do not know whether those who signed that resolution will recognise it as the successor of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. We Serbian radicals had a serious dilemma about supporting this declaration, which we have numerous objections to. We have decided to put state interests above party interests and, and this time, we are voting in favour of the declaration, in order for you to understand that you must hear the voice of the people, the voice of every parliamentary group representing its constituents here and that you are leading the kind of policy that is truly in the state and the people, and not as one, the other, or the fourth suggests to you today. We have to keep up with the Security Council: we want this, we don't give this, we can't under this. Activate a little bit of the Constitutional Court to look at all these acts that the Cypriot authorities bring to Cosmet, so let them be put out of force. It doesn't matter if they respect it or not in Cosmet, they don't respect it here either, but it has to go public. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2003-08-27-0.u33240	The word has been issued by MP Dejan Mihajlov, president of the Democratic Party of Serbia's parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-08-27-0.u33241	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable MPs, Prime Minister, the Democratic Party of Serbia has requested a debate on Kosovo and Metohija immediately after the terrorist act in Gorazdevec, but not only the debate on the resolution that was before and before, and which was brought before that, before that terrorist act, but also after that, to discuss the security and state of Kosovo and Metohija, not only in northern Kosovo, but above all in the enclaves in which Serbs are exposed to everyday violence, daily tortures and what the state of Serbia can do for them; and not only so far, but also what has not been done and what could be done, given that Resolution 1244 leaves, regardless of all clarity, a lot of space for Serbia to establish broken ties and in the sphere of health, education and in some other areas. Kosovo and Metohija are not only north of Kosovo, but above all enclaves where Serbs live in ghettos, least said, and where only communication with the world has if, with hard efforts, it enables UNMIK, an escort to reach central Serbia or northern Kosovo, which is something that for the Democratic Party of Serbia is a major problem that needs to be solved. That's why that session had to be held, so that this declaration story wouldn't wait. If we could, with the full right to seek an extraordinary session of the United Nations Security Council, then we could, regardless of the season of vacations, hold an extraordinary session of the Assembly and discuss at it what Serbia must do to its citizens and to its citizens in Kosovo and Metohija. I expect today's debate not to be a fight, but to be an attempt to get through every discussion to something that would only complete this declaration, complete a conversation about this declaration at all, and maybe give some new idea of how we're going to proceed. I expect by voting the declaration to replace the lack of policy towards Kosovo. We have unfortunately not had a single policy towards Kosovo so far. It all came down to two declarations, namely a declaration and a resolution, which we discussed even less in 2001, when the Constitution of Kosovo was declared, where we unanimously pleaded against it and asked that the administrator for Kosovo not declare it and, of course, the other resolution. The declaration should replace the lack of state policy towards Kosovo. The Serbian government has so far appeared completely unarticulated towards Kosovo, from the promise of the return of Serbian police to late Prime Minister Djindjic and the Serb army in Kosovo, which is completely contrary to Resolution 1244, to everything else that has not been done in the area of health, education, integration, communication with our citizens in Kosovo and Metohija. Therefore, the DSS, which took part in writing this declaration, should also be voted on as a basis for future talks, not negotiations on Kosovo. Is it time for this session to look for the culprits for the situation in which Kosovo and Metohija are today. Of course, we all here know who's less and more responsible for the situation, but what we'd get if we turned this discussion about the declaration into a debate about who's guilty and who's not guilty. It would turn into a fight and cause new divisions. We don't need new divisions today, more than anything today, we need a united stance on Kosovo, and that should be the goal of all of us sitting here. That's why we need to support this declaration. The declaration is certainly not perfect, but certainly is a basis that will be one rational start for the talks, and later for negotiations on Kosovo's final status. This is an opportunity for all MPs to stand under one banner, at least when it comes to Kosovo. Don't let us miss this opportunity, because that way we would send a clear message to both the international community and the citizens of Serbia that there are issues that we can agree on. If the Cypriots can agree on what they want in Kosovo, if everyone else can agree on their national issues, at least those most important and highest, then we MPs in the Serb assembly would have to agree on that. It is not necessary to look for hair in the egg in this declaration, but to support this declaration and thus encourage all state authorities and this parliament, to see the international community as well, and especially to see that Kosovo is otherwise thought about, in a way that Serbia is unique in terms of the solution to the Kosovo problem. The framework for today's declaration is certainly Resolution 1244 of the United Nations Security Council, the Kumanski Agreement and the agreement of 5 November 2001. Resolution 1244, with all the ambiguities that we have, guarantees the immutability of the borders of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, that is, Serbia-Montenegro, that is, Serbia and, in that resolution, essential autonomy for Kosovo within the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, within Serbia-Montenegro and Serbia, respectively. It is something that is an existing framework that we must stick to and what we must insist on, as well as the Kumanov Agreement and the agreement of 5 November 2001. We must insist particularly on what is the mission, both civil authorities and security presence in Kosovo and Metohija, which is above all a little unclear, as regards the security presence, the demilitarisation of the KLA and other armed groups; this does not mean disarmament, it means demilitarisation, but should certainly go in the direction of reducing the weapons in Kosovo and resolving the Kosovo Protection Corps issue, which, according to a decision, should not be an armed formation, but a formation that will help in various natural and other disasters, rather than be the basis for the future Kosovo army, as Albanians say now. Another thing would be, we must insist, improve and establish a final solution and essential autonomy, self-government in Kosovo, and that is what is in Resolution 1244, and we must insist there, taking full annexes and agreements from Rambuje. Another item is very important to us right now, it's protecting and improving human rights. The human rights of non-Albanians in Kosovo are threatened daily, at this stage I think they are permanently threatened and must insist on it. It should insist on what the international community insists, which is a multiethnic society, a multiethnic Kosovo. It's something we have to insist on and not give up on. Of course, we have to, and we can only come to it by diplomacy and by no means by force. Those who dream of applying force now, even from circles of government of various stories, that we should create armed units that would deal with terrorists in Kosovo and everything else, do not want well for Serbs in Kosovo, non-Albanians in Kosovo. That is not to be considered, the only means available to us are diplomatic, so all available diplomatic resources. Serbia has done everything it has done under Resolution 1244 and must also insist on it. It must insist on the obligations of the international community, as the international community is precisely the most responsible for the situation in Kosovo. According to Resolution 1244, so securely, so the civilian presence of the international community in Kosovo means responsibility, and it stands in the resolution, for the situation in Kosovo, not only security, not only the human rights situation, but the situation in the area of the economy. A series of overruns by representatives of the international community were in Kosovo compared to Resolution 1244, both during the formation of the Kosovo Protection Corps, during the declaration of the Constitution, both when privatising in Kosovo, what must be addressed and what must be warned by the international community. The international community is most responsible for the rise in violence in Kosovo, because its representatives in Kosovo have done nothing, we will see if the new representative does anything, but did nothing to curb violence and terrorism in Kosovo and did nothing to bring crime, drug trafficking, which is the main source of financing various Shipar lobbies around the world, to stop, and thus to bring Kosovo society to order, law, rule of law, strong institutions. There is no such thing in Kosovo.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-08-27-0.u33242	Do you want to use the next 10 minutes?
ParlaMint-RS_2003-08-27-0.u33243	I'm using. Serbia must insist precisely on those parts of Resolution 1244, to work on building Kosovo's democratic institutions, to work on respect for the rights and to take advantage of all available opportunities under Resolution 1244 and to establish links between Kosovo and Belgrade, or the authorities in Serbia with Serbian citizens in Kosovo. What do you do? Mr. Covic and many others have mentioned it so far, what to do. There are various demands, various proposals, from the need to return militaryly to Kosovo, which would be completely insane and would lead us to a new confrontation with the international community, to those proposals that need to be changed, say Resolution 1244. Defence Minister Boris Tadic has mentioned it several times, and I sincerely hope it is his personal position, that it is neither the Democratic Party nor the Government nor anyone else. In the current situation, talk about the change in Resolution 1244, in a situation where at the Security Council session on a terrorist act in Gorazdevec, some use terms as an isolated incident or as an individual act, to ask to change Resolution 1244, which states that Kosovo is part of Serbia and that it should be part of the SRJ, or Serbia to enjoy autonomy, is completely against Serbia's interest. I think that, if Mr. Tadic asked for it, it is not the Council of Ministers' position or the position of the government in Serbia, but rather his rather light and laity statement, which, fortunately, has not produced the consequences so far. Whether or not they will be seen, but not yet. So we should not think about changing Resolution 1244 because it can only be at Serbia's expense, but should insist on its full implementation. We must look for a solution not in a way that mentions some international NGOs that finance various lobbies in the world and that advocate the division of Kosovo. Unfortunately, Kosovo's division has also begun to advocate some parties in Serbia. Not only the NGO in Serbia, but also some parties in Serbia and this party of the ruling DOS. It is contrary to Serbia's interests. The partition of Kosovo, as some advocate, would raise the issue not only of Kosovo but also of southern Serbia, because if you follow a map of the great Albania or Kosovo, as Albanians see it, they include several municipalities in southern Serbia. The partition of Kosovo is a solution that advocates various NGOs in the world, funded also whether this money we mentioned, smuggling or other channels or other money, but certainly advocates those who do not want the issue in Kosovo and Metohija to be resolved in a way that will establish a civil multi-entity society, in which there will be strong democratic institutions, the rule of law within Serbia-Montenegro and which will enjoy full autonomy. So, there is no need to mention the division of Kosovo, and I think that the result of this declaration and precisely all the stories about the Serbian state's strategies on Kosovo should be such that there is no division of Kosovo and that no one in Serbia should advocate the division of Kosovo. Kosovo must be one continent within Serbia, that is, Resolution 1244 clearly says, it is talking about Serbia-Montenegro's non-violence and we must insist on that. He who advocates the division of Kosovo advocates the destruction of Serbia and the opening of all other separatism processes in Serbia, which is disastrous and certainly not our interest but the interest of Albanians. How do you resolve the Kosovo issue? Serbian citizens expect an answer from us. What do we suggest? The Democratic Party of Serbia proposes a broad autonomy for Kosovo within Serbia and autonomy for Serbs and non-Albanians in Kosovo. Autonomy in autonomy, a solution that can make life possible for non-Albanians in Kosovo. It is something that is acceptable from the international community's point of view and from Serbia's position as a state. Do we need to start negotiations now? No, I don't. Talk yes, negotiate no. We with the international community need to talk about meeting its obligations under Resolution 1244, which is respect for human rights, establishing a multiethnic society, security for all citizens in Kosovo, regardless of religious and national membership. Only when all the elements mentioned in Resolution 1244 are established for normal life in Kosovo are we able to discuss and negotiate Kosovo's final status. While these conditions and the reasons why we do not want to negotiate on Kosovo do not come true, we will not negotiate on Kosovo and no state body from Serbia has the mandate to negotiate Kosovo's future and final status. The international community's obligations under Resolution 1244 can be discussed, but no one can negotiate and that is why this declaration is important, to determine who does what and how much authority it has. And no party, whichever coalition it belonged to, can advocate the division of Kosovo, if the assembly adopts a declaration that prevents it and envisions Kosovo's final status as autonomy within Serbia. It cannot be negotiated now, and those who now advocate negotiations on final status simply have to stop it. The rights of non-Albanians, Serbs in Kosovo, their security, privatisation, the Kosovo Protection Corps and all other matters can be discussed, but no negotiation should be made and anyone performing on behalf of Serbia should not negotiate Kosovo's final status. This is a process and the Democratic Party of Serbia is determined to endure in this process, no matter how long it will last. This process won't last a year or two, it might take 10, 20 years, maybe more. For history, it's a small period of time. It may be a long one for us, but it's small for history and we have to endure it. That is why this declaration is important as one basis, to replace and lay the health foundations of the Kosovo strategy. The Democratic Party of Serbia will therefore insist that all of this declaration must be respected, and above all the government, which must take advantage of all possibilities under Resolution 1244, to establish broken ties with Serbian citizens in Kosovo, Serbs in Kosovo, in enclaves, in northern Kosovo, wherever they find them. These ties must not be broken, and UNMIK's administration in Kosovo must not be lightly allowed to lead our schools, our hospitals, to allow them to take over anything that is not regulated by Resolution 1244. What is not regulated by this resolution simply represents the right of the Serbian state to act towards citizens in Kosovo and thus the Government of the Republic of Serbia and all state authorities must insist. I expect that, after this declaration, the Coordination Centre and the Government will create a precise action plan to achieve the rights and competences that the international community has not taken on by Resolution 1244. Everything they have not taken on is left to us and these broken ties must be made, must be established; and of course, Serbia must insist at The Hague Court and The Hague Prosecutor's Office to move forward with the trial for the crimes that the Cypriots have committed against Serbs and other non-Albanians in Kosovo.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-08-27-0.u33244	I'm warning you of an overrun of the time allowed.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-08-27-0.u33245	I'm done. This would significantly contribute to the confidence of Serbian citizens towards the international community, to the establishment of general trust in this region and to the change in overall images of Kosovo and Serbs in Kosovo and the international community. In this way, they would certainly contribute to a different view of the Kosovo issue, not to be empty letters from Minister Batic Karli del Ponte, but to be one of the national authorities involved in co-operation with The Hague court. The DSS will support this declaration as a basis and will do everything possible to address the Kosovo issue as soon as possible, and we are ready and we will have the strength to banish the process.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-08-27-0.u33246	The word is by MP Branislav Ivkovic, president of the Socialist People's Party. Here you go. Do you use 10 or 20 minutes, so I don't interrupt? Ten, good.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-08-27-0.u33247	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it should never happen that we in the O.R. forget why we are gathered here. We are gathered together because of one personal shame and impotence, because of everything that is happening to our countrymen in Kosovo and Metohija. We are gathered together because we are ashamed that we did not know better in the past to decide, work and act so that what is happening today will not happen. We are gathered here because two bare-handed, literally bare-handed children were killed within 15 metres of KFOR armed soldiers. We are gathered together to decide that we are uniquely acting, hopefully, using the greatest mind, reason and style, the right style to do something on the international agenda. Cosmet cannot and must not be used for promotional marketing performances for this pay phone. Whoever does it here or already does it has committed political suicide. That is why the Socialist People's Party calls for a national consensus on a couple of national and national excellencies, which is resolving Kosovo and Metohija's status within Serbia and the state union of Serbia-Montenegro. Were there any mistakes in the past? Yes, and there have been mistakes towards Kosovo and Metohija, especially in the last decade, but especially in the last three years. The extremity is an extremity. We're all smart now, but it's a question of how one of us would react to our alleged blind spots of miners, who had previously eaten bananas and drank alpine milk from Slovenia. In order for any of us to react to the penetration of broken bottles of men, Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija. So one of us would react to the murdered six young men at the Panda cafe in Peca. Perhaps many of us would have been hotheads rather than those who decided at the time. It's not easy to talk about the past, it's easy today when there's an ex post mind, it's hard then, at that point, to keep a cool head and measure it. Anyway, it was foolish to go after someone you can't even go after when you have a back, especially when you don't have a back. There have been errors in the 1990s, and especially in those who have assessed the situation in Kosovo and Metohija on behalf of us and have proposed moves to be dragged. What do we have from those mistakes stories? There have been mistakes since 2000. Who allowed himself to have Resolution 1244 and Article 9 which clearly and loudly states that the UN's obligation with its security forces, KFOR and UNMIK is to ensure the return of the exiled and exiled Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija. This is written on the right side of Resolution 1244 in Article 9, only when the top left corner page is turned is a member of the 10th that talks about elections. And if it wasn't easy, gentlemen, that you've led this country since 2000, the opportunity for Hekerup's constitution and the referendum to at least negotiate and to guarantee by the UN's list that in two, three, five years' time, it would secure the realization of Article 9. Maybe it could be arranged to know the dynamics of return, three years - three years; how much money they give, how much money we give. Step by step, from behind, Serbian enclaves are being extended to the return of Serbs. Instead, what was done. We have an EPS telegram in our possession saying that all EPS employees are being warned, especially those from Kosovo and Metohija that they have to apply for a Hekerup referendum, otherwise they won't get a July salary. Do we have to talk today about these mistakes that were made in the '90s and certainly after 2000? There's no use, absolutely no use in that direction. We have to go the other way, we have to reach an agreement instead of a division, because Serbia needs us to. It's hard today, so if there's nothing else, there's one improvement, we're smarter, I guess reason is in the head, and each of us has more knowledge of what to do, too. Reason tells us that we must be measured, reason tells us that a shot with a horn cannot, that he cannot fight with those he does not fight. If it's ever the right time to perform like that, it's today. Today, we are gathered here because we deeply believe that the terrible, painful, fascist murder, not only the killing of those two children, but the beating of those who were injured were driving to Pec, I guess it gave us a chance to change the policy of double standards of the international community towards this country. I guess that's the moment for us to change, too, and to act differently and work differently. Another little remark. How was this declaration done? She was born by a group, a MP, who prepared a declaration through her authority and then went out to call for unity. It's not good, it's not good, because it looks like blackmail. It is fortunate that in that declaration, 90% of what we voted for in this hall in April 2001, with all votes, is for the first time since this assembly was formed. Why did we vote so easily? Because representatives of all parliamentary groups on the first floor, with the president of the Serbian Parliament, sat together and wrote a declaration. However, it is good that this declaration, proposed by the government, has certainly 90% of those estimates, findings and definitions in its 2001 declaration in April. The story about the declarations also raises the question why the declaration, why that. We had a declaration, a resolution, a declaration again. I guess we need to be clear that we're not doing it here and doing it for the international community, to understand and to realize that now is the moment and that uniquely all, without one exception, we stand behind this declaration. The Socialist People's Party will vote for this declaration because it assesses, understands and understands that the final moment in this country of Serbia is that we all think the same thing when it comes to a key national and state issue, which is Kosovo and Metohija, because right now it's a business issue, it's a matter of stability, it's a question of capital investment in this country, it's a question of good credit. Not bad loans, with which 25m euros is forced by the one that gives us a 300m-euro project to work on their proposition and to do the work of Fest Alpina. So now is the time to be unique and the Socialist People's Party will therefore vote for the declaration. We estimate we're in a good position. Experiences, like this or something, a lot they taught us. We estimate that we are in a good position, because most in this room had the strength to rise above daily politics and vote for the Constitutional Charter. We of the Socialist People's Party voted in favour of the Constitutional Charter precisely because of a preamble that says the state union of Serbia-Montenegro is composed of the state of Montenegro, the state of Serbia that has the AP Vojvodina and AP Kosovo and Metohija, which is currently under UN authority under Resolution 1244. Whether or not the opponents, who are now sitting in the Council of Europe as MPs of the Constitutional Charter, must understand and understand. The Council of Europe has received us on the basis of the Constitutional Charter. By receiving us, we have the asset, he has guaranteed the borders of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, we also understand the borders of the member states of the state community. That's our number one card, big one. Secondly, we didn't bring Resolution 1244. They brought it. The negotiating position is great here. What was not done when Hekerup was now can be done and those who negotiate can say - others do not give us; in the Assembly there is the majority for it, the unanimous majority for it. Resolution 1244 must be realized. Third, Hekerup had the consequences of a referendum, assembly, government, and what the government of the AP of Kosovo and Metohija did, which is considered an independent state government. Nothing. Is there any need for MPs of the Return Coalition to sit there? You don't have to. We heard yesterday that sessions last 15 minutes, only that separatist and fascist interests are verifiable and moving on. You need to get out of that fake congregation, because she is a fake, because it's obtained by not fulfilling Article 9. Resolution 1244. Let's say one more thing -- there's nothing in this declaration that the government can do, with the consent of this assembly, and then provide it. We have a position to have a large number of refugees and exiled persons, unfortunately from the collapse of Republika Srpska, Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, and lately most from Kosovo and Metohija. Supporting that people is terribly difficult. It's a tough situation, like in Jagodina the other day, when people from Kosovo and Metohija are thrown out of temporary accommodation. And we have many villages around Serbia where there are only nursing households and empty houses, especially in eastern Serbia. They're sold for five or ten thousand euros. Let us support the current government of the Republic of Serbia to invest money and buy these abandoned households, to settle temporarily, in state-owned property, refugees and exiled from Kosovo and Metohija, so that they can at least normally live and support themselves. That's better for them, too, because they're not on anyone's manger, and it's easier for the government because it doesn't have to spend the money, and it's all in its possession. Let them be there at least temporarily, while we uniquely, each of us, anyone in this room, any leader of any political party must speak the same - according to this declaration, then we will succeed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-08-27-0.u33248	The word is issued by MP Borislav Pelevic, an authorised representative of the Serb Unity Party's parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-08-27-0.u33249	Dear Serbian citizens, the Honorable Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers and People's MPs, above all, I would like to express my dissatisfaction because my proposal, which was submitted in writing to the Serbian Parliament's office on 25 August, that the debate on this so important subject extends from five to ten hours did not enter the procedure at all. The letter was received on 25th in the authorised office of the Republika Srpska Assembly. I would also like to express my dissatisfaction that this session of the Assembly is scheduled so late after a terrorist attack on our children in Gorazdevec near Peća. Should we have allowed the Security Council to schedule its session earlier than we are holding a session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I think it's a big failure and it shouldn't happen anymore. In fact, this assembly should be in constant session as long as there is such a problem between Kosovo and Metohija. I really don't understand what the enthusiasm for the outcome of the Security Council session and why so much euphoria after that session. I fully agree with the fact that for the first time the voice of Serbia was heard and that is what needs to be welcomed, but realistically looking at absolutely no results in our favour did not bring this session of the Security Council. On the contrary, in an official statement, in conclusion, there are not even words -- terrorism, even the word was thrown out. That's the first one. Secondly, no word on the failure of the KFOR and UNMIK mission in Kosovo and Metohija, which is obvious. Not a word about the implementation of Resolution 1244, which this Security Council has brought. And third, there is not a single word that the culprits of terrorist attacks and the insecureness of Serbs and other non-Albanians, including loyal Albanians, in Kosovo and Metohija, are their KFOR and UNMIK institutions. So, I don't see any reason why we're so excited about the results of the Security Council session except, I repeat, what success in itself is that the first time we heard the voice of Serbia's official in the Security Council. We voted against supporting elections in Kosovo and Metohija. We were surprised that this current government did not realise that by holding elections in Kosovo and Metohija it would actually give legitimacy to the institutions representing the institutions of an independent state of Kosovo, because they want it so. That's why we were against it, because we felt and we believe that the calls for elections in Kosovo must not be, because these are elections that only gave legitimacy to their provisional institutions, in which Serbian representatives are so scrutinised, above all representatives of the Return Coalition. For two and a half years, this government, the current government in Serbia, has not shown too much interest in solving problems in Kosovo and Metohija. I'll only give you one example to support it. Several times, Albania's foreign minister came to Pristina for an official and unofficial visit. Not once has our foreign minister shown interest and not gone to Kosovo and Metohija. This only shows Albania's interest in Cosmet, and what is the interest of the current government towards Kosovo and Metohija. This is also unacceptable in addition to honorable exceptions in which I can only list Mr. Covic, who is acting as head of the Kosovo and Metohija Coordination Centre, has no such examples in the Serbian government, neither before nor now. It's sad and it's really for every conviction. The declaration to support this congregation today is indeed just a declaration. She's general, she doesn't have any concrete solutions, and I don't even think she's addressed to the right address. I agree with my colleague that the right address should be the Security Council and that every few days we should put pressure on the Security Council, not their office in Pristina. I also think that the address should be a two-way, committed to the government of Serbia and directed to the Security Council, with a tendency of constant pressure on the Security Council and a constant warning of what is going on in Kosovo and Metohija; that terrorism is the same in the world, both in Iraq and Afghanistan, both in Kosovo and Metohija. I'm afraid this declaration, but I really wouldn't want it to end, as did the first two declarations, or resolutions adopted by this assembly that were directed to UNMIK, or their administrators in Kosovo and Metohija. We know that the first one ended up in the waste can of Hans Hekerup, and the second one in the trash can of Michael Steiner. I hope that this declaration, which will obviously be adopted today, will not experience the same fate as the previous two. The declaration only assesses and concludes, it requires nothing from UNMIK. We of the Serbian Unity Party believe that it has finally come and that it is high time that we asked UNMIK to implement what the Security Council has brought, which is Resolution 1244. If we only conclude and only evaluate, and do not require what is our legitimate right, then we will not get far, because I am absolutely certain that it is high time to demand that the tasks and objectives of Resolution 1244 be achieved, to ensure that our people return to Kosovo and Metohija, to ensure the free movement and safe life of our people who have remained to live in Kosovo and Metohija. So, with a declaration like this, which only assesses and concludes, there is nothing we can do, except that it is just another act addressed to UNMIK and KFOR. I don't think it's good that this is the way the Cosmet declaration was proposed. I will remind you that some other parties, the opposition parties, have also proposed a declaration on Cosmet and the Federal Assembly and the Serbian Parliament. We had a very high-quality resolution of the Socialist Party of Serbia, which was sent to parliament, we had a very high-quality declaration by the Serbian Radical Party and we have a declaration, which was sent by the Serbian Unity Party. If you don't think the opposition in Serbia should be consulted, then that's your big problem. Because you yourself are calling for Serbian unity, and you are not consulting the leaders of the opposition or their representatives at all. I think it was good for all the parliamentary parties and the Serbian Parliament and the Federal Assembly to meet together at the same table and prepare a joint text, to appear unitedly in front of our and international public. This would achieve the goal you are now propagating, which is the all-Serbian unity in solving problems in Kosovo and Metohija. It is a major failure, but unfortunately, it is the work style of this government, which absolutely behaves as if the opposition in the 2000 elections did not receive more than 1,200,000 votes in total. The Serbian Unity Party has proposed a declaration, which in our opinion is much more concrete and effective and which requires the Security Council to address problems in Kosovo and Metohija. We felt that this assembly should express its dissatisfaction with the outcome of an extraordinary session of the United Nations Security Council on the monster crime in the village of Gorazdevac and the escalation of terrorism in Cosmet and the south of central Serbia. Serbia's assembly requires the US and European Union to handle terrorism with the same criteria wherever it happened in the world. When Serbs were to be punished, there was a very concrete approach to bombing, and in the case of many Albanian crimes, access to qualifications is condemned. You don't even use the word "terrorism." The Republic of Serbia is seeking concrete measures in this case to combat terrorism in the Western Balkans. First, the introduction of a state of emergency on Cosmet. Secondly, the disbandment of the Kosovo Assembly, Third, the replacement of Kosovo President Ibrahim Rugova, just as the international community has replaced the legally elected president of Republika Srpska, Nikola Posposen, because Ibrahim Rugova has committed many, many more violations than Mr. Posposen. First of all, he publicly advocates independent Kosovo, which is contrary to Resolution 1244, and the murder of our boys in Gorazdevec has been called an incident. Fourth, Kosovo Prime Minister Bajram Rexhepi's shift, which in its statements encourages violence. The statement that independence has no alternative is directly contrary to Resolution 1244, it excludes the possibility of the Kosovo crisis being resolved by dialogue and thus destabilising the area of Southeast Europe and inspiring terrorism. At the same time, they inspire all those who have committed monstrous crimes, amnesty and encourage the next terrorist acts of their countrymen. Fifth, the decommissioning of the Kosovo Protection Corps, which stemmed from the so-called KLA, which is today the source of terrorism in Kosovo, the south of central Serbia and Macedonia. A terrorist organisation is the real name for the Kosovo Protection Corps, and it is good that at least we agree on that lately. The sixth, delivery of Sevćet Musliu to Serbian judicial authorities. And seven, within six months on the entire territory of Cosmeta, the property shall be returned to the right owners, and the private property usurperors shall leave the same within that time limit. This is briefly the content of the Serbian Unity Party declaration. Of course, we didn't even have the illusion that she was going to enter the procedure at all, let alone vote on it or be adopted. It is clear to us, but because of responsibility to the public of Serbia, according to our voters, we have forwarded this declaration to the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I conclude from the above that the declaration is inconclusive, that it was not done in the best possible way, that it could contain very specific requirements for the international community. But also because we always put the state's interest above party interest, which is indeed in order to achieve universal unity and Serbian style, because this declaration of support is also the Serbian Orthodox Church, and despite disagreement, we will still support this declaration, which is addressed to UNMIK today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-08-27-0.u33250	There is a word from MP Bojan Pajtic, president of the DOS parliamentary group - Serbia's Reform.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-08-27-0.u33251	The Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, MPs of the DOS Group - Serbia's Reform today will not look back on historical circumstances under which Serbia has effectively lost its sovereignty in Kosovo and Metohija. We will not look back on the political adventure of a few years ago, which has led to the circumstances that we have today, nor will we look at who signed the Kumanski Agreement. Today, this is the least important and today the political benefits of the Kosovo and Metohija issue are neither allowed nor should they have. What we stand for as a coalition, and what can be added to the sentence, written once by Ivo Andric, that the wars, even the longest, have only shaken up the issues that have raised war, and the resolution of these issues has been left behind during the post-peace period, is our platform and what we want to do today. We're probably in a worse situation than we could possibly imagine, without actual sovereignty, without the presence of our state bodies on Cosmet. Today Cosmet is the worst place to live in Europe. Today only in Caglavica, Gracanica, Gorazdevci children go to school in a car and it is probably the only place in Europe where children cannot go out on the street in fear of death or mutilation, only because they are different nationalities or religions. Today's declaration offers a guarantee of the sovereignty of the Republic of Serbia in Cosmet, the principle of indivisibility of the territory of the Republic of Serbia. It's a principle that we're going to build into a future republican constitution, and that's a principle that we certainly won't give up on. This declaration also offers protection of the rights of Serbs and the co-operation of all republican authorities with international organisations to protect the direct physical existence of our people in our southern province. It offers protection and advocates the protection of the cultural heritage of our people, which is not only the heritage of the Serbian people, but is the heritage of the entire Western civilization. He insists and advocates the abolition of those acts that abolished the legal system in Cosmet, which abolished legal certainty in Cosmet, which led to the legalisation of the KLA's terrorist activity and the uptake of property both Serbs in Cosmet and Serbian legal entities from the territory of the rest of the Republic of Serbia. This declaration very firmly guarantees our commitment to the path to European integration and to the European Union, which is the best mechanism for resolving the Cosmet issue and is very firm in favour of the democratic and multiethnic society in Cosmet. I guess those are the standards of the international community, and without that, I guess neither Europe nor the world would function the way they operate. This declaration is very clear for the return of 250,000 displaced persons to the territory of Cosmeta. It is certain that there will be no return of all of them and it is certain that there will be no mood among all displaced persons to return to Cosmet after such traumatic experiences. But it is quite certain that the miles in which children are killed, in which we have more than 1,500 dead in the last two years under the administration of the international community, says that it is very difficult to define for a return, especially in those environments that are multiethnic and that are not exclusively populated by Serbs and other non-Albanian lives. The declaration requires a unique approach by the international community in relation to The Hague tribunal, requires that in a unique manner, as judges of Serbs are and such as charges are brought against Serbs, judges and Albanians, who have committed war crimes and who today represent high-ranking state officials in Cosmet, presidents of some political parties, MPs in the Kosovo parliament, who have bloodied their hands and who do not deserve to be actors of a political scene in our southern province. Our policy is that there can be no talks, no negotiations, and we've heard here that someone advocates negotiations. We do not advocate negotiations, nor can negotiations be without providing standards of multiethnic life in Cosmet. Without guaranteeing the physical existence of our living there, you certainly cannot discuss the final status of Cosmet. But the dialogue must be and it must be constant. Our policy of dialogue, and with Albanian political parties in Cosmet and with representatives of the Assembly of Cosmet, with representatives of the international administration in Cosmet, with all relevant international organisations, from the Security Council through the European Union, is something we cannot give up on. Only dialogue can lead to those solutions that this declaration advocates. We also showed this commitment to dialogue through support for Serbian political parties through participation and return to the municipal and rural elections in Kosovo and Metohija. We also showed this through the pledge that the Serbian national community would take part in the provisional institutions of self-government, although it was clear that there was nothing to hope for, apart from shagging and discrimination. But participation in the political life of the province is one of the preconditions, it is one of the very strong signs and a signal to the international community that we of both Kosovo and Metohija absolutely have no intention of giving up. Our delegation, a delegation from this assembly, had the opportunity to visit Washington to make sure that such a policy and that it produced results and that the idea of Kosovo's independence is something that no longer exists in the international community and absolutely no treatment that she had more than two years ago. The declaration, which lies before us, we heard here today, will be supported by a large majority of MPs and a large majority of parliamentary groups, both opposition and positional in the Serbian Parliament. But the strongest signal would be at the moment when all the MPs in the Serbian Parliament would support this declaration. The best signal, the greatest encouragement to Serbs, so to our people in Kosovo and Metohija, is that the Republic Assembly unanimously accepts the declaration that represents the platform, which is a clear definition of the Republic of Serbia that we have not given up on our countrymen and our southern province. If Albanians can do so, and each time they can agree and each time agree in the Kosovo Assembly and the Metohija on issues that are of national importance, I don't see a reason and I don't see that anyone can have enough political courage to even penetrate what is currently the only national platform for Serbia's relationship with Kosovo and Metohija. There are only two issues of national importance and only two issues on which there must be consensus in Serbia today: the first is entry into the European Union, and the second is the issue of Kosovo and Metohija. It doesn't matter the order. It is important that these are two of the most important and priority issues. Therefore, on behalf of the MPs' club DOS - I do not demand Serbia's reform, I do not urinate, but I am asking all the MPs in the Serbian Parliament to vote unitedly this time, and at least this time we are voting equally on the issue of which is of crucial national importance. We are here today, I would like to take the opportunity to welcome them, and the MPs of the Return Coalition in the Kosovo Parliament. Do any of us know how many political parties there are in the Return Coalition? He doesn't know and he doesn't need to know. Why? Because these people are fighting every day in Kosovo and Metohija for the survival of the Serb people there and because these people are fighting both in the Kosovo and Metohija Assembly, in the worst conditions possible, for the survival of the Serb people and for the survival of that Serb grain that will define the survival of Kosovo and Metohija within the Republic of Serbia. So today, as the "Return" Coalition looks like, the Serbian Parliament should look as well. Disunity is something we can't afford today. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2003-08-27-0.u33252	Do any of the MPs want a word? National MP Zoran R. Angelkovic, deputy member of the Socialist Party of Serbia, signed up for it, followed by the National Assembly of Nada Kolundzija, president of the Democratic Alternative Group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-08-27-0.u33253	Ladies and gentlemen, it is good that today, on the agenda, there is a declaration on Kosovo and Metohija. The Socialist Party of Serbia proposed the text of the declaration on May 25th. The proposal for a declaration was also present before that terrorist act in Obilić, as well as a series of next terrorist acts and terrorist acts in Kosovo and Metohija, particularly and certainly before this latest terrorist act in Gorazdevec. We heard today and some other political money and parliamentary groups have proposed a declaration. We also considered it then and now that we believe that making and adopting such a declaration in this House is not only a matter of debate in the Republic's parliament, but of working together to produce that declaration and reaching a political consensus. We have now heard from representatives of the ruling majority's parliamentary group that it is important that we have a unique position on Kosovo and Metohija. We're completely in agreement with that. We should and must have a united view of Kosovo and Metohija. It is necessary that we work together to create such a document. A single position on the declaration cannot be sought when it is sent and published in public, and talks are not held before, nor consultations are carried out, nor all these proposed declarations are agreed. You can't go with that, as it is now said, we all go to the adoption of that declaration because it's a national interest, so we need to have a consensus on that. Of course, the Socialist Party of Serbia will never vote in this parliament against a document that applies in any way to Kosovo and Metohija, no matter how many objections it has made to it. We will not be against this declaration either, but because we have a clear view of Kosovo and Metohija, not because our position is that this declaration is done well or that it is done in a correct way, so that the political attitudes of all parties in thisparliament are approached. When we talk about this declaration, and today, we're also talking about the latest terrorist act in Gorazdevec. However, we also had a terrorist act last night in Beach, near Kline. These terrorist acts, day after day, were present in 1998 and 1999, these villages were constantly attacked, people from these villages were constantly expelled and expelled. So this isn't just about one terrorist act. We think it was good for the Serbian Parliament to be held for what happened in Gorazdevec, because in this criminal way these children were liquidated. It was important for that congregation to be scheduled immediately thereafter. It was not good for the Security Council to be held before the session of the Serbian Parliament, with all due respect that Deputy Prime Minister Mr Covic rightly represented the interests of the state around Kosovo and Metohija in the Security Council. Then why didn't we determine the platform for that performance? It's about the Security Council. It is about UNMIK and KFOR boss in Kosovo and Metohija, a centre that decides what will happen in Kosovo and Metohija. More weight would have been Mr. Covic's word in the Security Council if a session of the Serbian Parliament had been held before that session. Today, this debate has a weight, but there is no weight you would have had if the session of the Assembly had been held a week ago, before the Security Council session. It can't be said that we couldn't get together, that we didn't want to or that it was impossible. After all, already in the work version was the draft of this programme declaration. Of course, I don't want to talk about what's been done in the last 10, 15 or 20 years, and especially with those who've been in it the most. When they talk about what was done in the past 15 years, it would be good to ask themselves what they were doing back then. I think the Prime Minister told the truth about it. What happened in Kosovo and Metohija didn't change much, not four, not ten, not 20 years ago, not 50 years ago. Nothing new in Kosovo and Metohija is new, but what the Serbian government sent to The Hague in 1899, when it warned of the criminal activity of Arbanas, I did not make a mistake in that area. Nothing new happened in Gorazdevec, but what happened in 1947, and 1953, and 1971, when the Socialists weren't some communists in power, some of you who were present here, because then there was the Union of Communists in power, not even in 1981, when they were demonstrations. Nothing's new. When they excavated the children, they did the same thing, and that's exactly what I'm saying, in 1988 and 1989, at Prilužje, when they were exorcising children from buses in Prekala, which is only a few kilometers from Gorazdevac, and that's only because Serbian children, when they were expelled, were ethnically cleaning Serbian space and filling trains from Kosovo and Metohija, which Moma Trajkovic knows, so it won't be because the province was abolished. If the province is abolished in Kosovo, please let me hear to the gentleman of Vojvodina whether they too have been abolished. It's the same status. Then Moma Trajkovic was insinuating the people for nothing. It's not true that they were then threatened and banished, at least from what we heard today, but they were raising rebellion without any connection and leaving Kosovo and Metohija just like that, they weren't selling the last thing they had to fight for just having the right to live in their own space. You were killed in Gorazdevec by these children who killed those children in Peca, the Panda. The difference is only two kilometers between the Panda cafe in Peca and this river near Gorazdevac, just two kilometers. The exact same, whether the same name or last name, is less important, the same people who built Radonjićko Lake and built a mass grave at Radonjić Lake at the same time in September 1998, a month or two before "Panda". That's what we're talking about here, and then as a people, do we have a national policy to keep that Serbian ethnicity in Kosovo and Metohija. It is true that these environments have been cleared in Kosovo and Metohija, except for President Dragas. In Dragas now lives 14,000 Gorans, they are not Albanians and they were always people who wanted to live together, not only with Serbs, but with everyone in Kosovo and Metohija and loved the state of Serbia always. Yes, it's true, there are no Serbs, you said only Albanians live, but it doesn't matter, I'm just talking about the fact, I don't blame you. That's what all these other environments are about. So this is what these same terrorists and the same separatists who wanted to ethnically clean Kosovo did in 1998, did it in 1999, do it today and do it these past three years, is just the question of whether we have the strength and support in the world to prevent these killers and to be murderers without us declaring those who fought against them as murderers. When I hear Mr. Tadic replacing an officer in charge of an investigation, that officer who fought there against those who killed children in the Panda and liquidated the children in that cafe just because they were sitting in a bar, those are the same ones who killed the children in Gorazdevec, then we don't have a single national policy. We then have the opposite national policy, then we want to condemn those who defend Serbs, because tomorrow you will be on the agenda of what you say, because it may be extreme, and from some others, such as today General Lazarevic is on the agenda. Does Mr. Tadic read Resolution 1244? He doesn't read, because when he says he can't go back to the army or the police, I'm not saying they can come back, so don't be real now, but he can't knock, he can't say he can't; he can, so tomorrow someone can tell him, but he says he has to decide the commander of KFOR. Of course, not the commander of KFOR, the Security Council should decide, it is also the official commander of KFOR. But it's not about that, it's about reading the Resolution and telling us today where Resolution 1244 hasn't been implemented. I've been listening for hours and days to some who have said they should match those who have signed the Military Technical Agreement, that they should respond to what they have adopted the Resolution, and today we are all calling for a resolution and a military-technical agreement. Let's see what the international community, KFOR and UNMIK, specifically the United Nations did not implement since Resolution 1244, why they did not ensure security and security. Because you know the difference between Panda and Gorazdevac? When the Panda happened and those children were killed, the OSCE was present. Now it's KFOR and UNMIK. And then it was an international community and today it is present in Kosovo and Metohija when these murders took place. Only then, NATO bombed us afterwards, and today there was a Security Council session where it was condemned as an extreme force, there was no presidential statement, there was no major shift. We still have to say here today that the international community, the United Nations, their UNMIK and KFOR did not provide the basics for which Yugoslavia was bombed, which is that the security and security of citizens in Kosovo and Metohija were not provided with freedom of movement. Let us at least agree on these assessments, what is the situation in Kosovo and Metohija and what problems we have in Kosovo and Metohija today and let us at least agree on the fact that we must all be present in Kosovo and Metohija, but not to share Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija. You know, there are different political parties in Kosovo and Metohija and in Serbs, that's logical, but it's also seemingly true that the SPS there is the most present, most influential. When you go against people who are in the SPS, whether they're in sports or politics or even in the football league, they won't support themselves there even though they have 15 clubs and they play in shoes, because it's being run by the Socialists, then we won't solve the national issue. First, this banishment did not begin Covic, but Moma began to banish his party comrades because they were Socialists and to exclude them when he became president of the Yugoslav Committee. No, we have to accept the real relationship between those people who are there, let them choose, so we're here in this declaration, which we also voted unanimously, said we wouldn't go to the election, so overnight we remembered we wanted to go to the election.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-08-27-0.u33254	Ten minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-08-27-0.u33255	I've got ten minutes left, so don't worry about it, and I'm looking at the clock very precisely. So, we need to know whether today's adoption as a declaration, whether the government will respect that, who's having the consensus that we adopted the Resolution, so the Declaration here in the Assembly said we wouldn't go to elections, and then the decision was made overnight to insist on going to elections. Perhaps we could reach a political consensus and about going to the elections and having everyone participate in the elections, not overnight to make a list, you will go to the elections and have to go to all the institutions, and we have before that a declaration, the document of the Serbian Parliament, where it is said we will not go to the elections. So why didn't we adopt then, why didn't we call the Assembly then and change this declaration, say -- international relations, circumstances change, we want to be unanimous; the Prime Minister comes out here and says, "I call you, I suggest that the Serbian Parliament change that part of the Declaration, the Resolution and invite everyone to the elections." Why have we avoided the Serbian Parliament, why are we only looking for the Assembly when we need it at a certain point, and then we do what we want. We want, frankly, to help, to be present in Kosovo, and all of us, can't be just one man, let's not ask permission, but go normally, go, free territory, no one is allowed to go, except who gets arrested, and who gets arrested for what to do. But don't ask for permission, let him sit in the car and pass the path. If I'd asked for their permission when I was down there, they wouldn't have let me go anywhere, but you're going, so what happens? But there must be dozens of civil servants down there present in Serbian villages and help each other, let's talk about a deal, let's see what we can do. Whether we can get together in every Serbian village, they're not villages anymore, they're not even enclaves, I'd say they're bases of Serbs where they can gather, let's see if the state of Serbia, here if we have to check out a special financial plan in each Serbian village to create one drive where we're going to hire these people, first and then, those 100,000 that stayed in Ropotovo, Gorazdevec, Strpec, here they come back to Osojane, as many as there are, so many villages and those places, let's see how many we've made the plants there, so that those 100,000 or 110.000 stay there. In these three years, 10,000 Serbs, these three years of government, have left us, and we have returned 50 or 60 total families or individuals in Kosovo and Metohija. Let's see where we can go and without the consent of the international community to finish some work, so that we can all stand as MPs and representatives of the people in this parliament behind the government and these government policies and that these Serbs can function. What about the programme, which we Socialists also accepted, the Co-ordination Centre and the Serbian Government on Health in Kosovo and Metohija, around the infirmary, where Serbia will stand behind it; then we said that there is no, everything belongs to UNMIK, with education and secondary education in Kosovo, and then we said - everything must go according to UNMIK's programmes. Yeah, the rest is like that, but first it's one, two, and then third, look at your statements, I'm talking about it. We support it to stand behind the programme that was adopted at the time, around health care and around education, and to allocate financial resources, and therefore we will always vote and support here and when it comes to programmes in every Serb enclave in Kosovo and Metohija. I think we can agree on these things without a dilemma, we can agree on a deal, and I don't think we can share on these issues and have reason to share. This is not supposed to be, nor are we going to behave in this way today to discuss whether the government was doing bad or good, but what else we can do in Kosovo and Metohija together. And, of course, the government is a representative of that, and I don't think we should switch to another, what else can we do to keep the existing number of Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija and work to get them back, and in front of the international community to insist that Resolution 1244 be implemented and thus ensure security and security. When it comes to the return of the military and the police, they are not the clay pigeons there if they return, they should return to the historical monuments and guard there Gracanica, the Cave Patriarchate and all that is provided for at the border. There are smaller clay pigeons in Gracanica and in the Cave Patriarchy than we would be in Iraq and according to what the minister has told us where we should go. Therefore, I'm sure our army and the police would accept such a thing, when conditions are created, but ours is to insist on it and act accordingly. I hope, therefore, that we can be quite agreeable about the assessment of the situation in Kosovo and Metohija and the tasks towards Kosovo and Metohija, that we can all stand together and be even more agile towards the international community; that we insist on their implementation of Resolution 1244 and on ensuring the conditions for stopping the ethnic cleansing of Kosovo and Metohija; to stop being expelled and to ensure what they asked the Serbian government, which is freedom of movement. In 1998, Serbs from Peća were not allowed to go to Pristina, and now they are not allowed to go to Pec and that is the difference. At that time, Gorazdevac was allowed to go to Pec, they were not allowed to go to Pristina, and today they are not allowed to go to Pec. We must insist on this together and not seek the possibility by courting someone in the world, but by telling them honestly what the problem is and how we want to solve it.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-08-27-0.u33256	The word has a folk MP, Nada Kolundzija, president of the DOS parliamentary group - Democratic Alternative.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-08-27-0.u33257	The Honorable Presidency, gentlemen of the government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, honourable MPs of the Return Coalition, whenever Kosovo and Metohija are mentioned first, raises the question of who has blamed what is so difficult about what is happening in Kosovo and Metohija. Who's to blame that Serbs are in such a difficult position in Kosovo and Metohija, but we'll leave it to history only because history will judge those who did it much more strictly than we could today. Also, when Kosovo and Metohija are mentioned, we all think of the loss that is going on and there are indeed the right ones who say that the loss lasts much longer than 10 and 15 years. The first thing a man would want to do is in some way show compassion with that suffering, but then again, we think that those who suffer have no use for it. We as the people who are chosen here to, if we can, make decisions that will reduce that suffering and solve the problem, we should still let someone else express that compassion, and we should try to find, if possible, a solution to the conditions in which solutions are barely possible. For us, the question is what this declaration is not and what should not be: it is not and should not be a war cry; the call for a conflict with the international community, whose stance depends on the final solution to the Kosovo and Metohija status problems, as well as problems related to the situation of Serbs and other non-Albanians in Kosovo and Metohija; it is still not a regulation for behaviour in resolving problems in Kosovo and Metohija. So, the problem of Kosovo and Metohija is so complex that its resolution is a long-term process that requires a lot of patience and feelings for the happenings that surround us, for the changes that are happening in the world and requires flexibility, so that we can just make the proportions that someone would have to do exactly what we now think or seem to have to do. When we ask what this declaration is, it knows us is evidence that Serbia's top state authorities show to the international community that Serbia is expressing legitimate interest in Kosovo and Metohija, that the state of Serbia shows that it has its own national and national interests in Kosovo and Metohija and that it does not give up on these interests, that we show that there is a significant political consensus on what we have recorded as key problems in Kosovo and Metohija and as necessary steps to take those who have taken responsibility for Kosovo and Metohija. We here communicate, through this declaration, with each other and try to tell if there is a common denominator in what we call solving Kosovo and Metohija's problems. If so, then the address to which we point as a common denominator is the international community, which has taken responsibility for solving problems in Kosovo and Metohija. What Serbia can define as its national and national interest in Kosovo and Metohija has two aspects: one issue is the final status of Kosovo and Metohija -- for us the final status, we call for Resolution 1244, excludes the story of Kosovo's independence -- and another key aspect of the state and national interest is the return and safe life of Serbs and other non-Albanians in Kosovo and Metohija. I think we can do more with this other one if we show that there is a unity of political forces around it. Of course, I will not say what everyone knows, that before the end of the 20th century it is difficult to justify what happened to us as a state; it is difficult to justify that there were reasons for the countries of the world to bomb a country by defending the human and civil rights of a national minority living in Kosovo and Metohija. But because of what they did then, it now gives us the right to, in favour of respecting the minimum human rights, which is the right to life that is at stake in Kosovo and Metohija, remind that same international community of what its criteria were when it was taking measures, and that is very sharp about us. In this sense, I think that this declaration is an initial joint step towards our unanimous effort to create conditions for the elementary human rights of Serbs and other non-Albanians in Kosovo, in fact, create different conditions for talks that will follow in order to resolve Kosovo's final status.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-08-27-0.u33258	Do any of the other presidents, vice presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups report to the floor? No, I don't. ) We move on to a debate on the application for a word, and according to Article 89(4), in order to order the MPs to deliver it from the parliamentary groups. The first registered speaker is MP Zivko Selakovic, followed by MP Marijan Risticevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-08-27-0.u33259	Madam Vice-President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, the minister has no other than one, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, dear guests from Kosovo and Metohija, for the Peasant Party of Serbia today's session of the Serbian Parliament deserves special attention since it is on the agenda of Kosovo and Metohija. The declaration may be the most important document to be adopted today by the MPs, facing who knows for what time in recent years with the dilemma that apparently inconsistencies in the implementation of international community documents are opposed to radical solutions when it comes to Kosovo and Metohija or that once again clearly and unequivocally through the declaration of the National Assembly of Serbia repeats its views and demands. Serbia is defined for this second because the consequences of opposing the world with arguments that ignore the reality of the power relationship are, unfortunately, well known. Of course, the difficult situation in Kosovo and Metohija cannot be resolved only by declarations, resolutions and appeals, only by pointing to an inconsistencies in the implementation of a mutually certified policy towards the southern Serbian province. What would be achieved by other measures and different policies? Could anyone who respects reality believe in solutions such as those consisting of ignoring the provisions of Security Council Resolution 1244, the Military and Technical Agreement on Kosovo and Metohija, the joint document on co-operation between the SRJ and UNMIK? Do you want political anachronism with unsuspecting consequences? Which means insisting that sovereignty and territorial indivisibility of the Republic of Serbia be achieved through non-diplomatic means and even by force. How to interpret insistence at yesterday's session of the Kosovo and Metohija Committee that the military and police return to Cosmet at all costs. How to understand the sad fact that against the provisions of the Kumanovo Agreement, for example, those whose representatives have also accepted the agreement. Could anyone for reasons of day-to-day political interests, based on suspicious patriotism, be denied a painful, long-term or only possible solution to diplomatic action to implement UN Resolution 1244 as consistently as possible. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, perhaps the proposed declaration is not comprehensive, may not give answers to all the questions, but the proposed documents cannot be challenged and the possibility of doing everything political reality allows, in order to improve, as much as possible, the situation of the suffering people in Kosovo and Metohija. For this reason, the Peasant Party of Serbia, which I represent, will support and vote in favour of the proposed declaration on Kosovo and Metohija. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-08-27-0.u33260	The People's Messenger Marijan Rističević has the word, and after that, the MP Tomislav Kitanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-08-27-0.u33261	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the People's Peasant Party, as a former part of the Vojvodina Coalition, will support a declaration on Kosovo. Dragan Veselinov has, indeed, made a statement that he will not support it. However, both me and Mr. Sredoje Mihajlov will vote in favour of a declaration by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. We support this declaration, as we support Mr. Covic's performance in the UN, where he made clear with a balanced speech that human rights in Kosovo must be respected. A representative of the Helsinki Committee on Human Rights, and I think that is what the organisation is called, in connection with the crime in Gorazdevec, said approximately, that there was a crime in Gorazdevec because of the proposal for Kosovo and Metohija to be an integral part of Serbia. It is unacceptable for a human rights organisation to justify a crime by political and territorial reasons. That is why I would advise the government of the Republic of Serbia to hold a protest against its representative in our country to the headquarters of the same organisation in Finland. The problem in Kosovo was not because Kosovo is an integral part of Serbia, but because of the Albanian population's desire to separate the same territory from Serbia. So we can freely say that there has been a problem because of an independent Kosovo. You throw away, I respect you for having such beautiful blue pyjamas, but let me speak, and your heroism seems to have left only blue shirts. The former government, and this is exactly what I'm talking about, the former blast, with its stupidity, has only increased this problem in Kosovo. The fire went out with gasoline, and the problem increased. Today they're yelling like we did what they did. Resolution 1244 and the Military Technical Agreement are a product of the former government and we understand immediately, this government should be respected for making efforts to resolve Kosovo and Metohija's problem in a different, peaceful way. With full respect for the human rights of all ethnic communities in Kosovo, however, to the international community, both UNMIK and KFOR, a clear signal needs to be sent that they must meet Resolution 1244 and, in accordance with that resolution, ensure respect for the human rights of all ethnic communities in Kosovo. Also, the international community, according to us, should be left with a deadline within which these human rights must be respected, or protected from the international community under the same resolution and under the same military-technical agreement. Then they should be told, if they do not solve what they need to solve, that we will return there, not with hundreds of soldiers, but that we will return with hundreds of thousands of soldiers to ensure the human rights of all Kosovo residents, which the international community had a task to do and did not. On the occasion of the proposal to divide Kosovo, since the country was created by peasant labor, blood and the sweat of peasants, the peasants created it without mentioning Karadjordje and Obrenovic, the division of Kosovo has no right to sign it. The Jews have waited 2,000 years to return to Zion, and we won't wait 20 years, we won't wait for two, and the Shiptar extremists and terrorists my message is as follows: when we get back, we will bring them back through the Curse, as much as they deserve in their relationship with the Serb population. Then Serbia will be to Drac, both better and stronger. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-08-27-0.u33262	Replication rights, MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, deputy president, SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-08-27-0.u33263	Dear fellow MPs, Mr. Marijan Rističević rudely insulted the MPs of the SRS. We are not in the pajamas here today, but in the most solemn clothes we can wear in these moments, with the image of Dr Vojislav Seselj, the greatest Serbian hero, who has always cared about the fate of this country and the national interests of this country and who, be sure, and now in The Hague, equally with us and more than we care about the fate of this country, knowing in whose hands he left it.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-08-27-0.u33264	The word has been made by MP Tomislav Kitanovic. MP Zoran R. Angelkovic? (Zoran R. Angelkovic, from the post: To respond to Risticevic. You have no right to a replica. The word is made by the MP Tomislav Kitanovic, followed by the folk MP Jelena Maslovar-Ralevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-08-27-0.u33265	Dear colleagues, the Honorable Presidency, just for a little while, I won't abuse much of your attention. Just because he hasn't been present in parliament for a while does not mean that the SPO did not pay attention to the national and economic situation. The situation is not very encouraging at the moment, and I will only briefly state the SPO's views on the Kosovo and Metohija problem. Kosovo and Metohija's problem has escalated even more than before, so the SPO is not satisfied with what the international community has done, and particularly is not satisfied with what the current government has done to address the problem. We think it should have been much more insistent on Resolution 1244. We think it should have been much more persistent to look for those items in that resolution. As far as the SPO's position is concerned, it should be clearly indicated to the international community that the concept that advocates, which is the concept of multiethnic Kosovo, is not feasible. It is not primarily feasible because Albanian terrorists do not allow the concept to live in some way. Pushing Serbs into the concept, it in some way exposes Serbs to terror and Serbs become victims of Albanian extremists. The international community must review the concept and our opinion is that the principle of cantonisation of Kosovo would yield the best results at this time. So, we should cantonize Kosovo. Where Serbs are, most should provide conditions for a normal life, with the protection of international forces and Serbian police. The same goes for the Albanian side. It is the only way, because everyone is aware, and the international community is aware that Serbs and Albanians cannot live together, together. According to what is currently going on, the main culprits for such a situation are on the other side, means the Albanians. The only way is for Kosovo to be cantonised and for those communities to live next to each other. This should be the shortest that the international community should take to solve this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-08-27-0.u33266	Thank you. The word has a folk MP Jelena Maslovara - Ralevic, followed by a National MP, Slobodan Tomovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-08-27-0.u33267	I will address you as someone who came from Kosovo and Metohija and I hope that you will understand me and that you will not view some of my positive criticism as malicious. The Serbian Unity Party, as well as other opposition parties, has repeatedly proposed to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia an emergency session to discuss resolving Kosovo and Metohija's problems, as well as resolving the problem of exiled and displaced persons. The government of the Republic of Serbia and the parliamentary majority in this assembly ignored all our demands and proposals and did not want to discuss it. The Serbian government and parliament themselves would still be passive if there was no tragedy in Gorazdevec, where two innocent children lost their lives, and four children suffered serious physical injuries. I don't know if that kind of non-interest led to that. There are other crimes that took place in the territory of Kosovo and Metohija, but I have the impression and I am sorry that this crime in Gorazdevec has taken us two young lives to get together and finally open this issue. I've got a few reviews on the government's behalf. The Serbian government had to take firmer and more aggressive steps much earlier, so that such tragedies would never occur; we should have sat down much earlier and talked about it because we would have shown the world that we were taking care of Kosovo. Another positive criticism at the government's expense is that I do not consider it a smart call for Serbs from Kosovo to go to the 17 November 2001 elections, giving the legitimacy to create independent Kosovo institutions, which aim at an independent Kosovo. I resent, too, that we have given space to all NGOs, some phantom NGOs that are funded from who knows what foreign funds, that on state and other TVs, in prime terms they spit on our people and that all Albanian crimes are justified by the Serbs from Kosovo and our soldiers and police officers calling them criminals. And they did it -- in front of the world, Serbs are villains, and Serbia is a cradle of crime. I don't know, it's your fault, but I'd like to go back to the resolution now. Only disrespect for Resolution 1244 by international administrators has led to a massive increase in aggression against the rest of the life in Cosmet. It also led to a lack of respect for human rights in Kosovo and Metohija; a deterioration of the security situation; the incorrect functioning of temporary institutions in Kosovo and Metohija, a realistic indicator of ethnic discrimination between the Serb people. The worst part is that the international community and its administrators have in a very bold way allowed the KLA terrorist organisation to change from one hole to another and become the Kosovo Protection Corps. It was thus given the role of the security bearer and the preservation of multiethnic Kosovo and the protection of the remaining Serbs and the non-Albanian population in Kosovo and Metohija, as well as of some peacemakers who will safeguard security and, which is the greatest absurd in all of this, they will protect and care for the safety of the remaining Serbs and other non-Albanian populations in the territory of Kosovo and Metohija. All of this does not surprise me, and probably you, which is the very process of returning refugees extremely weak: barely one percent. The fact that Serbs do not return to Kosovo, on the other hand, is the guilt of the international community. I also resent the international community, and we, our government, for not being extreme because there are now about 250,000 Albanians from Albania on the hearth of the expelled Serbs, who have illegally usurped Serbian property, apparently the international community, who have accepted all of this peacefully. I think we should have reacted more sharply there, too. The Serbian Unity Party requires that Resolution 1244 be applied, especially in the part of the Military Technical Agreement concerning the return of the military and police work to Cosmet, as this would also result in conditions for the return of exiled persons, our people. We demand that the issue of property be regulated in such a way that all usurped assets are returned to the right owners. We also demand that we prevent the destruction of cultural heritage, which is evidence of our eternal existence in these places. It is necessary to preserve our cultural heritage, no matter how many Ship's extremes trample and deny it. Let me remind you that since the arrival of international forces in Kosovo and Metohija, more than 120 churches and about 1,300 cultural monuments have been destroyed. It's one big truth and it's a big shame. Personally, as a man, I am plagued by one thing, which is a question that still today bothers us all -- what about the fate of 1,300 abducted and missing Serbs? It's not a small number. That's 1,300 people. Did anyone ever wonder how their families feel, how they feel, how they feel about these people? Someone's alive, someone's not, it's one of Pandora's big boxes and I don't want to get into it. But I also resent the government -- no Serb demands from Kosovo have been regulated, and we have been eager to welcome and run that 1,900 Shipara, who have been convicted by judicial verdicts for terrorism, amnesty. And what we got in return, please give me a hint. How many innocent Serbs from the Ship's torture grounds were released? How many Serbs, on one hand, are released? I know -- very little. They were arrested just because someone might not like someone or because they didn't want to sell the neighbor's house and come out, but lived in an obvious illusion that Kosovo might survive, save itself, come back, not leave its cradle and its graves. I don't know, about other things, because this may not be part of the declaration, but it should be mentioned that there is also a problem of exiled persons on Serbian territory, who have neither their homes nor their jobs, whose life existence is below every existential minimum, on the edge of misery and social collapse. I don't want to spread this any further, I think I've touched a little bit of everything, of everything that's important, because Kosovo is a topic that you can talk about for days and there are a lot, a lot of things you can say. I know this is one serious problem and we all have to approach him maturely and seriously, without any political poisoning, but I'd hate one more thing. Why, if the opposition has respected and accepted that Serbia and all of us are aiming at this declaration, i.e. to preserve Kosovo, why didn't you hear about the opposition's proposals, because all these opposition parties came out with good and quality proposals, good declarations, and I think you should have heard about them, and that all this should have been looked at, something taken away, something added, but to be unique. I hope that this declaration and all this will go better for the Serbs, but only with mutual respect and positions and opposition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-08-27-0.u33268	He has the word National MP Slobodan Tomovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-08-27-0.u33269	The Honorable Presidency, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am convinced that everyone in this hall and outside it is crystal clear and acceptable that any initiative, attempt or endeavor to start or contribute to the resolution of the cosmetic problem must have unique support in the parliament of the Republic of Serbia. But it is also not acceptable for the only or the leading way to solve the cosmetic problems to be to write and adopt declarations about Kosovo, whether these proposals will only be written by privileged parties or they will seem unique, including us, opposition MPs and parties. Therefore, considering that today's session is only the beginning of this Parliament's single decision on the methods and procedures for cutting off the Cosmotic Gordi node, I expect that in the next period of time, we will adopt a plan of measures and tasks. Such a document must answer standard questions: what should be done, who, how, how and until when. Otherwise, I'm afraid we'll write and adopt new declarations suddenly.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-08-27-0.u33270	There is a word from MP Ljubomir Kragovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-08-27-0.u33271	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the declaration of Kosovo's Cosmet expects the government of the Republic of Serbia to finally take some final stance on the status of Serbs in Cosmet. The government must clearly and loudly say whether it wants, whether it has power, power, will to defend the remaining Serb people in Cosmet. And if he can't, he'll tell us the same thing: we're in no condition, we can't defend the Serbs in Cosmet. The adoption of declarations is a process that lasts. Here, for the third time we've brought the declaration, it was Resolution, so the Declaration and now the declaration again. In my opinion, it's just cheating, especially the Serbs at Cosmet. It was an awkward scene, Mr. Prime Minister, when a boy from Gorazdevac asks you what will happen to us in Kosovo. And you tell him, "Okay, there are beautiful girls in Gorazdevec." He knows what his fellow citizens are like, but he doesn't know about his fate. You shouldn't have told him about it, you could have just caressed him on the head and wished him a quick recovery. Why do I doubt the government of the Republic of Serbia and this declaration, their honesty? Because it has been one of the most incompetent governments since the state of Serbia exists. Because it has trampled the previous resolution and declaration, which were unanimously adopted in the Republika Srpska Assembly. We agreed there was no election, no registration, no going out to the country's elections. You were blackmailed, for months it took a struggle over whether Serbs should register in Cosmet, whether to go to local and regional elections. Normally, financial transactions are behind it, which the Republic of Serbia took for a favor because it deceived Serbs and forced them to go to the polls. What have we done with that? We've legalized this Shiptar government in Cosmet. We should never have done that. We've been listening here to statements that change drastically compared to what was said before. The prime minister now says that the Albanian minority must be a guarantee of the security of all citizens. No, Mr. Prime Minister, the Albanian minority cannot, because it does not rule in Kosovo. There's a mob in Cosmet, a crime. Only the organised army and the Serbian MUP can provide security in Cosmet. No Albanian minority, no forces currently in power. You've leveled UCK, KZK and KPS in your presentation. And why did you force our Serbs to be members of the KPC and KPS? You blackmailed them, Serbs from Cosmeta, who now work in KPS, so they work in a terrorist organisation under the orders of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. And now you're equating UCK, KPK and KPS. We told you a few months ago that it was the same thing, only wearing different uniforms. But today you have dozens, hundreds of Serbs working in these terrorist organizations. Tomorrow, the people can say, "Well, you Serbs are terrorists too." There are so many Serbs in KPS, so many Serbs in the Kosovo Protection Corps. This declaration should require all Serbs to leave all Cypriot institutions. Then we're unique. If we say that UČK is what the Kosovo Protection Corps is, what the Kosovo Police Service is, we cannot say: you, Marko Markovic or Janko Jankovic go and get a job at KPS. And you make the Return Coalition, go to the District Assembly. And there sit the leaders of these U.K., the K.C.K. and the K.P.S. A consistent implementation must be required, according to the prime minister, of Resolution 1244. I agree with you there, but there must be a point where the return of the army and the police is the only condition for the survival of Serbs in Cosmet. Serbs now living in Kosovo will live and live without your help and with your help. Be assured, no one will banish us. But in order to ensure conditions for another 250,000 Serbs to arrive and Serbian institutions in Kosovo, the military and police of the Serbian state must come. I must also look back on Mr. Vice President Covic's presentation, which began with a sentence that I absolutely do not like: the whole world sees that one humanitarian disaster has been replaced by another humanitarian disaster. Which one's she first? Is she the first one caused by the bombing, Mr. Covic? (Covic: Yes. ) So you condemn NATO forces and NATO aggression to the Republic of Serbia in 1999. I'm saying it because he doesn't think it, he was saying it until yesterday, he justified that aggression against the Republic of Serbia. That's the point. You can't even it up. Everyone was also taken care of during the NATO aggression. No one had to run. The one who feared for life was gone. But no one was killed, no one was kidnapped, harassed, no one's house was burned down, no one's property was destroyed. And since NATO's arrival, we've had a disaster on Cosmet. Over 1,300 were kidnapped, over 1,500 killed, not to mention arson, robbery, kidnapping, embezzlement of property, houses, apartments and so on. Mr. Covic, aside from equating those disasters, I do not like it because he also wants to palely copy Mr. Djindjic. I remember when Steiner came to say that Djindjic was nice to us here telling us that a man, whom he personally knows, would not do much good for the Serbs, but would not harm them. Today, we also listen to Vice President Covic, who celebrates, says praises, speaks in superlative about the new head of the Cosmet mission. Why would someone blanco be good enough to have good intentions? We'll see all of this when time passes, so let's let his results tell what kind of man it is and with what intentions he came to Kosovo and Metohija. What you were talking about helping with medicines, food, roads, family buildings, residential buildings, etc., you can only talk about it in Belgrade, Mr. Covic. In Mitrovica, Prilujje, Gorazedvac, Čaglavica, Strpci You can't talk. [[growling applause in the O.R.]] You didn't do anything there, only if you didn't think about that trip with Brother Rasim Ljajic, or if you don't think about buying housing at multiple prices, then there was a concession: the house was bought for 12 million dinars, and the boss got six or seven million dinars. It's our Deputy Prime Minister's job in Kosovo and Metohija. I hope Mr. Marko Jaksic will also confirm what I said, because we have similar views on this issue. In the end, what the Serbian Parliament and the Serbian government must do is condemn any statement, even if it was a police spokesman, such as Darek Chapa. He says that ANA is not dangerous, which is written next to your picture (repeated to Mr Nebojsa Covic) in "News". You're being shown with a murdered child in the hospital, and besides, UNMIK police spokesman Dark Chapa says that ANA is not dangerous. He says it's a group of 70 people. Then what did the United Nations declare a terrorist organization? He also knows how many there are, but says they are not dangerous and that they cannot be a remethyl factor in Kosovo and Metohija. The government must immediately request the resignation and replacement of such people working for UNMIK, of course through the Security Council and through the United Nations. They're doing all this to us. Since the time for discussion is up, I would end with this: to solve the problem of Kosovo and Metohija, "Junky Gou Home", with OK Zivkovic and the inevitable Covic [[Applause in O.R.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2003-08-27-0.u33272	The word has a folk MP Marko Jaksic, right to replication, was directly mentioned in the presentation of MP Ljubomir Kragovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-08-27-0.u33273	Ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to the declaration itself, I could support it. What bothers me, in relation to the previous declaration or resolution, is what the same body - the Coordination Centre, should implement. It seems to me that the previous Coordination Centre has not been properly implemented. Why didn't he do it properly? How come he didn't do it the right way? During that time, for nearly two years, we had the decommissioning of the institutions of the Serbian state in the area of Kosovo and Metohija, under the company of abolishing parallel structures, and all that money from Serbian taxpayers. Don't forget that since then we have formed UNMIK's judiciary, which now passes into the hands of Albanians, that Serbs have entered the Kosovo police with the only unclear attitude, on our shame and shame, we have Serbs in the Kosovo Protection Corps, and this same Kosovo Protection Corps is now killing our population. I think it's for all of us and shame and shame. Because of all this, I say openly, clearly and loudly that we have demonstrated the institutions of the Serbian state in the area of Kosovo and Metohija and that we have participated in the creation of UNMIK's structures, a future monster of the state. I don't think we should have done that, and we didn't have to do that. Also, we need to know that our railroad has crossed into the UNMIK railroad. We have something that the Krajordjevics, before World War II, created and built, and then we easily gave it up and participated in forming someone else's, one of our opponents and foreign companies. For these reasons, I am skeptical about this new resolution and that one such organ, such as the Coordination Centre, is implementing. As early as January of this year, on the 19th, I went to Bogojavanje, to see the patriarch, along with a delegation of the Serbian National Council. We asked the patriarch to intervene in the conflict between Vojislav Kostunica and Zoran Djindjic. We wanted to create a Serb unity. It seems to me that this Serbian unity can only be achieved if we have the ministry for Kosovo, because according to the saint and tropar. It's designed like this, designed in a person or a man or a small party, I don't think it's going to be able to satisfy what's in the future. The ministry, along with a state council covering both the position and the opposition, could do more. If we are talking about a national consensus, I think it is necessary for both the position and the opposition to participate in this work, because only then can we expect to change the situation in Kosovo in one valid way. So, in these two years, it seems to me, we could have done a lot more than what was done. I think we could have done a lot more. Now the situation for a shade is worse than it was two years ago and independent Kosovo is much closer to a period than two years ago. I'm saying this at the very end, because in two years we've been building and creating something, we've opened the door to the state of Serbia to show up, across northern Kosovo, we've held more than 50 protests, unarmed, when the military retreated and everyone else, so we've shown results and we've done something so that Serbia can get in there, so it can go back there, but in a different way, i.e. through the Ministry.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-08-27-0.u33274	We continue the debate according to the application for the word of the MPs of the people. The word has been made by MP Dragisa Djokovic, a parliamentary group of the Democratic Party of Serbia, and the next reported by MP Zarko Obradovic, the Socialist Party of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-08-27-0.u33275	Ladies and gentlemen, it's much harder to talk today on this subject and avoid demagogy and pathetics. It is difficult to avoid demagogues from those who have contributed fairly to this situation, from those self-called or called Serb leaders who reach Belgrade and conduct their apartments, to central Serbia and to their house providers, and to the people in Kosovo to sell fog. Many of them, the apartments they spend, received funds from the state of Serbia and the government that are most under attack, which they most criticise. When they reach Belgrade, they stop at some media centre or where a press conference can be held, and then a series of plots and attacks, starting with the government, the Coordination Centre, one, the other, the third, the fifth, the tenth, etc. I didn't go out for a pay phone to get a round of applause. I'm sure my speech won't deserve applause, because the Serbs suffered the most from those they applauded the most. No one applauded Joseph Broz from the Serbs anymore. I'm going to say something today that won't require applause. We've had enough applause. We should do a little more work and a little less applause. As for the declaration, I wouldn't talk about it much. I'd just point out that we already had a declaration and a resolution. This should be directed towards the international public, to the international community and to the responsible actors in that international community, to remind them of what they did not do and what they had an obligation to do. This should be something with which our side, with which our politicians would perform and where we would have a foothold. The international community didn't do much of what's being said here. As a man living in Kosovo and Metohija, I know there is no security, I know there is no freedom of movement. It's illusory to speak, the life of Serbs is reduced, except in part, where something better is part of the north, to concentration camps, to ghettos, it's embarrassing in the 21st century to live like that. There is no return, there is simply no return, because the international community is responsible for the return, the international community does not want to return Serbs. We have to find a way to force her or at least warn her that she has not fulfilled her obligation. For example, Serbs are denied the right to work, when we mention this economic factor, and with the right to work, there is the right to economic life, and Serbs, if they have their own, have mentioned factories, if they had anything to sell to, Serbs have their own agricultural properties and who they will sell to, how they will sell, and how they will move. They have been expelled from all major collectives in Kosovo and Metohija, their work has been disabled. You know that Serbian experts have been very successful in very difficult conditions for the electricity industry of Kosovo and Metohija, today all the international community cannot produce as much energy as they once produced while both Serbs and Albanians worked in it. Then banishment from Trepce, Serbs from Pristina, Peći and Prizren; then agricultural combinations were built on a Serbian country that was nationalised and taken away, where Serbian firms invested; their right to life was denied. Let me just point out, this privatisation thing, it's a robbery, it's what UNMIK or someone from UNMIK is, unfortunately, doing, it's pure kidnapping and exorcising rights both to life and to return, and to existence. The other side is our country, our government and our diplomacy. What have we done and what haven't we done? What should we do? I'll take so much freedom to say that personally I'm not at all satisfied with what and how our diplomacy is doing. I think Kosovo is priority number one and it has to be. However, we have problems, and we can't agree, I'm not saying -- you can't agree, but I say -- we can't agree on which quotas we're going to distribute to which party, so how many DPS, so how many Montenegrins, how many Serbs, where anyone will be, in many countries, and we don't have ambassadors, unfortunately, for us as a country, as a state union of Serbia-Montenegro, is more likely to occupy where embassies and in which country, rather than that we have already formed teams that will lobby and work diplomatic roads on Kosovo and Metohija, as a matter of improvement for the Serbian people and for Serbian life. Whoever would have to represent the Serbian people in diplomatic circles we unfortunately don't have him, Serbia is a state that has no president, who has a self-proclaimed self-proclaimed official, something that doesn't recognise any constitution, no law, absolutely against the law. And what's going on? The president of Serbia, who represents himself as acting as a diplomat, is sitting in his office as George Soros, and George Soros said in Pristina the day before that that Kosovo must be independent, etc., and that Serbian president sits with George Soros the next day, there is no statement that he disagrees with such a policy, etc. Don't take me for harm, just facts, I don't have any political ambitions, promotions of that, just help for what's not good, maybe out of ignorance, because someone who enters as an MP in 160 and somewhere, maybe so much capacity has and thinks so, didn't have good advisors, etc. For example, we won't forget Zivkovic and the government, I'll mention you a little bit, I think it would help you, because I'm just trying because of that, we've been giving a few examples of how the government has to work better. Normally, I'm not looking, I'm not against the Serbian army and the police, I know what it says, but I won't sell the fog and I won't say return the army and the police, because I know what's real and what's not. That's why it's realistic for the Minister of Education to respect the school boards that are formed down there, sign the appointments of directors, solutions to directors, very slowly it goes, quite sloppyly, check it with the service, quite slowly and badly going. Then, we don't create a problem with child accessories, the children have already walked and they haven't received a parental allowance, they're nine, ten, maybe twelve months late, and maybe 12 months with the payment of parental supplements, and they're not defending us from UNMIK to respect the Financial Support Act for families with children. We had an example when a lady who presented herself as the assistant minister of this actor, Lecic, came to the meeting of the Committee on Kosovo and Metohija, I don't know what she's an assistant for, and she says, to be honest with you like this, stupidity - the Coordination Centre was created by the decision of our government and UNMIK and we have no jurisdiction over culture and information. Please, when you hear it from a civil servant who's not at such a low level, you're a little discouraged. Who defends the Ministry of Culture to create a Serbian exhibition downstairs, to print a Serbian book, a performance, except when the minister comes and keeps the Five-Star Container in Zvecan and normally takes a fee, not for free, but for the fee. It's a bad example, what we didn't have to do, which isn't good, whether we agreed or disagreed with me, and surely you will, it's nausea about a member of the Radio-Diffusion Council from Kosovo. That wasn't good, let's just say it was sloppy and stupid, it's not something we're getting along with. In the end, just that, after that, as the declaration recorded the state, so it proposed and requested, it would be good if we could send a signal from here to encourage the people a little bit and say, there are some shifts, there's movement, there's something going on, there's going to be something, etc. It'd be good, but we have to be realistic about all that. In all of this, we can't get out of here from either this pay phone or at various myths, protests and other political points, but simply on this very difficult, painful issue we have to encourage the people and see if it can be helped. I say once again, we won't be able to pull some revolutionary big moves out of here, but that help consists of daily improvements in the quality of life. So, in the presence of people on the ground who can assist in various resolutions, areas, etc., then, I hope that these coordinators, those who were appointed yesterday, will live up to their constant co-operation on these issues from those competences where the state of Serbia has jurisdiction. So one step at a time, and there's a few dice and it can't be good, it can't be ideal, but it can be better. That's how much I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-08-27-0.u33276	Here's a word from the Prime Minister, Mr. Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-08-27-0.u33277	I thought it would be a good idea for me to give some answers to some of the questions that were raised in the afternoon debate. First, I must say that my opinion and my impression that for Serbia and Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija there is a chance. If I separate some individual discussions and separate from some other discussions that already folklore part of the transfer, personal transfer and insult of some people, I think we are on the way to this parliament, when it comes to Kosovo and Metohija, bring a joint declaration, a common position, and that is what can be the greatest encouragement to Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija. The question is, what was done from 2000 to today? There are a whole series of individual measures, and this is Mr. Covic himself cited the help in the houses, in the food, in everything the Coordination Centre is in charge of, but I think it is also important, and from 2000 to today, it is that Serbia is now in a better position than Albanians from Kosovo. I think it's just as hard for us to disagree on. Unfortunately, the awareness among Albanian extremists, terrorists that their star is dark, and that there is a chance for Serbia and Serbs again, that this is also a cause for the exposition of these acts of terrorism. Is it possible to change Resolution 1244, someone mentioned it as Mr Tadic's proposal, the defence minister. I didn't hear Mr. Tadic say that, and I doubt he could say something like that, because I agree that changing Resolution 1244 would be impossible first, and if possible, it would be bad for our interests. It was also said that someone from DOS was talking about the division of Kosovo and Metohija. First, it is not the subject of Kosovo and Metohija's status, nor is it the subject of this declaration or this session, nor is it a subject to be discussed quickly. We will not agree to this subject until what is written in Resolution 1244 is implemented and this is not the subject today. Whoever mentioned it, I heard some experts offer such a proposal, but I haven't heard from anyone from DOS. If someone from DOS said so, then it is his personal position and DOS, or the Serbian government, that is not behind it. You mentioned General Lazarevic and The Hague. I responsibly argue that no information has come to the Serbian government that Mr Lazarevic has been indicted before The Hague tribunal. If that were the case, you'd get information about it, you and the whole Serbian public. So, according to the Serbian government, by today, on August 27th, Mr General Lazarevic was not charged with the UN tribunal and not to discuss the issue further. The question could have been done more for these four years or better to say less than three years; I think there could have been one part where we failed. Not as a position or opposition, power or opposition, but a segment that could have been better exploited, which would have yielded good results practically on the ground, but would have brought back to the minds of the citizens of Serbia the problem of Kosovo and Metohija, which, unfortunately, slowly in one part of the population, leaves out of that consciousness, which is connecting our local state with local self-governments or enclaves in Kosovo and Metohija. Normally, I think of Serbians and I think it would be a good sequel to what Serbia can do for Kosovo and Metohija, for Serbs and other non-Albanians in that territory. Since there are several executive committees or presidents of the assembly of major cities in Serbia here, I call on them to agree today on which city will assume responsibility and assistance, co-operation, any kind of exchange, cultural and economic, with a single enclave from Kosovo. Unfortunately, we have fewer enclaves in Kosovo than we have large cities in Serbia so that two cities can take responsibility, one part responsibility for one enclave. There was a dilemma and a vow not to enter into negotiations. No one mentioned negotiations, not in public appearances, not in any communication, not in this declaration. So we're not talking about any negotiations. Negotiations are something that comes when the final status story starts, and that story won't start anytime soon. The return of the army and the police; I think it's appropriate for those who said they'd withdraw such demagogue stories. First of all, you know that it's impossible, that it's not up to us, and if we decide to bring back the army and the police ourselves, we'll have a fight with the whole world. We had such a conflict in 1999. As far as I'm concerned, as far as the Serbian government is concerned, that's enough. We've had enough of that kind of victory. We will respect Resolution 1244 in all its segments, those we like and those we don't like. That's a question for the military and for the police. Will he ever come back? Yes, we will not give up on that, but it will not be a solution to the survival and return of Serbs to Kosovo and Metohija, as there was no solution for the survival of Serbs when several tens of thousands of police and soldiers were on the territory. After that, after their stay there, 250,000 Serbs were relocated. As for the transfer on the matter of the session being called earlier, immediately after the tragic event in Gorazdevec, I don't see what the Serbian Parliament could do more at that moment than what the government did. Was the mandate of our security council representatives enough? It was enough, and the Serbian Constitution says that the government's policy is run by the state, so there are no dilemmas on that side. To be honest, one of those who now spoke really wanted an extraordinary session of the Assembly could have called her. 84 signatures are enough for that. Unfortunately, I know that my government has no support for the rest of the parliament, so 160 and something, and therefore, those who represent themselves in the opposition were able to collect 84 signatures and call an extraordinary session of parliament for the events in Gorazdevec. But I think this session is enough and a good place to condemn what happened then, that the measures were taken and that objectively none of you can say that those measures were maximum of what could have been done. Did the Security Council give a different assessment of events in Kosovo and Metohija? Yes, it is. Is that strong enough? No, it's not. For the first time, terrorism has been mentioned in Kosovo and Metohija, Albanian terrorism in Kosovo and Metohija. They did not adopt it as a common position, but most of those who spoke at the session mentioned Albanian terrorism as evil in Kosovo and Metohija. Many wondered whether the whole mission should be declared unsuccessful and everyone asked that UNMIK on the spot must show, along with KFOR, much greater determination in implementing what it reads in Resolution 1244. It was an observation that we have dismantled Serbian structures and institutions in Kosovo and Metohija. There have been remarks that this applies to health care and education. That's not true. All that Resolution 1244 allows today is present from Serbia and Belgrade in Kosovo and Metohija. The only question is whether people who are down there are doing it right and whether people who are sitting in my government are doing it right. It's always an open question and we can always talk about it. I call on all of you as MPs, you have the right to ask about this every day, whether a ministry or me is being implemented, as outlined in the documents adopted by this assembly or adopted by the Serbian Government. Generally, I think what's done is good, but I'm sure it can be better. The question is what our diplomacy can do. I agree that diplomacy has not played the role it must play in these situations so last Saturday, a meeting of the Prime Minister of Montenegro and Serbia and Mr Covic, the head of the Co-ordination Centre, was held with the minister of defence, with the minister of economic ties with abroad, with the foreign minister. That's right, our policy is instead of the offensive army and the police offensive diplomacy. With this first offensive, we checked in a few years ago, and we didn't get through well. I would not go back to that offensive, but it is true that we have never tried a serious diplomatic offensive, and that is why the meeting was held, and that is why ambassadors will receive by the end of the month, or perhaps some day long enough ammunition for this offensive, enough clear evidence, in parallel to an analysis, systematised evidence that fighters for the freedom of the Kosovo people or Kosovo are not only that or not at all, but the heads of the mafia associations are the bosses who are connected with all the mafia ties between Asia and northern Europe. The question for children's supplements is a legitimate question. It's true that there was no payment for a few months, six or seven, and it's possible that a child walked before he got his first child's allowance. The question was, how to systematicize these data because there was no more parent service in those municipalities. Yesterday I was informed that the payment started, that it was paid on the pile all cumulatively, everything that was missed, and that's the same thing we can check out tomorrow. School boards; I don't think there's any dilemma there that the school boards have been verified in this way that came from Kosovo and Metohija. I don't think it's really the topic of today's session, but if it's a transfer to the Serbian government, as you know, better than we do from the government, the Broadcasting Council is your theme, and especially about a member from Kosovo and Metohija, because he is not a proposal from the government, but from those you chose as members of the Council. The question, is there a shift, can we give Serbs from Kosovo a little enthusiasm, a bit of hope to change something. From what I wear as my impressions of a visit to Brussels a month and a half ago, from a visit to the United States a month ago, from what Mr. Covic's performance in the Security Council and everything that can be measured as a little shift in diplomacy, in political views, I think we can have hope, but that hope is not enough to solve the Kosovo problem and guarantee Serbs from that territory that they will have a bright future. Hope is the chance we have to take. This shift of the world's slaughter policy a little bit towards us, it's been on the other side for a long time, it's just the beginning of the process and the good part of getting that slaughterhouse back to its starting position, the middle or turning towards it is the job that we have to do. Just as we must do everything to enter the European Union, so we must do the most to resolve the Kosovo and Metohija issue. In addition to what is the obligation of the international community, which is mentioned in speeches today and in the declaration itself, we must show that we are serious people who are seriously concerned about something that is, firstly, part of our territory and that we care about our citizens, any religion and any nation and to protect both national and state interests in that territory. That's what we'll do, I repeat, if everyone in their part of the job gets to the maximum. Serbia's government is ready to make the most of the work.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-08-27-0.u33278	I thank the Prime Minister. I'm setting a break to 15 hours and 10 minutes. [[After break - 15,35]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, please insert identification cards into your MPs in order to determine the quorum. I find that the application of the electronic system has established that we have a quorum for work and that we can continue the debate, i.e. a single search of the Kosovo and Metohija Declaration proposal. The word has a National MP, Zarko Obradovic, the SPS parliamentary group, and then a National MP, Zaharija Trnavcevic, the DOS parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-08-27-0.u33280	Dear fellow MPs, respected presidency, have no government representatives, so I cannot even mention them, the SPS believes that the declaration on Kosovo that we are discussing today is far below what is happening in Kosovo and Metohija with its content and far below what is Serbia's state and national interests when it comes to Kosovo and Metohija. The government of the Republic of Serbia, here is Mr. Prime Minister, when Kosovo and Metohija have not made a move in the past two and a half years, and I must say that the situation is even worse. In addition to the exiled and exiled Serbs, Montenegrins, Roma and Goranes after 1999, and the arrival of UNMIK and KFOR, thousands of people moved out because they realised that the Serbian government had made a clear political programme and the concept of resolving this difficult problem. The proposed declaration represents a weak document, without power, a document of impotence, and I must say ignorance. A document which was not allowed to specify and assess the impact of the international community in KFOR and UNMIK, to estimate that 250,000 people were expelled, expelled, that tens of thousands of houses burned and destroyed monasteries and churches, cultural and historical monuments of Serbs, that UNMIK and KFOR have double arches: one for Serbs -- nothing can be done for them; and others for Albanians -- anything is possible for them. The West, the international community, when it comes to Kosovo and Metohija, has not changed anything compared to its policy since 1999. This also shows that the aggression against the SRJ was not in the role of protecting the Albanian minority, nor the alleged violation of human rights, because now that UNMIK and KFOR are there, these human rights are not only being violated but also being carried out by the ethnic cleansing of Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija. The West policy had and is aimed at exempting Kosovo and Metohija from Serbia's legal and practical competences and for Kosovo and Metohija to be in the role of the interests of major forces. Now a few words about stereotypes. The Prime Minister mentioned an interesting topic: we need to break stereotypes. I must say that I absolutely agree with that, but just by the Prime Minister, Mr. Zivkovic, as well as Mr. Covic, Deputy Prime Minister, I was, as others, in a situation to hear two classical stereotypes spoken on their part. There were words that four years ago we led the offensive and that similar offensives would no longer lead. Four years ago, Mr. Zivkovic, we did not wage an offensive but a defensive war, because we were exposed to the aggression of 19 NATO countries and we fought against terrorism. I hope it's a language mistake, because I don't think you can be someone who's against the defense war, let alone the fight against terrorism. What happened then, I don't want much. Henry Kissinger in his book "Is America Need Foreign Policy", Henry Kissinger, who is the creator of American foreign policy, on page 303, and otherwise this book was published in 2002, says - Albanians were not fighting for autonomy but for independence and certainly not to remain under Yugoslav size. They confirmed this attitude when ethnically cleaned over 200,000 Serbs from NATO-sponsored territory. Today, a statement by a German diplomat, a member of the OSCE, said that the systematic, mass banishment of Albanians began when NATO launched an air campaign, that events in Račka were made up and that the Racak case created a picture of Serbs as monsters and set guidelines for war. No one can help us if we don't help ourselves and that's why we can't let the Deputy Prime Minister say that one humanitarian disaster has replaced the other, because these humanitarian disasters have never been. Scientific work, data from the Red Cross say there was no human disaster. It is mentioned 30, 40, 50, 70 and 100 thousand Albanians who have left Kosovo and Metohija, but, please, 700, 800 thousand, so these are lies that have been invented from the West, which we have contributed to. And, one more thing, when it comes to stereotypes, one of the colleagues today mentioned the Helsinki Committee on Human Rights, rightly, how they found an explanation for what happened in Gorazdevec. I found a document in which the same Helsinki Human Rights Committee in 2000 justified Albanian terrorism in 1998 and 1999, justifying terrorism. And here I say again -- stereotypes are real power, stereotypes are real opposition, stereotypes are real international community. The government does what it does, opposition to what it says, and the international community is politicizing both of them to use it for its own purposes. It should not be forgotten that even then by our opposition, unfortunately, there were words about so-called. The democratic issue when it comes to Kosovo and Metohija, on a minority issue, on the matter of respect for human rights, and you saw what it looks like. I'd also like to be in a position to believe what Mr. Zivkovic said some new winds are blowing. But it's nothing for now. And we have to say it. After visiting Brussels, after visiting Washington, we had a murder in Gorazdevec, we had a Security Council session and terrorism was not condemned. There's no movement, and in this way, there's definitely not going to be any movement. The document, the declaration we are discussing, has not called the international community for what it has not done in the past four years, which is the implementation of Resolution 1244. We remembered today what the obligation of this international community is. There's a lot, a lot of things, but it's the main thing -- security, security, security. And how to talk about the security of people, how to talk about life in general, how to talk about the security environment, how to say anything positive when we get official information from our Ministry of the Interior, which some others have quoted, and I will allow that from 10 June 1999 to 9 August this year, Albanian terrorists carried out 6,535 attacks, in which 1,201 people were killed and 1,328 injured, and, please, KFOR and UNMIK did not charge any of them, even if I say pro-form, with charges. We always have - the perpetrator unknown. So there won't be Serbs killing themselves, rather there will be violence and terror under the auspices of the West. Otherwise, the West, when it comes to Kosovo and Metohija, has its own special intentions. That's what everybody sees. The government of the Republic of Serbia should also see that. The forces under the auspices of the United Nations have become sponsors of terrorism, crime, lawlessness, terror, drug trafficking, and ethnic cleansing of all non-Albanians is the worst. The West has been in Kosovo and Metohija for four years an absolute master of everything, no one stands in his way. There's no improvement in the situation. On the contrary, everything is worse and worse. The West keeps telling its story, talking about general things, calling for some principles, establishing alleged standards, expressing concern, making personal changes in military and civil structures. Maybe you don't know enough - seven military commanders have changed and three civilian administrators, this is the fourth, and they're all doing the same. It is the establishment of a legal, institutional and other basis for Kosovo's independent functioning and Metohija as an independent legal and political entity, whether it will formally gain independence or enjoy independence without it. Of course, independence established by NATO's United Nations occupation. Why isn't this information in the declaration? Because they also show the impotence of the Government of the Republic of Serbia that it has failed to do anything on its own, and that the international community, which, unfortunately, listens so much, remains blind and deaf to what is happening in Kosovo and Metohija, because it is running its own policy, so this declaration is without concrete content, without ideas, full of phrases and general places, incomplete, conceptually and politically unspoken, without practical tightening, which is not surprising. We had a situation where the government kept this issue of Kosovo and Metohija aside, that there was not much to hear, that there was not much to talk about, only when, unfortunately, something tragic happened. The media will keep you quiet about what's going on in Cosmet, except when the government has something to say. Just the government, the other one. Only DOS, not the opposition. That's why they formed the political coalition "Return", with their co-workers. There is no place for others, neither for the socialists, nor for the radicals, nor for the others there are in Cosmet and which are politically founded there. They're not in political structures. The government actually shouldn't have called things a real name. Remember, in 2000, the term "terrorists" began to appear, to be used only after the destruction of the shopping center in America. Until then, terrorism was shyly mentioned, not to be spoken. I must say that DOS did not allow some document on Cosmet to be brought to the Serbian Parliament. After 2000, we had one resolution and one declaration. DOS himself did not want to talk about Cosmet, and the proposals from other parliamentary groups did not want to be included in the agenda. He voted in May against the SPS declaration being included in the agenda of this assembly. SPS MPs and SPS want to talk about Cosmet before and now and in the future. But we had a situation that the DOS didn't want it. Why, he's the only one who knows. Surely because of what is happening in Cosmet, but also because of what was contained in the 2000 Assembly documents, which was the government's obligation and was not fulfilled. Nor did she ask UNMIK and KFOR to do so. The things that were part of those declarations weren't contained in this one. The question can be asked why the government has divided Serbs, Montenegrins, Roma and others in Cosmet on a political basis. Why did she invite one to the election and the other not, why are the Western demands so blindly followed? The problem is when things are listed by a real name. Why the January 2001 DOS obeyed the Western Council and the prison's release of terrorists. We didn't hear a rational explanation. Now some of them are performing these same terrorist actions. Did the Assembly say that elections should not be made until the conditions of Resolution 1244 have been met? The government made a decision three days before the elections and urged the coalition "Back" to go to the polls and thus gave the institutions legitimacy in Cosmet. The declaration is made without consensus, because DOS will. If he wanted a real consensus, then he'd invite the parties to talk, to make a document before he saw the light of day, not later. If he wanted it, then okay, DOS is the author of this document. Then it's hypocritical to talk about the knsensus of Cosmet. I must remind myself that in 2000, the SPS accepted the invitation and its representative, Mr. Zoran Angelkovic, participated in the work of the Coordination Centre, with the very intention of showing this desire for consensus on a significant issue. When we saw that there was no consensus, especially working together, we left work in the center. The government then made a decision to form a specific political option and withdrew its political moves. There's a lot of things that should be in the declaration that aren't there, and there are things that there are, and they shouldn't belong there. For example, as part of The Hague Court. I don't know what that means. The government is calling for co-operation with The Hague. It would be better to call Carla del Ponte, as all those who have been invited so far have been called by Carla del Ponte and are Serbs. Several have been charged with Kosovo. It is true that the military minister said a pre-crisis procedure is being conducted in The Hague and that this is the reason Lazarevic's shift, that it is not something else. If that's true, and the procedure can say that someone is guilty and not guilty, then it's even more embarrassing that a man has been replaced. Finally, in order not to be critical, the government of the Republic of Serbia should show greater determination and determination in relation to the issues of Cosmeta and that in other ways, apart from adopting such sterile declarations, it reacts. First, the government should issue a white book on all the crimes that have taken place in Cosmet since UNMIK and KFOR arrived in 1999, or to complete the book issued by the Peace and Tolerance Centre, which you will receive here at the entrance today. The books stay, we pass, someone else waits for it, and on that basis, it draws conclusions. Secondly, to issue a white book on events in the space of Cosmeta during the J.J. and J.J. century, because this is not a question of one party, one policy, or one government or individual, this is a centuries-old question, so to see how this is a question in the historical dimension. Thirdly, to scientifically disprove documents from Tirana, Pristina, abroad that talk about a major Albanian project. Fourth, to keep Serbia's public informed of the developments in Cosmet, not to keep things quiet. Fifth, to form a special ministry and show a relationship to the issue. Great Britain has appointed the Secretary of State to question certain territories. We can form a ministry, too, if we want to show a certain relationship. The sixth, to stage peaceful protests against what is happening in Cosmet, as is done in Spain when ETA performs a terrorist act and so on. Seven, to make a decision on the return of the army. Let's make a decision, so let the Security Council tell us he can't. Let the military general say he can't and why he can't. Let him inform us, and then we'll inform the public why he can't. Eighth, to keep insisting on implementing Security Council Resolution 1244 and other international institutions and organisations. Nine, to be clear, we will not give up Cosmeta at any cost. May this be done by the West, both the Albanians and all those who secretly call on us to give up Cosmeta. Let them take care, and we'll see. The tenth, to help materially more than ever to avoid the face of exile. There's a lot more to say about Cosmet. Most importantly, a consensus must be reached on this issue, but a real one. If so, then the opposition must be called, as did previous years, of course the opposition who is and who wants it, in order to reach an agreement on state and national interests and on Cosmet. And not like this, the consensus within DOS and DOS alone, it's not and can't be a solution or a guideline to improve the situation in Cosmet. That is why this declaration does not have the content and weight it should have, and therefore MPs cannot objectively accept such a declaration.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-08-27-0.u33281	He has the floor of MP Dragan Markovic, president of the Serb Unity Party's parliamentary group, uses the right to ten minutes, another announcement.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-08-27-0.u33282	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Prime Minister, Mr Vice President, has been asked by the Serbian Unity Party at least 50 times over the past two years to discuss problems in this assembly in Cosmet. In four years, more than 800 Serbs have been killed and kidnapped by KFOR and UNMIK. And a few days ago, children were killed. I still have to say he had the DOS mercy on the agenda. But I don't know who we're sending this declaration to. It does not stand for whom it will be directed, whether to the Security Council, whether to KFOR or UNMIK. Who should we ask for an answer whether our declaration will be accepted or not? The Serbian Unity Party is for us to fight diplomatically, peacefully to solve all the problems in Cosmet. However, there is obviously no diplomacy in Serbia, said Prime Minister Mr. Zivkovic. Until eight months ago, we didn't have an ambassador to the United States, ladies and gentlemen, in a country where everything and everything is decided. How can we now say that America had information about what was happening to the Serb people in Cosmet, and that no one was responsible for poor diplomacy, which has been going on lately. Citizens of Serbia, and we from the Serbian Unity Party, began to fear when individual representatives of the government and ministers went to a country. At first, we were looking forward to bringing in some contracts to buy our products, to export cars from the flag to the United States, Germany, Austria. But as time went by, it got worse and worse. Any return from the government or ministers meant bringing a list of people to The Hague or a list of factories that were interesting to these foreigners, such as well-being tobacco factories in Nis and Vranj, which had never done business with the loss, cements, etc. As a businessman, I ask the question why sell something that is profitable and has a market? A small number of factories in Serbia have a market in Serbia, because Serbia is small, or Serbia-Montenegro, and we now want to sell it -- these factories have been sold. Ladies and gentlemen, we're not going to say it's this one or that one. We didn't do anything, and we could, for the Serbs in Serbia, as exiled persons from Kosovo and Metohija. Those Serbs were kicked out of collective centres, some a few months ago, and some a few days ago. Over 10,000 Serbs no longer live in collective centres. Assistance for Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija has been abolished, for persons 18 to 65 years of age. At least we didn't need an international community for that. That's what our government could provide for and help these people. The Prime Minister, Mr. Zivkovic, says Serbs are now much better off in Cosmet than Albanians. That's what we should ask the Serbs from Cosmet. Mr. Marko Jaksic, who lives in Cosmet, as well as another Member of Parliament, spoke about it and they know very well how Serbs live in Cosmet. We cannot say that Serbs are better off than Albanians in Cosmet. The Serbian Unity Party believes that the Serbian government should take care of and help Serbs living here in Serbia. We also have a problem with the minister's behaviour, Mr Tadic. The moment Serbia is threatened, when children are killed in Cosmet, he tells our hero Lazarevic that he heard that he is on a list or that he is suspected of committing war crimes in Kosovo and Metohija. Does a general dare not defend his country when his country is attacked? We attack our generals. It's okay about the shift of individual generals, but now that we're putting on a list of folk heroes, who have been recognised by Serbs living in Cosmet and Serbs living in Serbia, I don't know what we're doing. Do you even know what you're doing? A few months ago, we all know that, she was sentenced to The Hague by Biljana Plavsic. We know Biljana Plavsic was a representative of the Serb people in Republika Srpska. On the other hand, there is a lawsuit for war damage to Bosnia and Herzegovina. What can Serbs expect rather than that the day will come when they will have to pay for this war damage? We of the Serbian Unity Party are afraid, as are the citizens of Serbia, that this will happen with Serbs. I'm asking the Prime Minister if he heard from an Albanian saying that an Albanian, or Shiptar, terrorist, committed a war crime. And they're terrorists, they did ethnic cleansing, not the Serbian people? Who had an ethnic cleansing experience? Ethnic cleansing was experienced by Serbs. How many Serbs returned to Kosovo and Metohija, and how many Albanians came to Kosovo and Metohija from Albania, and in Kosovo and Metohija never lived? We now say that our officers did ethnic cleansing, genocide, i.e. We confirm what we've been bombed for. We resent Mr. Tadic, we hope he won't do it anymore, because I don't think it's his responsibility, what he said. The Serbian Unity Party also believes the new Security Council representative, Mr Holkeri, will be as previous as Kouchner, Hekerup, Steiner. That's how we wasted our time, and when we said, just to get Jelicin out and it'll be much better for the Serbs and the Serbian people, the Russians will help Serbia. Putin's here. Nothing was better for Serbia. We were just talking about Clinton leaving, and it would be a much better collaboration with America. Clinton's gone, and Bush is here, so much worse. We talked about -- just to leave Cole, and then Steiner came and Serbia was much worse. Serbs from Cosmeta don't have time to wait for those representatives, because they are implementing the Security Council's general policy, however it may be, at least as far as Kosovo and Metohija are concerned. Ladies and gentlemen, because of this situation in Kosovo and Metohija and in southern Serbia, the economy in Serbia is stopping. The budget can't be filled with production, sales taxes, profit taxes, but filled with sold factories. We sold everything in Serbia. Currently, there are millions of people out of work in Serbia, 250,000 people working daily and not receiving salaries, over 150,000 agricultural pensioners have not received pensions in the past 17 months. This is a topic that is related to the problem of war in southern Serbia and Kosovo and Metohija. Because of such a catastrophic situation in Kosovo, the economy has stopped. Less production now, in July this year, than it was last year. I would not now talk about the situation of agricultural producers, what the price of agricultural products is, because it should be one of the points of the agenda of the assembly session. We resent government representatives for suggesting that we accept the information of Shipara, which says they stole wood, and then shoot our army so they don't get caught stealing wood. Ladies and gentlemen, it's pure demagogy. What kind of trees are these? The Albanians are rich. They don't steal wood. They came to southern Serbia to scout their positions. Three times that information -- information about the theft of wood, both KFOR and UNMIK, and we accept it as true. The Security Council supports Albanians. You must understand that, too, from DOS. What do the citizens of Serbia hold against you? In the 2000 election campaign, you promised to solve the problem in Kosovo and Metohija, that your friendship with the Security Council would bring better tomorrow to citizens in Kosovo and Metohija, Serbia-Montenegro. But what happened? Kosovo is now much further than before Serbia, and Montenegro is also. The Constitutional Charter that obliges Serbia and the Serbian people to support the common state was adopted. When we look and see what is done in Serbia, we see that there is no way out. We're not saying you're not trying, but there's no result of your efforts, Mr. Zivkovic. The Serbian Unity Party is proposing that you call the election, so let some new, some other people try to do something about it. It also bothers us that people's will is often mentioned. There are also some who are small souls, which you bought, including two MPs from the Serbian Unity Party, and you represent it as a people's will. It's not the people's will. The national will is not that the government with some parties, which have not received a number of votes, as a party that is today, is being negotiated.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-08-27-0.u33283	I'm warning you, over-the-counter time allowed for discussion.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-08-27-0.u33284	To understand that Albanians have the support of the international community, an obvious example of Macedonia needs to be considered. Macedonians had no support, though they gave both the airport and the entire NATO base. Who had their support? They were supported by Albanians, and the biggest damage was suffered by Serbs and Macedonians living in Macedonia. There's no need to say it's this one or that one. We can say they're incompetent people who used to work, but they're also working now, because now there's no certain result. We suggest that you call the elections, that citizens go to elections and choose the people who have done something in life, that there are no more crisis headquarters, that there are no more directors who don't give a program, in which it would be said that something will be done in 60 or 90 days, so that workers can switch directors if they don't meet it. It's not there. Crisis headquarters have introduced the directors into the factories. The director didn't promise anything. That director's union can't be replaced. Slowly, but surely, it's collapsing. For your information, centre of Serbia, Pomorava County, cable factory, the worker has an average salary of 8,500 dinars with a warm meal, Mr. Prime Minister, and these days 1,600 people will lose their jobs. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the scene: "Yes, when they were stealing". You say when they were stealing, just let me, the time has come for the work report, who was stealing is in prison, give a report of the work, what you did and what DOS did in two and a half years. Nothing at all, Mr. Prime Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-08-27-0.u33285	The word has a folk MP, Zaharija Trnavcevic, the DOS parliamentary group - Serbia's Reform, and the next reported for the word, MP Petar Petrovic, the SSJ parliamentary group, gave up. Furthermore, MP Stevan G. Guduric, SNS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-08-27-0.u33286	Dear fellow Members of the People, Mr. President, Vice President, Madam President of the Assembly, has one saying that says "executed the gift of the measure". After that massacre of innocent children who refreshed themselves at the source of Bistrica, we came to the opportunity of the world and the public, above all to the Security Council, to say that she had exceeded her gift. One humanitarian disaster, according to them, was replaced by another humanitarian disaster. She first, I know it well, you know, and you all know it, she's provoked and directed to have a reason and cause to bomb this country and celebrate 45 or 50 years of existence. The disaster has been resolved and all Albanians are in their homes today and live as they have lived before. The second disaster began with KFOR's arrival in Kosovo, a lasting disaster and no one alive can predict what forms it will take. It is, as the President and Deputy Prime Minister said, a terror that is caused by fear. Please, is there a country in Africa, Asia, Europe, the United States where members of one nation go to armored transponders, whose children go to school or go to the market from Strpc to another city, Kosovo Mitrovica. It doesn't exist. Is there a country where exiled people can't come back and live their lives, which gives them the right to Resolution 1244? It doesn't exist. Not to list everything we know and what was said here. I suggest that in this declaration in Chapter two, after the first position, a passage will come in which all these indicators will be indicated, because here it is said that the resolution is not properly applied. The evidence of this, may be a new indent, is 1,600 kidnapped and killed, the missing residents of Kosovo of non-Albanian ethnicity, destroyed so many blasphemy, churches and historical monuments, which speaks of unheard vandalism. Furthermore, only 2% of the exiled population in Kosovo returned, while all Albanians who fled in 1999 returned to their hearths, to their homes and live their normal lives. These items are a heavy indictment for the United Nations, I dare say, which are, by their own favored attitude, even the view of the dictionaries, when they write documents, they refrain from calling things the right name, that people who do this say they are terrorists, and not that they are unknown perpetrators, that they are incidents etc. It is this attitude that encourages Albanians to prevent the return of Serbs and make Kosovo and Metohija an area in which they will exclusively live. This declaration is not at all, is not adopted and will not be published with some fatal delay. It should, in my opinion, be delivered to the Secretary-General of the United Nations, and I dare suggest that not our ambassador to the United Nations do so, but that the document be handed down by a National Assembly delegation, undermining the importance of this document, the seriousness of the situation that can no longer be endured. Secondly, this document, as it is said, is intended for the urbs of et orbis, cities and the world, such as once the papal messages are sent, to be called a serious press conference, for the public at a high level, where they will be presented and explained to the public, interpreted these views as the ultimate range of our patience and patience. Here during today's debate, it was said that since the October 6th change, the situation in Kosovo has begun to deteriorate. People who say that, I'd remind them of a saying that says, "what one crazy person buys, ten smart people can't sell." Like other MPs of the Democratic Party, I was in October 1998, and I saw the view of the Chambers, Kijevo, I saw villages that were shot by tank grenades, empty villages, herds of buffalo without children, and usually there were ten times more children than buffalo there by rivers in the valleys, all of which were deserted and driven away; not driven away, it was the Albanians who told their countrymen to flee on the orders of their patrons to have an excuse to attack this country. Then, in fact, and before that, disastrously bad moves were made. Please, when the regime in Albania fell, when the Albanians started selling those warehouses, the then commander-in-chief of the defence council, that he only said - two divisions to own a border belt, that the bird could not fly over, to prevent the introduction of long pipes. By that time, Albanians were ordinary assassins, carbonists, with some guns in their pocket, and he let that weapon be delivered here, armed and become a relevant force and here, day and day, you heard the data, I don't know if it came from that time, 700,000 long pipes are in the hands of these Albanians and so on. Kosovo Protection Corps, etc. So, my dear friends, take care when you talk about the genesis of all this. And the previous regimes, in Joseph Broz Tito's time, led one policy. I told the peasants, the ignorant and the uninformed people what the national interest of Serbia and Serbs was, that is, the citizens of Serbia. It's not that we're complaining about our fate, that everyone is attacking us and that they're all against us. Our interest was and remains, that in this country everyone lives safely, securely and peacefully, because if there is peace and security for all, then there will be opportunities and space to think and talk in this country and to compete in the domain of production, rather than drilling into the chest about who is the bigger Serb. It would be good for all MPs to vote for this declaration, but to refrain from commenting and counseling, because they are the culprits of this situation that we are discussing today.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-08-27-0.u33287	The word has been made by MP Stevan Z. Guduric, a Socialist People's Party parliamentary group, and the next reported by MP Goran Cvetanovic, the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group. The people's letter of Natasa Milojevic, which has the advantage, also appeared in the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-08-27-0.u33288	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. President, Kosovo and Metohija is one of the most important issues of Serbia, I only understand that this assembly will discuss and discuss some more things that are equally important or slightly less important, so I expect that the government, together with Parliament Speaker, will allow Serbia to see what is said in this parliament. We understood that there was this transmission that you and the President of the Assembly assessed that this was important and told Mr. Churchenjak that he had not yet bought the television to determine for himself, because so far it was that he who paid and managed.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-08-27-0.u33289	Please return to the topic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-08-27-0.u33290	It's all about the subject, Mrs. Micic, since you've scheduled a television broadcast and I guess I have the right as a national MP to comment on it. Otherwise, when we talk about consensus here, which is certainly necessary for this issue, and as far as the Socialist People's Party is concerned, it won't be left this time. I think there's some other things we should talk about. Let's go back a little bit to some things, maybe some things would have looked different in this country if you, who were then an opposition, and now you're in a position, about some things with that authority, had a consensus. You, Mr. Covic, said yesterday that she lacked hair for the KLA to be a terrorist organization. If maybe we in this country had agreed before that, maybe before ANE, the KLA would have become a terrorist organization, so maybe some things would have looked different in this society. And that's what I'm saying, so remember when you're the opposition again, that it's not bad with a position sometimes you have about some important state issues consensus, because the state should be above all else and above any short party interest. For some things, Serbia should be ahead of all things, and for some other things we will compete, so whoever passes. So, we're going to support this, no matter what this looks like as a declaration or resolution we did in 2001, but if this is going to do to show that we can agree on some things and make it possible for some of the better negotiating position, so be it, but to teach us to try to have a state in front of some of the narrow party interests.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-08-27-0.u33291	The word has a folk MP, Natasa Milojevic, president of the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, and that is the first application for the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-08-27-0.u33292	Dear fellow Members of the Serbian Parliament and fellow Members of the "Return" Coalition, who today participate as our guests in the work of the Assembly, the Honorable Prime Minister and other members of the Government, today's topic, judging by all previous and possibly more sublime discussions and discussions in general, is a complex topic, not only in emotional but also in political terms, a difficult topic. Hard enough to try in what is our political instrument, in the text of the declaration, to sum up all possible visions and solutions, and in line with what has already been mentioned several times, Resolution 1244 and other acts concerning the resolution of the standards and status of Kosovo and Metohija, to solve one so large and as the prime minister has said, a question that has been following us over the centuries, not just in the past three years or over the past 10-15 years. Not to be maligned, I wanted to report to the Rules of Procedure earlier and say that this topic deserves at least a respect which, if not otherwise, will be manifested by the attention of MPs and the absence of marble and mutual comment, including the cheerleading atmosphere. I won't be maligned. I think that, regardless of the fact that we have been said a lot, and I particularly support the part of my colleague Trnavčević's discussion, we need to remind ourselves once again of some important things, important details, and this is about the relationship at the level of government in the emerging state and the state in the disappearance, how we can interpret and call the country in which we live, we have in Kosovo and Metohija practically three levels or three types of government. One of the resolutions 1244 is fully legitimate and that is conditionally the authority that is in the hands of the UN and the High Representative; the other is also legitimate and according to the people's will certified in the elections, the Kosovo-Methohic Authority; and the third is in accordance with the same Resolution and, of course, the current Constitution, the power which forms the legislative and executive power of the Republic of Serbia. All three levels should have one common interest, this common interest should be a civilization society in Kosovo and Metohija or a society that respects the basic parameters of civilization. The last act of terrorism is an act of violence, of course. He's not just grief for members of the families killed, he's grief because he's an anti-civilization act. How did all these authorities treat this act as an anti-civilization act? I hope that this power, the legislative assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as executive authority, will be at the level of its task and show sufficient responsibilities and something else, operational at last. After one resolution and two operating declarations in the direction of instrument adoption or implementation of mechanisms that will allow what we adopt here to be implemented. That is why it is necessary for the common interest of all three levels of government, which is the civilised society of Kosovo and Metohija, without violence and without terrorism, to be a common goal. Point 9 of the conclusion states that the competent authorities and institutions of the Republic of Serbia are obliged to carry out the operationalisation of standards and provide an appropriate mechanism for monitoring progress towards a certain level of standards and meeting agreed deadlines. This is the last thing I think is important. So far, regardless of the successes of all levels or efforts, better say and more precisely, all the levels that on behalf of the legislative, executive authorities of the Republic of Serbia acted and dealt with the issue of Kosovo and Metohija, meeting agreed deadlines did not exist primarily because of whether I should use the term, the sloppyness of representatives of international forces in Kosovo and Metohija. How else do you call the fact that the right under the nose of the authorities that are tasked with providing personal and any other security for Kosovo's inhabitants of Albanian and non-Laban nationalities is such a tragic murder, i.e. murder. What are these instruments that, together with UNMIK, the Council of Europe and other international organisations, the Government of the Republic of Serbia currently has and what are these instruments that we as the Assembly and as the National Representatives of the Assembly have? Do we recognize them? Are these instruments called political overplay and bickering or are they instruments called defining minimum and then optimal national interest when it comes to Kosovo and Metohija? Today I didn't recognize in everyone the willingness to define that interest. In my opinion, he stands above all in these basic words -- human rights, the fight against violence, the civilization of society in general. I would ask all of us, including the President of Parliament, why no one was invited to today's meeting, or the extraordinary session of the Assembly, and he was to be the new High Representative of UNMIK. He was supposed to be invited, he was supposed to be at this session, because it's our partner in solving these problems; the High Representative is our partner in solving these problems. If nothing else, he should participate, or attend, the debate on these problems. Furthermore, it would probably be a radical step, and not to say revolutionary, if we had invited other MEPs of the AP Kosovo Parliament and Metohija who are not only Serbian nationalities. I'm sure it would be radical, but it would be a very civilized act, which would be surprising for some here, too. What we didn't discuss, or mention, which I think is the key to the problem of Kosovo and Metohija. In their opening speech, both the Prime Minister and the Deputy Prime Minister said and mentioned who the leaders were, and not only the ANAs, but also all others under arms, militant and militarist groups operating both in the area of southern Serbia and Kosovo and Metohija and their only interest that unites them, mentioning that it is nothing but crime and that it is a terrible traffic of drugs, weapons, people and all kinds of high-profit goods, as they observe. Organized crime has found common interest in the Balkans and in Southeast Europe, governments or authorities at all three levels I mentioned at the beginning; organised crime in the Balkans has been able to agree, regardless of the linguistic, religious and territorial differences and we have an obligation together with international authorities, with a high representative, with UNMIK and KFOR in general, to fight organised crime. He is sponsoring terrorism, he is sponsoring terrorist and violent acts, such as those that took place two weeks ago. So organized crime is the enemy, and if we don't treat it the way only a responsible authority can, then we will adopt a declaration that is content, clear and binding from the beginning, but one of the main instruments will be overlooked, ignored or not used, which is inadmissible. Those who are observers and who, as international organisations, are obliged to provide what is called the fluid of a democratic and civilized society, the OSCE, the organisation of the European Union, the European Commission, etc., must understand that they must not be observers, only observers, because in that case they become very responsible and then very responsible accomplices. Are the standards before status? Yes, the standards before the status, but regardless of what I'm dealing with on this subject of the standard before the status, I've still not seen one act, unfortunately, of the representatives of the international community act that, but not an act concrete on the ground, see how these standards are established. Let me also be denied by Mr. Covic if that is not true, but I did not see it, and that does not mean that standards are not defined in the definition or in the documents. They are defined, but the instruments are missing. The terrorism, and that's where I'm going to end up, which for the first time in the work of the Security Council, I think, on August 18th appears as a word, as a term, on all continents is the same name, the same face, using the same method. He is in the Balkans, Kosovo and the Metohija of that name, that person and that method. We have to do at least two things: the first is to make all our efforts to make the international community realize that it is terrorism, however dissonant with some other messages from the international community; and secondly, that terrorism here today means terrorism everywhere in the region and everywhere in the environment and that if we support a global fight against terrorism, then it is normal to expect that this struggle on our soil is supported. Not only does he support it, but he recognizes it and participates in it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-08-27-0.u33293	The word has been issued by MP Goran Cvetanovic, the SRS parliamentary group, and the following is MP Dragan Lazic, the DSS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-08-27-0.u33294	Ladies and gentlemen of the finders, Kosovo and Metohija are the cornerstones of Serbian culture and civilization. In Kosovo and Metohija are monuments of history and culture from the time of the rise of the Serbian medieval state. In the 15th century, in Kosovo and Metohija, Shipari did not make up 10% of the population. Today, the average Shipage family has 6.6 children, and unlike the Serbian family, which has an average of 0.9 per family. For a positive birth rate, it is necessary, statistically, to have 2.1 children. With such a birthright, with a large migration from Albania, the Cypriots have become the majority population in Kosovo and Metohija. Unfortunately, that's how they headed south of Serbia. Only a few days ago, Shiptarka, born in Pristina and living in Pristina, gave birth to a Dredka hospital. I guess with one goal only, that the newborn has documentation later, will have a birth certificate in the column where the birthplace will be written by Leskovac. All the facts suggest that Kosovo and Metohija are Serbian historical and state law of Serbia and that Kosovo and Metohija are part of Serbia's national interest in our society and the interest of all Serbian citizens. I remind you that the Serbian Radical Party is the only political party that has opposed the Ahtisaari-Cernomidin Agreement in Parliament. Serbian Radical Party MPs pointed out what was happening in Republika Srpska, warned that the same is happening to the Serbian people in Kosovo and Metohija. Serbs living in Kosovo and Metohija know best who represents their interests, so they gave 70.88% of their votes to Prof. Vojislav Seselj in the latest elections for Serbian President. In Jablaničko, Pcinjska and Toplicko, that is, around the border with Kosovo and Metohija, Professor Vojislav Seselj received over 50% of the votes, which means that Serbian Radical Party MPs are the real representatives of the citizens of Kosovo and Metohija and the south of Serbia. After the signing of the Agreement, there begins an even greater loss of the Serb people in Kosovo and Metohija, mass murder, kidnapping, robbery, destruction of property and emigration. Renowned Canadian Professor Michel Kosudovski, who is otherwise the director of the International Centre for Globalisation Research, argues that the United Nations and the United States are funding terrorists in the Balkans. University of Barcelona professor Francisco Vega claims that the United States is responding to the creation of a great Albania. In a pre-election campaign, DOS pledged that problems in Kosovo and Metohija would be resolved immediately after changes in the regime in Serbia. Saying the problem was in the regime at the time, they amnested the Cypriot terrorists, as well as the international community, out of responsibility. The DOS continued to co-operate with the occupier, recognise the legitimacy of the occupation, allow the constitution of Kosovo, the president of Kosovo and the right of the current Kosovo occupation government to sign international contracts. Vojislav Kostunica and Democratic Party representatives, as well as the rest of the DOS, have released Flora Brovina from prison, freed the Cypriot criminals, and no Serb has been released, nor has anything been known about their fates. To the family of the arrested, captured and missing persons, the only thing left to write these books - let them not be forgotten. You are now putting all the negative consequences of DOS anti-patriot policy with great delay before the National Assembly to try to amnesty yourself from responsibility, but it is clear to all Serbian citizens that DOS is in power in Serbia and that DOS is responsible for this situation. DOS is counting on proven patriotism and support for Serbian radicals when it comes to defending national interests and preserving Serbia's sovereignty and integrity. Serbian radicals have shown it many times and proved it and proved it, but we are now afraid that this declaration will not remain, as it has so far, just a dead letter on paper. It remains for all Serbian citizens, especially citizens living in Kosovo and Metohija, faith and hope that Serbia will still have the strength and positive energy to achieve its vital national interests in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-08-27-0.u33295	The word is made by MP Dragan Lazic, the DSS parliamentary group, and then by MP Ljubisa Maravic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-08-27-0.u33296	Dear ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable Presidency, Mr. Prime Minister and Mr. Vice President, Kosovo and Metohija are a couple of excellent issues of the state of Serbia, not only in the previous period but also in the current and future. I listened carefully to Mr. Zivkovic's presentation, as well as Mr. Covic's before noon, and you, Mr. Covic, at one point said that you shouldn't, i.e. There's no need to deal with any history, and you know for a fact that this whole situation has deep historical roots. I haven't heard from the predecessors, MPs of this assembly, that anyone mentioned 125 years of the Prizren League. It may not mean anything to someone, someone may know what it is, but there are practically the foundations for the unification of the Albanian ethnic corps. There was practically the foundation of a future Albanian state, and everything that was done during that period of 125 years was practically in that spirit, beginning with Avdulj Frasieri, as the initiator and first man of the First Prizren League, and over the rest to this day, through King Lek, through the Communist nomenclature, through Ibrahim Rugova and Hashim Thaci to this day, this policy is practically being implemented. We've had a humanitarian disaster down there, at least it's said, but no one's talking about opening a new humanitarian disaster when it comes to Serbs. Someone said this position would be a clear and open Albanian issue, but no one is talking about the fact that opening an Albanian issue can practically open the Serbian issue. Because it can't simply, and here I fully agree with Mr. Covic, to find some possibility of how to resolve the issue of historical and ethnic rights, which is practically the work of Professor Krstic, who we know well, and that should be some kind of Lightmotive for everything that is being done. The Democratic Party of Serbia has held from day one that the Kosovo and Metohija problem should be resolved comprehensively, in no way particularly, by no principle of ethnicity, not according to the principle of territorial membership. Any particular solution, meaning any resolution by national principle, would cause new earthquakes, above all in Europe. Would Europe allow one such solution to be applied later, i.e. move in a way that addresses the Irish issue or the Catalan or the Baskian issues. Therefore, we must listen to the voice of Europe, the voice of all the official and significant institutions of Europe, in order to find a solution of our own. A few days ago, I had the opportunity to read a report in one of our renowned lists on the French province of Lorena, or Alsace, and it could be a kind of Lightmotive that would begin to solve the Kosovo problem. The province had a great accident, it went from German to French, and it is now a province that is practically in such a position as to be a truly mirror of something called the regionalisation of Europe, and ultimately the European Parliament's headquarters is in Strasbourg itself. When I say that the solution should be comprehensive, it will in any case, although it does not need to be prejudged now, be atypical, as President Kostunica said, because it is obvious that it will be atypical to the extent that it is Dayton and we have to count on one such assumption - what kind of solution it will be. We are for the autonomy of Serbs in terms of autonomy, high autonomy for Kosovo, as provided for in Resolution 1244, but to resolve it in a civilized way, to resolve it without war conflicts. We are witnessing terrorist actions in Kosovo and Metohija and in southern Serbia for at least two reasons. The first reason is, above all, the decision of the international community to transfer media interest to a completely different area. That obviously bothers the Albanians. They are no longer the focus of what is called a European and world political establishment and they are in every way trying to restore that media interest to Kosovo. The second part is what I mentioned earlier, which is 125 years of the Prizren League. You know, I was in Pristina when the 100th anniversary of the Prizren League was celebrated, and I know best what national hysteria was, not to say euphoria, the moment the centennial was to be celebrated. There was a visit from Tirana, many famous teachers from Tirana University were guests in Pristina, and the president of the Honorary Committee of the Prizren League's centennial was none other than Fadil Hoxha, then the SFRJ vice president. So, we ourselves, in our own sports words, gave ourselves auto goals, and then we wondered how it was possible to reflect today. It reflects and will reflect. What's our chance? I think at this point, for the first time in 60 years, the Serbian ethnic corpus, Serbian politics is getting by on time. It's the first time it's happened. So far, we've always been missing in time and we've always run off with some wrong moves. We're in position now. Maybe someone thinks they can get rid of it overnight. Unfortunately, he can't. Let's not have any illusions that the Kosovo problem will be solved overnight. Simply, our first ticket is to play patience, so time, and consistently implement Resolution 1244 from point to point. Unfortunately, in the 1,500 days since KFOR and UNMIK arrived in the area of Kosovo and Metohija, none of the key points of the resolution have been achieved and this really needs to be highlighted. When it comes to a multiethnic environment, unfortunately life, when it comes to, say, Serbs and Albanians, is such that they live next to each other, but turn their backs. When it comes to relations with other ethnic communities in Kosovo and Metohija, it should be said, without euphemism, that classical assimilation of other ethnic structures is on stage. Here, first of all, I mean Muslims or Bosniaks, as anyone wants to understand it, that's what I mean by Roma, that's what I mean by Gorenza. That's one principle that usually comes from the conclusion of the First Prizren League, and that's exactly what I'm saying - that it has to be strictly taken into account, that one people goes by the principle of one faith. That's what's very important, and what they allow in Europe, in these conditions, to mean in the 21st century, an egonational state is being created. In addition to the time factor, what I mentioned earlier should go from other people's experiences. I have mentioned here several times, when it comes to the Cyprus problem, it has been going on for 29 years, since 1974, and by chance the President of the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus was Rauf Denktash, and until today, it is the full 29-year president of the phantom republic. The problem can't be solved because the animosity is great, which is huge and why I say I expect that chance. Cyprus has recently applied for accession to the European Union and has been ordered and said to them - Cyprus can, but only unique. So, agree, the Turkish part of Cyprus can, but along with the rest of Cyprus, which is otherwise internationally-legally recognised, has its own chair in the United Nations. However, the Turkish community in Cyprus resists. There is a bigger problem with the fact that Turkey is being blackmailed. She is a member of the NATO Pact, but she is not the European Union. They are well told that they can plead to become a member of the European Union the moment they give up those territories in Cyprus, when they accept Cyprus as a whole. Then you can talk about joining the European Union. I made this parallel because I'm going to tie it to Cosmet. A high representative of the international community also told Podgorica and Pristina, in no case will you be admitted past Belgrade into the European Union or any structure of Europe. This starting point should be taken very seriously and indicatively. If Tirana doesn't give up Cosmet, it won't be accepted. Our policy needs to be two-way. It should be strictly taken care of how to further democratisation, regionalisation of Serbia by European and world standards. On the other hand, lead a moderate policy towards Kosovo and constantly impose this issue of common admission into Europe, because we are part of Europe and if we plead on it, then we must count on someone to be smart in Kosovo, Podgorica and we will be adopted together. I am an MP for the Serbia-Montenegro Community Assembly. Believe that there is no mention of Kosovo in Montenegro. If we adhere strictly to Resolution 1244, this debate was to be held in the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly, because Resolution 1244 explicitly says that Kosovo is an integral part of the federal state, at the time of the SR of Yugoslavia, and now in an international legal sense in the continuity of Serbia-Montenegro. It is the first place where talks should be held, which does not exclude the possibility of talks here in the Serbian Parliament as part of the federal state. But at no time did we get an initiative from any MP from the ruling structures of Montenegro, represented in Serbia-Montenegro's parliament, to raise the issue of Kosovo, as if Kosovo were absolutely not concerned. A political group in our parliament represents the thesis on independent Serbia. It's the legitimate right of the political party. However, there is one fear. Resolution 1244 explicitly states that Cosmet de jure becomes part of Serbia when a referendum is held in Montenegro and if Montenegro secedes from the common state. Then it passes under the authority of Serbia. And that should be taken into account, because it turns out that Montenegro has absolutely nothing to do with it, although one part of the ethnic Corps, especially from Metohija, is very important to Montenegro. And not to say historically, that part of Metohija was in Zetski Banovina at the time. I'm sorry that the SPS has separated. I expected today to find some Solomonian solution and make a joint decision, because it would mean a lot more psychologically. It wouldn't have had as much direct effect as it mattered to the world. In the end, I will tell the anecdote that took place in the Israeli Parliament, Knesset. In each parliament, there are angers between the authorities and the opposition, between the position and the opposition. It happens in 1967, bags are thrown in Knesset, they're shot, they're cursed. Then the chairman was Mrs. Golda Meir. She gets up, hammers her desk and says, "Ladies and gentlemen, shall we make love or war?" Since beauty was a weaker part of personality, they all jumped: no love, no war! That's how the April war began, and that's how Jerusalem was released in 1967. In the end, don't think that this is a war cry, as Mrs. Kolundzija said, this is just one initiative that we are really in such an emergency that we need to find a common language and a common umbrella, and I think it's Cosmet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-08-27-0.u33297	There is a word from MP Ljubisa Maravić, the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-08-27-0.u33298	Dear fellow MPs, Mr. President and Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, I regret to say that today our Assembly is discussing the situation in Cosmet, when it is too late for the beastly murdered children in Gorazdevec and all other Serbian victims since the arrival of UNMIK's mission to the southern Serbian province. The SPS MPs have long sought to hold a special thematic session of the Serbian Parliament dedicated to the acutely difficult situation in Cosmet. Unfortunately, our parliamentary group's official proposal has not been accepted. I would like to remind you that we have also repeatedly asked this speaker for answers to the question why the conclusions of the Kosovo Resolution, which we unanimously adopted in May 2001, followed by the adoption of Hekerup's constitutional framework. I can't argue, but I'm confident that the positive outcome of our Cosmet initiatives might prevent the escalation of criminal Shiptar Separatism. The question arises why killing innocent Serbian children is called in world contexts only by escalating violence. It is very interesting what the international community will say in yesterday's statement by representatives of the Albanian national unification Front, Albana Vjosa, who said that the so-called ANA will hit where Serbs will most hurt. Does this mean that the Shiparas will keep their promises to the international community on multiethnic Kosovo? We saw again what happened yesterday in Kamenica, Lebanon and Metohija. Just as we heard yesterday from the Cypriot leaders in a conversation with the new administrator and NATO's commanding southern wing that our debate in the Republika Srpska Assembly is in fact just another provocation, which will negatively affect them. Imagine how ironic that is. The more active position of our country must be repeatedly highlighted, as Serbia and the SR Yugoslavia have fulfilled everything provided for by Security Council Resolution 1244. And what about the commitments made by the international community under Security Council Resolution 1244? Would that lead to a much better security situation in Cosmet than the one we have today. As things stand, our citizens are in a difficult situation in Cosmet, which is what the figures best say. Lastly, by the time UNMIK arrived, 6,468 attacks, 1,173 people were killed and 1,300 were kidnapped in Cosmet. In my opinion, the key thing is that the international community, or UNMIK administration, failed to fulfil its obligations under Resolution 1244, did not disarm the so-called KLA and did not even exert strong pressure on those doing so, and above all on members of the so-called Kosovo Protection Corps, KLA or ANE. How is it possible that all perpetrators of crime are almost not aware that the arrested Albanians escape from the most protected base in the Balkans, from Bondsteel? Obviously, it suits someone, as well as that some are in favour of escalating the violence of ANA, which thus strengthens loyalty, financial and logistics support on the ground. It is clear to all now that the ANA is a mixture of terrorist-mafija gangs, that the ANI-based mafia, which will benefit from the most brutal actions to intimidate the work of the Serb people in Cosmet, in order to discourage the return policy, has expelled the remaining Serb population and to bring about a dream of Kosovo's independence. A dream they can only dream of. Previously on "Suddenly" unless it's known that the Separatist action strategy isn't since yesterday. She remained the same since the Prizren League, and only the culprits of the strategy changed. Imagine what irony that newly appointed or first-placed commander so-called. The Kosovo Protection Corps will be Agim Ceku, an officer of Ustasha Tudjman's army, who bloodied his hands in the Medak pocket and now continues his bloody beer in Kosovo and Metohija, and is under the protection of the United Nations. We can also mention the example of Hashim Ceku, a favorite Madlen Albright, the killer of Serb police officers from Glogovec, and he is also a favorite of certain western circles. What can surprise the citizens of Serbia, and certainly a good part of Christian Europe, is the persistent ignoring of the unsuspecting evidence of the close ties between the Cypriot terrorists and the criminal terrorist al-Qaeda. As far as I know, former but future al-Qaeda fighters have gained their first combat experience against our security forces in Kosovo and Metohija, and then called "mujahedins". One of UNMIK's representatives should answer the question of where they are and what they are doing in Cosmet, members of an ill-known "female group". How is it possible, in the presence of a large number of KFOR members, to deliver weapons from Bosnia and Albania to the territory of Kosovo and Metohija for members of so-called. "Anna"? Why is there a large number of cancerous diseases in the Cosmeta area, which has increased by about 200% compared to the pre-war period? What is found in Cosmet and causes these diseases and causes increased population mortality? Why is it that, under Resolution 1244 and international conventions, human rights, freedom of movement, of existence, of property and other rights recognised everywhere in the world are not respected? From what other than drugs, the Shipsters get money? Who gives them money to buy Serbian properties, apartments and houses in Kosovo and Metohija? The questions are too many and the times are short. For Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, there is hope, because if there were no hope there they wouldn't stay. As a Serb living in Kosovo and Metohija, I appeal to an absolute Serb unity when it comes to Cosmet and, accordingly, the unique and organised performance of our state bodies. What any government, including our government, would have to do immediately, is to ensure that tuition payments for all students -- students, displaced persons from Kosovo and Metohija, but also to ensure that tuition payments are made for all those who express their desire to continue their education in Kosovo and Metohija, but not only to enroll, but to school there and to finish their education there. Ensuring those who live as displaced persons, those who are in Kosovo and Metohija, who have not lost their right to work, the right to earn money, should be a priority for the state. The rapid reconstruction, reconstruction and construction of houses in Cosmet must be of paramount importance to us and the Serb animal, thereby sorting out a part of the fate of those today few of whom are living here, in collective centres across Serbia, which would thus return to Kosovo and Metohija. The more active role played by the interior ministry and the government of the Republic of Serbia in the concreteisation of the assembly's conclusions, as well as the consistent Julying of Security Council Resolution 1244, should be a priority. That would make him real and solve at least some of those cosmic problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-08-27-0.u33299	The word has been issued by MP Sinisa Mitrovic, the DOS-Reform Serbia parliamentary group. The following is MP Dragan Markovic, the MP group of the Serbian Unity Party.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-08-27-0.u33300	I had a special motivation today, for a number of reasons, to make my small and modest contribution to the debate of the declaration. When you read the declarations brought in over the last ten years, there was everything but serious and visionary policies, there was always more itching, more calls for a reckoning, and one will come time for real questions, to solve the right questions. My special motivation is that this debate is being held in parliament. It is important that parliament becomes the institution of the national consensus on the Kosovo issue. Parliament will be the institution of our consensus in European integration. It is an important event that the issue of Kosovo and Metohija is not a court issue, it is not a political elite issue, it is not a question of some chosen political group, but is indeed a question of all citizens of Serbia, so that all, both positions and opposition, have the same responsibility to take the consequences of good and bad decisions for the future of Kosovo and Metohija. When the Serbian government drafted the declaration and sent it to parliament, there were various comments and assessments: whether it was too late, whether it was good, whether it was mild, whether it was sharp. The basic question arises: what kind of benefit is, what is the profit of Serbian citizens from this declaration. That's the basic question. If we have already agreed not to discuss the status of Kosovo and Metohija, it is a safe benefit, which is a clear initiative towards the international community. That's the profit we're gonna make today. It is the motivation and appeal of this morning, as counterpart Maravić said, that we should all contribute to, to be unique in the decision, that the declaration should be the result of dialogue and consensus in parliament. I was very motivated and satisfied, especially with the iconography Mr. Covic made in the morning, about those four or more character types of Serbians and how he sees the Kosovo problem, ranging from some indifference to a militant attitude. Today, a single policy is clearly demonstrated here, which is to confirm that Belgrade and Serbia have a state and democratic capacity to solve the Kosovo and Metohija problem responsibly. I stress that "they have the democratic capacity to solve Kosovo and Metohija's problem". It's a clear message to the international community about power centres. This means that we have a complete political elite that is ready, which has a vision of getting into something called the Kosovo and Metohija problem. Members of Parliament, by adopting the declaration, we give the elements of a new treaty with the international community. That's what was missing in one state policy. It's a new partnership. It's a new policy for a new time. The intonation of speech is today such that it is comparatively clear that it is an important state problem for Serbia and that it will, as such, be treated stately. I would like to remind you that the Liberals of Serbia constructed the constitution, elections and dialogue with Albanians as key elements of state policy in 2004. Why am I stressing that? It is time for Parliament to assume that part of responsibility, which is called dialogue with Albanians. This is what will certainly be opened in the near future. In the end, I would also like to stress my satisfaction that in inflation, the day-to-day policy of words means nothing. But this event -- the adoption of the declaration -- also has one special responsibility for Serbia's parliament, and for the citizens of Serbia, and for the future of resolving Kosovo's -- Metohic issues. There is no need to talk about Kosovo and Metohija next to the geese. There is no need to talk about Kosovo and Metohija with guns. It is time for the dialogue to be conducted in Parliament, with a new policy, to offer a new state contract with new diplomacy, it would be a new state contract to the international community and to show today that Serbia has a state and democratic capacity to solve Kosovo and Metohija's problem. Serbia has a political elite that knows this, and we are sure that we will manage to resolve it. With that invitation and with this application, I appeal to our reserve colleagues, Kosovo is not a matter of position and it is not only for us in the job description, so I am calling together for the declaration to be unanimously accepted and to make it a clear signal to the state community, as well as to the international community that we know what we want and know where we are going.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-08-27-0.u33301	National MP Dragan Markovic gave up the discussion. The word is from MP Vladimir Garcevic, the SNS parliamentary group. The next reported word is National MP Natasa Jovanovic, the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-08-27-0.u33302	The Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Prime Minister, the Honorable Vice President, the honourable fellow Members, is today in the debate for the third time in this assembly on an important issue that can be considered question number one. I expected after yesterday's committee and last night's agreement that Mr. Zivkovic would ensure that his vice presidents did not challenge any elements of the past, but to speak in that sense as he did. Kosovo is not a question, Mr Covic, since yesterday, Kosovo is a question 100 years ago, so if anything, I learned in my Vasojevici about the settlement of Metohija in 1918, about Balkan wars and nothing new. I expected you, like yesterday on the board, to be worthy of never coming to the congregation to challenge, but to see where. It is a good thing most here see Kosovo as a national issue. It would be far better if these issues such as Kosovo had more. This is number one, that the issue of hunger in Serbia is a national issue, so to discuss how to get out, is not a question of Europe that we all disagree. We all agree on Europe, we are a European country. Ways and ways, that's what needs to be arranged. If we try to throw less accusations, to look ahead, then we will be able, with respect for the intelligence and the knowledge and the opposition and the authorities, to come up with something, because we do not forget that there is a quality fit in the opposition, and we need to be aware of that, so sometimes we need to hear it a little bit, so how much respect is it to be respected. On the other hand, I'd like to appeal to the Prime Minister because it's an opportunity for me to stop some tendency in Erdewik that grows into national markings and conflicts, since I'm from the territory of Srema. Please note that the government in Shid contributes to calming tensions on one side, perhaps the Serb population, and on the other side of Slovakia, on the third side of Croatia, united, etc. Please give your contribution to living in peace in that area where more nations agree. It would be good for this parliament to turn to the future and hold a meeting of parliamentary groups around the privatisation of Kosovo. To hold a meeting so that refugees from Kosovo can make minimum of their rights because the directors have picked up stamps, untrusted workbooks and people can't exercise any rights. Do we have a record of broken houses in Kosovo, given that Mr Djukanovic has an obligation as a partner of this authority to provide in Montenegro, which is located there, have no food, have nothing to live on now, and these are citizens of Serbia. Furthermore, let's see that we help in the centres, if they have to be, to provide food in Serbia, and I'll say where. Here, we have now sold Beopetrol, invest money in protecting Serbian interests and building houses in Kosovo. Invest money in Kosovo Mitrovica, no one will go to Strpce, none of the MPs in this assembly will say why this is privatised and why money is invested to ensure the return of Serbs to Kosovo. I think we'll be unanimous, both opposition and position. So you're making moves like the Serbian government in the security of these people. It's unacceptable for me to say this -- you know, it's according to the press records, generals, so we take off, because NATO was dissatisfied with it. There are patriots as long as this country and this society exist people who have fulfilled their legal obligations. Then we have to protect these people, not push them there. You see, 50 US soldiers are around Karadzic's house, worried, give 50 or 100 soldiers to provide all Serbian animals in Kosovo, and there are 50,000. I can, but it won't. That's where you'll get the support of all MPs. There is no MP who does not wish well for this country to Serbia, suffering, who does not wish well for the Serbian people in Kosovo and all. We who lived down there for a while, I studied there, I think I know more, and I think in Belgrade a few comrades and all of us MPs should read a little history, so some things would open up to us, to look from a more objective angle. I hope that you will learn from this to bring important issues into line with the views of the Serbian Parliament, which is why Serbia could move forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-08-27-0.u33303	Six minutes. The word is from Natasa Jovanovic, followed by Ambassador Vuko Antonijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-08-27-0.u33304	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, until the arrival of DOS, the original DOS to power that included the DSS, and you from the Democratic Party and all the attachments that are now going with you, whether you want it or not, our state was the bearer at the time the SRS participated in the work of the government of the People's Unity, the bearer of all the positive tendencies in solving Kosovo-Metochy problems and we as a state and as responsible government did everything to do in the way that allows us to our constitution and our laws. We were very successful in all this, and that was the key reason why our party entered the government as a minority partner, because of the fact that we succeeded in 1998 to completely combat the Shiparian ballistics and terrorism in Kosovo and Metohija, the murderers of Serbian children, the slaughterers who at the end of the 20th century, the unseen atrocities, unremembered in the history of Serbian civilization. And that is what we Serbian radicals have been extremely proud of, every member of us and anyone who sees true Serbian patriots in us, above all in the policy he advocated, from the position of Deputy Prime Minister and President of the SRS, Serbian hero and greatest Serbian hero today, Professor Vojislav Seselj. As for the U.S., from which you returned to Mr. Zivkovic a month ago and a few days ago, they kept their finger on the trigger, and despite the signing of internationally ratified agreements at the time of Milosevic-Holbrok, they interpreted it tenantly in their own way, all with the aim of afirming a policy of Shiptar terrorism and their ultimate goal to create and realize their eternal dream of great Albania, torn Kosovo and Metohija out of Serbia's state-law framework, then SRJ. However, in addition to our strict adherence to the Constitution and the law, which you did not believe at the time, but rather as a true NATO subservients, you yourself, Mr. Zivkovic, from the position of the self-called Mayor of Nis and all others, and especially Mr. Covic, that I do not mention you further, who will remember all your names at that time, tried to get as close as possible to US Secretary of State Madeline Albright, who, without hiding his sympathy for the Shiptar Ballistics, with logistical support, with the support of Congress, the official American administration, and above all for you to come to power after 10 years, began to realize what is America's strategic policy in the Balkans. They never wanted to comply with internationally recognised legal standards, nor do they today, as you can see through disrespect back in Resolution 1244. Since your coming to power for me as a true Serbian patriot, as someone who has been raised in the Serbian national spirit, it is truly humble and humiliating to look at the level of your humility to your Western employers. You have done nothing, neither you nor this previous government, nor this reconstructed one of yours, nor Vojislav Kostunica, who served as SRJ president, to help Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija. For the past four years, Mr. Zivkovic, UNMIK, with whom Mr. Nebojsa Covic and how well he co-operated, and only now began calling the Shipatarian terrorists shyly, and until several months ago he said that they were extremists, generating lies against the president of the Serbian Radical Party, engaged in various transfers of players, had more to do, and during that time he sold the interests of Serbs in southern Serbia and Kosovo and Metohija, we then told you and warned you that they were indeed the brains of a terrorist organisation, that so-called. The Kosovo Protection Corps has in it over 50,000 mobsters trained in Shipar ballistics, who make up unprecedented atrocities and today-day, and we are witnessing a tragic latest event, the killings of two boys in Gorazdevec. When, like today, you start telling us about us Serbian radicals a strategically important issue, and that's a priority for the state of Serbia, which is why we're going to vote, rise above every party policy, because we expect your government's fall soon, and your entire treasonous and pro-American policies in these areas, we will vote for this declaration. When you speak and mention the names, or names of the place, do not say to Mr Zivkovic, as your representatives from the Democratic Party and the rest of the DOS do, so they are chasing the western Serbian border and incorrectly speaking, instead of saying Karlobag, Ogulin, Karlovac, Virovitica, because they do not know the geography and do not know where the western borders are, do not mix Strpce and Štimlje. This morning you said no Serbs live in Strpc. There, thank God, there are 11,500 Serbs and 99% voted in the final election for Serbian hero Prof. Vojislav Seselj. Therefore, you must face the fact that the Ship's terrorists in the last four years, that's harsh statistics, but that's how they carried out 6,535 acts of terrorism in which 1,201 people were killed, injured 1,328, kidnapped 1,166, against Serbs carried out 5,932 attacks and on other communities living there 335. The number of killed, methods and liquidations do not tell us about increased terrorism and not so shy that they are now afraid or to see the strength of the policy that you are leading to protect Serbs, but to clearly show that there is an extended war there with the tendency to destroy all Serbs, to end genocide against the Serb people, and therefore we must support this declaration today, to be unique in what is called the protection of Serbian national interests. If you want to talk to Thaci, talk to him, but for the Serbian Radical Party, it will never be about Kosovo and Metohija, state and national interests, no compromises, and only in the institutions of the system that we talk about until the moment until we see your back, God will soon, so we can take the helm into our own hands and in the right way, by returning the army and the police, we will protect that people, not that instead Minister Dusan Mihajlovic, who is so well tanned as if he had been roasted at the grill for two months, left this morning, going to Rotanj and picking tea, instead of thinking about returning the police officers and protecting Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-08-27-0.u33305	The word has the People's MP Vuko Antonijevic, followed by the MP Đura Lazic. National MP Vuko Antonijevic is not present. Djura Lazic's messenger has the word, and then the People's Messenger of Hope Kolundzija.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-08-27-0.u33306	The Honorable Presidency, Mr. President, Mr. Vice President, dear fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, for the short time that I have left to present on this important topic, I will try not to repeat what my colleagues have said, but I have to touch certain elements of the discussion of individuals in order to clarify some things. First, I would like to say that in my opinion, the text of the proposed declaration is quite pale in relation to the fact that today is the state of play in Kosovo and Metohija. Otherwise, Kosovo and Metohija are decades old, unfortunately and centuries-old Serbian wounds and each new victim deepens that wound. Problems in Kosovo and Metohija date back to what one colleague said, much more recently, since the Prizren League, when the foundations of Albania's aspirations for Serbian territory have been hit and not only since. Constantly pressures have been made to clean the Serbian living out of these areas. Not to mention the Berlin Congress, then the laws of Broz and Moshe Pijada that banned the return of exiled Serbs by ballistics during World War II. I would not enter into the details of the Bujan conference, which was held in 1943, which was produced by Fadilj Hoxha, who later took up high state functions. A particularly perfiduous banishment of Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija began after 4. Brion Pleum in 1966, and especially after the adoption of the Constitution in 1974, when the provinces were given statehood status and when the provinces had more rights than Serbia as a state in which they were composed. So, the province's constitution gave them constitutional status in the Federation and thus entitled to what the Shipari in Kosovo and Metohija, separatism and self-determination are looking for today. Vice-President Covic said in his statement that it was a mistake that the former regime, or Milosevic's regime, abolished political autonomy for Kosovo and Metohija. I have to say, that's not true. Mr Covic is well aware that constitutional changes, agreed by the Kosovo Assembly at the time, were carried out to demonstrate the province's statehood and the province's status was maintained and the second question was that the Cypriots did not want to use the rights that had been set out in the Constitution and the law of the Republic of Serbia. So that's true. Today, when the issue of Kosovo and Metohija status is mentioned, I think it is hasty about it, so the standards are said first, then the status and so on. Resolution 1244 defined the status issue and it is an integral part of Serbia, the province of Serbia. Therefore, we need not be hasty, hasty, and hastening to meet the demands of the Cypriot Separatist leaders. About that so much, and otherwise about the propaganda that was led, organized propaganda, when the alleged loss of Shipara was forced, the exaggeration of their suffering, and the minimisation of Serbian victims, I would not speak because we are all aware of it. The latest example of trying to distort the truth is also around Gorazdevac, not to mention the Martinovic case and the like. Terrible things have happened, and we need to be more thorough and serious about the campaign, when it comes to the protection of national and national interests. I'm glad the MPs of the Return Coalition are here. I would like to take advantage of their presence here and remind them, and all of you, as well as the public, that the UN Secretary-General's special representatives have made terrible and deliberate mistakes, exceeding the powers that arise from Resolution 1244. In this way, a special criminal law and a provisional law on criminal proceedings have been declared in the Kosovo Assembly. The Secretary-General's representative was not allowed to pass that law, to allow it. Then, he adopted a regulation on the land use of state-owned enterprises for 99 years. He did not prevent the adoption of laws on the census of citizens and their immobilities, which seriously undermined the civil and human rights of Serbs in Cosmet. These laws practically rob the property of the Serbian state and hijack private property of exiled and displaced Serbs, as well as other non-Albanians in Kosovo and Metohija. Representatives of the international security forces are not engaged in ensuring the security and freedom of movement of Serbs, and do nothing to detect and punish perpetrators of murders, terrorist acts and other forms of violence and genocide against Serbs, not wanting to be resented by Cypriot separatist-terrorist leaders. The transformation of the terrorist KLA, i.e. UCK, formed the so-called The Kosovo Protection Corps, which is the base for recruiting members of the new ANA terrorist organisation. This indecision of international community representatives in the fight against violence only encourages Cypriot terrorists, increases the number of Serb victims and allows for faster ethnic cleansing of these areas. Representatives of the international community also constantly obstruct a more massive return of exiled Serbs and displaced Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija. A special view of the obstacles to the return of exiled and displaced is the transfer of competence from the international mission to the so-called. Kosovo institutions made up of Shipari. There is no more mass return of Serbs and other non-Albanians, if their fate and return to their centuries-old hearths should be decided by those who expelled them, usurped their apartments, houses, properties. Imagine, in the very letter of Ibrahim Rugova, Hashim Thaci, Ramush Haradinaj, Rexhepi and other Shipar leaders, it is seemed that I cannot provide them with a job and guarantee their safety. Anything else, but they can't get security, because there's crime, there's this. What a serious call we can talk about by these Shipatarian leaders and indeed about their interest in the return of Serbs, I think it's clear here. I would suggest that this parliament amend point 12 of the proposed declaration on Kosovo and that point 12 in the work - concludes, that the government of the Republic of Serbia and the Council of Ministers of Serbia-Montenegro in front of the International Criminal Court commits criminal responsibility for crimes against Serb and other non-Albanian lives against Hashima Thaci, Ram Haradinaj, Agim Ceku, Bajram Rexhepi, as well as all KLA commanders, since more than 6,000 attacks on Serbian animals have been carried out in the past four years and more than 1,300 have been committed before, and many other crimes have been committed. At the same time, any evidence available to confirm their criminal liability should be offered for the initiation of the criminal proceedings. Without taking responsibility against the most responsible leaders of the terrorist KLA, terrorist attacks and crimes will not stop, but can spread to other parts of the Balkans. Also, I propose that the new UNMIK chief be asked to repeal all these acts, documents, laws that go to the harm of the Serbian and Serbian state, and non-Albanians in Kosovo and Metohija. In the end, dear colleagues, I would suggest that all MPs of today's daily diaries single out the families of tragically injured children in Gorazdevec from a terrorist group of Shiparian criminals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-08-27-0.u33307	The People's Messenger Branislav Blazic has the word: for the people's letter of Hope of Kolundziah has given up. After him, MP Sreten Mitrovica, the SRS parliamentary group is available for four minutes, and the SPS parliamentary group has two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-08-27-0.u33308	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Serbian Government has proposed this declaration that we are discussing today and expects us to accept it. As far as we can believe in the word of the Serbian Government, as much as we can believe in the sincerity of this text, how much we can even believe that it is really from the heart written and that it is something that has now matured and perhaps created a collective consciousness, perhaps in the government, that something must be done in Kosovo. Maybe this is just the result of one event, one new shooting of students in Serbia, one murder, a terror that's been going on for a long time. Can we trust a government that has refused to discuss Kosovo for two years, which has convinced Serbs in Kosovo to go to elections and give legitimacy to terrorist authorities in Kosovo, the terrorist government, the terrorist assembly and all those who have taken off their uniforms after NATO bombing, put on suits and become a political factor in Kosovo. How much we can trust the government that formed the return, which does nothing but tour funerals and declares condolences. But aside now, that's it. Today is not supposed to be a time of great review of some of the mistakes that this government has committed, either in the past or in some other way. It is certain that there is a serious political need to create a gene of everything that has happened in Kosovo. The problem between Kosovo and Metohija is not since yesterday. It's the biggest crime the international community has ever committed in any space. The problem's been going on for decades. This problem arose when the Shiplars crossed the border in a wagon, with all the boulument, we gave them everything they needed, and accommodation, and food and provide everything. It was returned to us with bullets, returned to us by killing. Could Rankovic have done it? Unfortunately, many Serbian politicians then stood against it. Could Milosevic have done it in 1991? He certainly could, however, and he was lenient and Kosovo served him only for the elections and for winning election political victories. True honesty and in national politics, not even then, not at all, and it's not here today either. What happens today in Kosovo and Metohija? DOS parties go there and form municipal committees of two or three members. We hear on TV that the Alternative formed a municipal board, so the second formed, and the third completes the psychotic picture of the political situation in Serbia. Whether we are reunited, completely, and wait, where we should never be divided. What have the media been doing all this time? After the war, after the bombing, after the aggression and everything that the Western politicians bought were doing in Kosovo? Richard Holbrooke went there to take pictures with the Ship's terrorists, only to get money, because no one gets carried away, is paid with the bloody money the Albanian mafia gets from drugs, pays the so-called. Democrats from the West who spread honesty, both justice and truth in the world. There is no justice, there is no truth, everything is in the function of bribing and paying all those who decided when to bomb and kidnap Kosovo. What did the media in Serbia do? Natasa Kandic, Sonja Biserko, who spit on Serbs all these years, were released two or three last. They had the media space maximum and all were accused of Serbs, for all were Serbs. Now they're not gonna answer, and they're gonna ask who shot the Serb children who took a bath in Gorazdevec. Where are these ladies, where are these NGOs, humanitarian organizations, where they're gonna ask you how many thousands of innocent people have been killed in their own country? Are we tenants in our own house? The question is, what do we do now? What's necessary by the points I'll try to make as my own proposal and the SRS proposal, normally. One, I think that Serbs, Serbian science, Serbian politics, the Serbian diaspora must define a minimum of national interest and a national strategy and that must create a consensus on all issues. We cannot wait, and unfortunately we in Vojvodina, i.e. Unfortunately, for us in Vojvodina, Kosovo is an example of what we should be careful about, what we should do is we should not be writing tomorrow's declarations in the north of Vojvodina. Yesterday in Kanjija, the municipality voted that Kanjiza is called Hungarian Kanjiza. Did the Serbian government react? It's not. As she did not react when it came to the gathering of municipalities in the north of Vojvodina by the territorial American principle, she did not react because the votes of the Alliance of the Duchy Hungarians were needed to keep the government from falling. Are we going to keep the government in such a way as to pay and give concessions to autonomous politics in Vojvodina; are autonomists in Vojvodina actually the biggest support for the Shiptar Separatists? How long will that be tolerated?
ParlaMint-RS_2003-08-27-0.u33309	The word has a folk MP, Sreten Mitrovica, and the time available for the SPS parliamentary group is two minutes. After him, the word has been made by MP Marina Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-08-27-0.u33310	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister and gentlemen of the Kosovo and Metohija Coalition, the international mission in Kosovo and Metohija has been present for nearly four years, but its basic task contained in Resolution 1244 of the Security Council on the peaceful co-existence of national communities, on the protection of human rights of all those living in the area of Kosovo and Metohija, has not been achieved from afar. Murders, abductions, threats, the burning of property are the problems Serbs face daily after four years of the arrival of the peacekeeping forces on Cosmet. About 6,000 attacks were registered, 978 murders, and more than 1,000 Serb residents were injured, and the international community cannot or will not implement Security Council Resolution. UNMIK officials, through their administration, do everything they can to cover their infirmities, to show the situation relatively normal and that every day is getting better and better. However, the situation with residents of Cosmeta who are not Albanian ethnicities remains very difficult. Many of them, especially Serbs and Roma, remain isolated in their places, mostly in rural areas, and face great danger if they risk getting out of their place of residence. What has happened lately to Tomic in Skulanov and children in Gorazdevec, who in these tropical heats sought cooling in the river Bistrica by their homes. Many of what is happening in Kosovo and Metohija has been said and this troubled people have asked for help from their country and the international community, although all this is happening with their presence, but the situation is becoming more difficult and more difficult every day. Did Gorazdevac have to happen, which is a sad but real event of cosmetic events, not before that were similar and perhaps worse events. What would happen to Serbs if, God forbid, they committed such crimes. We know what an international community's reaction would be. A positive shift or regret for all that is happening in Kosovo is that the Security Council session was held, however, and this time there was no will and consensus to say that in Cosmet, with direct or indirect support from Albanian institutions, violence with an unhindered goal of clearing the province ethnically from Serbs and thus preparing for independent Kosovo. It should be said that everything that happens in Kosovo and Metohija has the responsibility of UNMIK and KFOR, because for four years they have been ruling in Kosovo and Metohija under the flag of the Security Council. Now I apologize, given the time, that I would not owe in my discussion, I would just point out that there should be a special session with the Kosovo and Metohija problem, because it is well known to all of us and it cannot be resolved in a short time, with a five-minute speech. I would ask the state leaders not to support the dissatisfaction and dissatisfaction of the Serbian people in their speeches, and they are seeking unity here, if they do not know what was in Kosovo and Metohija, to read today's "Blic", where Hans Lockay, the head of the OSCE in Kosovo and Metohija, said in his interview, because he was a representative of the OSCE in Kosovo and Metohija, which happened in 1999 in the area of Kosovo and Metohija. Thank you. The vice president was present when Zarko Obradovic read about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-08-27-0.u33311	The word is made by MP Marina Stamenkovic, and then by MP Momcilo Trajkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-08-27-0.u33312	Dear MPs, the latest terrorist attack by Albanian terrorists in Gorazdevec, which resulted in the massacre of two children, the wounded, the shooting and shelling of military checkpoints on the line of separation between Serbia and Kosovo and Metohija, are in a series of terrorist attacks that marked the last two weeks. These are just the last tragic events in a series of years ago. That Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija return and ensure that they return safely to their homes in Kosovo and Metohija, protect and improve human rights, protect property and return to property, maintain civil order and law, establish a safe environment in which refugees and displaced persons can return to homes, establish an international civilian presence in Kosovo and Metohija, in order to ensure temporary administration in Kosovo and Metohija, with the people able to enjoy essential autonomy, all in order to ensure the peaceful and normal life of all residents in Kosovo and Metohija. So this is contained in Resolution 1244. Serbia has respected all provisions of Resolution 1244 concerning it. The question arises whether its obligations under Resolution 1244 have been met by UNMIK and KFOR. The answer is, they didn't meet. Three UNMIK chiefs have changed and the security situation for Serbs has deteriorated on each duty. That happened a few days ago when he took office, Mr. Holkeri. The overall events in Kosovo and Metohija reflect the south of Serbia, more specifically the municipalities of Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedja, in which Albanians live. The terrorist attacks of Albanian terrorists are also being imitated, the security situation is getting worse, human rights and the elemental rights to life and freedom of Serbs living in these municipalities. I would especially refer to the municipalities of Presevo and Bujanovac, which belong to the Pcinj County. Local elections were held in the municipalities of Presevo and Bujanovac, conducted under the new Law on Local Elections, with respect to the democratic procedure and representation of political parties operating in these premises, in the presence of, of course, the OSCE. Both municipalities were elected presidents of Albanian municipalities, as well as councils in municipalities, according to the number of votes won. All democratic, civil and political rights are respected in relation to them. They live in Serbia's territory and are under the jurisdiction of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro. In international relations, human, civil, political rights are represented and as such they are respected in relation to the Albanian people living in southern Serbia, and they, in turn, resort to terrorism and thereby violate the laws and rights of the state in which they live. Serbia has done everything to integrate the Albanian people living in its territory. In the Bujanovac municipality, Serbs have sold hundreds of houses and apartments for the past few months, as well as in Presevo, with only 2% of Serbs living in Presevo, so Serbs simply disappear. Prosecutions and threats to Serbs have been increased, and this results in emigration. The economy in these municipalities is collapsing. Business partners also bypass what little businesses do out of fear and uncertainty about the conclusion of business contracts, so no business is concluded. This greatly affects the existence and economic survival of these municipalities. I would draw particular attention to the fact that it is being manipulated, that is to say, Albanians are manipulating the trade of the municipalities of Bujanovac, Presevo and Medvedja, or their accession to Cosmet. Of course, it's derived from their Cachanical Constitution and referendum. It was precisely the adoption of this declaration on Cosmet that this trend would be prevented, and this was retained in the declaration, that the state union of Serbia-Montenegro is a full member of the United Nations. So, the principle of state sovereignty. The constitutional command and Resolution 1244 of the UN Security Council confirmed the territorial indifference of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, and of course Serbia as its members. The DSS stance, which is contained in the Kosovo Declaration proposal itself, is an insistence on building a democratic and multiethnic society, an institution, which among all citizens of the province would lead to this being reflected in the south of Serbia, and would thus represent essential autonomy within Serbia-Montenegro. In particular, the United Nations mission to Cosmet is expected to be determined in the realization of Resolution 1244 and to establish conditions for building a democratic and multiethnic society and institutions in Cosmet as an impartial administration.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-08-27-0.u33313	He has the word Momcilo Trajkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-08-27-0.u33314	Mr. President, Mr. Vice President, gentlemen of the Return Coalition, Madam Chairman, while I was sitting here, I was thinking about what to say after all this. She's been processed from all aspects. By listening to the argument, one can agree with those who spoke moderately, but we must agree greatly with those who spoke harshly, vigorously. However, the point is, the method of all these analyses, which we have done today, how we do it all, how we move things, how we will be influenced by the debate and our declaration of peace in Cosmet, regardless of what this declaration, which is on the agenda and which will be adopted, has a very moderate message. That message should be accepted as reasonable. It's a declaration that should actually be some kind of movement of our policy towards resolving the Kosovo-Methochial crisis. I have so many times insisted as a national MP and as president of the Committee that the issue of Cosmeta be put on the agenda of the Serbian Parliament. I must express my satisfaction that we are still discussing this subject today, although it should have been done a long time ago. Cosmet is one of the most common topics in the public and other institutions, both domestic and international, in the previous period. The Serbian Resistance also welcomes this new attempt to elaborate the Kosovo problem. These days, Kosovo-Methohic Serbs expect a declaration with great hope. I believe that this debate should have been preceded by a thorough analysis of the situation in Cosmet, an analysis of the implementation of Resolution 1244 and the results of the implementation of the policy of institutions dealing with the issue of Cosmet. It is only under these circumstances that we could come to a much better quality of achieving a comprehensive approach to the Cosmet issue. Unlike other fields of action of the reform government, where there are apparently results, I think she could have done a lot more on this matter. Many discussions today talk about the depth of the crisis and the weaknesses of the signatories of Security Council Resolution 1244, which have been made by bad actions or inaction, which have led Cosmet to a situation that weighs on Serbs and regions rather than before 1999. At Cosmet, no society has yet been created to ensure the minimum protection of human rights, freedom of movement, tolerance and mutual respect for all. The result is today's catastrophic situation, as a result of the functioning of Albania's terrorist movement are the most direct victims, innocent people and children. If we find this even after four years of the international community's arrival in the area of this part of Serbia, we have to ask ourselves what are the reasons why its mission does not give serious results at the implementation of Resolution 1244. The finding may be too harsh, difficult, but I must openly say that the cause of all this is, above all, the crisis of the international community's strategy, which wants to address this complex issue, which is one-sided, because it is based on the so-called Albanian sacrifice. At the same time, there is a crisis in our strategy. I would also point out the far-reaching and radical strategy of the Albanian nationalist Corps, which does not respect the value systems of the international community and the state and national interests of Serbia. It is therefore a matter of maximum strategies and maximum interests with minor possibilities, not taking into account that there are other interests in Cosmet, Serbia and the Balkans, and in Serbia and the interests of Serbia and the Serbian people. So the factors that need to solve the crisis have become factors that produce the crisis and therefore there is no progress unless the international community revises its strategy. At the very least, there have been victims of everyone in Cosmet for years, and in recent years, especially Serbs, with the presence of the international community. That is why the arrival of a new special envoy should expect a new fair approach to the resolution of the Kosovo-Methochial crisis. His role should not be viewed as being only through a personal question so far, as if he were doing everything alone, but above all as a matter of Security Council policy, whose representative he is. Serbia as a factor is still not at the level of the task of achieving its role in seeking solutions to the Cosmeta problem, although certain shifts are visible. The wrong policy of the international factor, but also the failure of the Serbian factor, conditioned that the Albanian factor used free space, which could lead to independence. Now it opens up a big dilemma that needs to go the way. The first time is a conflict, the second time is impossible, and the third time is the path of co-existence and solutions. Co-existence should be a method of overcoming the crisis, which will lead to a multiethnic society. In this phase of resolving the Kosovo-Methochial crisis, I see no different approach to someone through co-existence in Cosmet. I stand for the path of salvation, not the path of war or the path of impotence. I must immediately conclude that this declaration does not lead to war. On the contrary, this declaration provides a chance for peace. For me, it's a dilemma whether this declaration, even though I believe it leads to peace, is sufficiently articulated by all its strength and whether it shows enough power. I think it communicates between these two alternatives, the inability and the desire to move towards a solution. The impotences, first of all, for objective reasons, because our country, the government, has no possibility of acting more seriously on Cosmet. We brought the Declaration in 2001, in May Resolution, in June of the Declaration. We've had a lot of hard and maximum demands, grades and these documents have dropped. It's even done the opposite of those grades in them. We said there we wouldn't accept the constitutional framework unless things changed and we wouldn't go to the polls unless normal conditions were created. But we still made a move and did what was contrary to those documents that we brought in. That is why today I am warning and insist that we bring real documents, which will be enforceable. There are many unresolved issues, strategically important for the resolution of the Kosovo-Methochial crisis. There's been a lot of talk about these issues today. First of all, these are issues of return to Kosovo and Metohija, the fates of the kidnapped and missing, the issue of usurped private property, the privatisation of social and state property, but also many other issues. This last issue is very important, as it endangers both our national and state interests, as well as the interests of the Serb community in Kosovo and Metohija. These are all major problems that need to be addressed, and particularly the issues of exile, their return to their homes, their hearths, because there is no peace in Kosovo and Metohija without it, nor in the Balkans. That is why, above all, we expect the international community to carry out its commitments and start making promises by urgently starting a serious and sustainable return of Serbs to Kosovo and Metohija. This is important not only because of Serbs from Serbia, but also because of the international community, which has suffered a defeat of its own policy and has compromised the fluids of democratic Europe and the world. However, it is also important for Albanians, who are taking a moral and civilizational test ahead of history. To those of us, who claim to be in the business of return, I recommend that this issue is not used for the purpose of daily politics and politics. Returning is a chance for everyone. That's why we have to take care of it. From an internal political point of view, there are two key interests for me: the national - state interest and the interest of the Serbian people in Kosovo and Metohija. In order for the poor strategy of resolving the Kosovo crisis to be successful, we need to balance these two interests. The strategic state interests we, as a vulnerable part of the people, fully understand, are ready to endure painful cuts and compromises that our country will have to make. These interests must not be below the minimum of state interest, which is that Cosmet cannot be independent and cannot be outside Serbia. For all this, I would also mention the interests of the Serb people in Cosmet, as well as those who share our destiny, who have been exiled throughout central Serbia-Montenegro. First of all, it's an economic and social existence. The unresolved issue also raises many other issues, particularly the issues of the real estate, houses, apartments in Cosmet, and most directly endangers the survival of Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija. The most common reason for alienation of property, in addition to pressure and insecurity, is to provide naked existence and seek alternatives to life outside Kosovo and Metohija, and more and more pronounced. A large number of families are almost on the verge of misery. They're not receiving, they live in collective centers. They especially sense hopelessness and imperceptibility. During that time, fewer individuals enjoy prosperity. We know that Serbia is in a difficult economic and social crisis and that the burden of the crisis and the cosmetic accident on the back of an outcast worker and peasants from central Serbia. We also know that Serbia allocates huge funds for Kosovo and Metohija, but they must be fairly and properly deployed. A large number of workers, for more than four years, have not received their salaries. So we can't say that the state doesn't do anything, but we can say that by doing this, the problem isn't solved enough, it's being kept in central Serbia. So despite the great effort, Serbia's strategy is inert. Active policy requires institutions that would for all time correct the harmful historical processes of the departure of Serbs, which from Čarnojevic, are moving from the south to the north and that they already point them from the north to the south. What state problem can open this issue, as a positive approach to resolving Kosovo and Metohija issues opens it? Some would, because of the complexity of this question, raise their hands from him. And I, in this very complexity of the Kosovo-methohic problem, see our chance, because the issue of Kosovo and Metohija does not lie only in Albanian relations and only by solving them will not contribute to resolving this issue, because the problem is much greater. So Cosmet is a regional but also European problem, which must inevitably be addressed through access to European and Euro-Atlantic integration. In this context, I welcome and support the government's integration policy. I think it's a path that can lead to a solution to that question. Without a position on the international agenda, it will be very difficult to solve this problem. By entering European integration, we are creating a political environment and becoming partners in resolving such large issues in this part of the Balkans. The Serbian Resistance motion went through amendments and towards formation: Serbia-Montenegro's state council for Cosmet, the Government of the Republic of Serbia's Ministry for Kosovo and Metohija, as well as the state fund, as such an approach would make our policy active. I believe that the formation of the Ministry of Kosovo and Metohija, at a republican level or at the level of the state community, would strengthen our policy and establish a system of responsibility for its implementation. If it does not join the formation of a new ministry - the Ministry of Kosovo and Metohija, it is necessary, and within the shortest time, to carry out the basic organisational and personnel reconstruction of the Coordination Centre, because it is in the form in which it currently exists, in my opinion, to carry out the burden of the commitments undertaken in a responsible, quality and efficient manner. The formation of a state council would be a better chance of a consensus within the state community, thereby directly involving Montenegro in resolving this problem. Montenegro cannot say it does not have its ethnic, historical and state roots and interests in Kosovo and Metohija, so we would also strengthen the state union. It is particularly important to form a state fund for Kosovo and Metohija. There would be accumulated funds spent today for Cosmet, but without greater control. The Fund would set criteria that would solve problems, primarily those that remained in Kosovo and Metohija, but also those who wish to return to Kosovo. This fund can represent a pillar of survival and return policy, as well as Serbia's active policy towards Kosovo and Metohija, as the fund, in addition to its social dimensions and providing help to return, should also contribute to the creation of new jobs and help cultural institutions of national importance. It would be a clear message to the upset and concerned people in Kosovo and Metohija that Serbia not only wants to do what it wants to do, but wants to fully institutionalise and protect Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija. For example, in four years, several generations, several thousand students finished school. They're wandering the streets because there's no work there. If we don't take this problem seriously, I'm sure most of that youth will go to crime, take drugs or leave Kosovo and Metohija. There are other measures, and now I don't have time to elaborate them, which would make our strategy active. But we need to talk about this very seriously, and we need to talk about it soon. We need to include all relevant factors so we can get a better position, so the whole situation can be seen even better. I believe that the Serbian government, at this stage, should conduct dialogue with UNMIK, as a partner, to form frameworks and an environment for future co-existence of all communities in Kosovo and Metohija. It is certain that there is a need for preparation for dialogue, which is insisted by the international community, Belgrade - Pristina. I will be free to state my position and say that, in parallel, there is also a need to insist on a Serbian-Albanian dialogue on everything except status issues. A key role at the local level and at the level of Cosmet in the talks should be taken over by Kosovo-Methochial Serbs, as a political factor in resolving life issues and, if possible, establishing normal co-existence with neighbours. I know it's hard today. But our insistence on this strengthens the position and state of Serbia, and the state union in Kosovo and Metohija. I would point out once again that it would not be dialogue or negotiations on key, strategic, status issues, but that it would be a dialogue on everyday life. While staying last week in Serb-returning places, especially in the White Pole, I saw their attempt to establish some -- such relations with Albanians who know they have successes, that problems are sort of solved. But unfortunately, that's what destroys extremists and terrorists. We must not give up dialogue, from Serbian-Albanian dialogue. Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija must be a serious political factor in order to help the state, so that processes can be opened and that the state can seriously address all this with its strategy. Just waiting for the state to talk, in my opinion, isn't the best strategy. The state should discuss issues it is obliged to discuss, but Kosovo-Methochial Serbs should urgently call on Albanians to dialogue, not only within the framework of the system institutions, but also outside the system institutions, and thus show that they want to solve the problem, thus strengthening our position. In terms of Kosovo and Metohija, I have come to the conclusion that there is no solution for Kosovo and Metohija, there is a solution. It's a process. Those who expect this problem to be solved overnight are very wrong. I welcome the political consensus and maximum seriousness, but I remind you of the political responsibility the failed implementation of this declaration brings before the citizens of Serbia. I hope that we will have this consensus for further development of our country's platform and strategy, that we will agree on other issues, because the consensus is false if it is built only on the Kosovo issue. If we do not have it on strategic issues, in reforming our country, we will not create an environment for resolving the Kosovo-methohic issue. I support those who have gone into consensus and dialogue here in parliament, and I want this dialogue to open between the opposition and the position, in order to really show that we don't only care about dialogue, to consensus, to falsely calm the situation, and when this debate is over, things will go well. Those who do not accept reform laws and reforms tomorrow in parliament that need to strengthen and pave the way for European integration were falsely on the side of compromise and consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-08-27-0.u33315	The word has a folk MP Svetlana Stojanovic, followed by MP Stanko Kovacevic. National MP Stanko Kovacevic quits, then the next MP, Ljubodrag Grbic, is registered.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-08-27-0.u33316	The honourable MPs, in points 6 and 7 of the declaration on Kosovo and Metohija, are empowered and obliged to protect Serbian cultural heritage in Cosmet, of course in co-operation with UNMIK and UNESCO. The Republic of Serbia sincerely seeks European integration, but calls on civilised Europe, a civilized world, to standards that apply to their cultural heritage and to ours, because the cultural heritage of all peoples is common to us. The Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija last made 98% of the population, not long ago, in 1945, but at the geographical space of Cosmeta, which is no more than 100km in diameter, eight centuries incessantly, from the 12th to the 20th centuries, overcame 1,300 Serbian churches and monasteries. In all historical circumstances, Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija built and preserved their churches and monasteries in joy and suffering, and monasteries and churches held Serbs as a nation in return. In 1,300 churches and monasteries in Kosovo and Metohija there are icons, books, textiles, metals, crosses, candelaurs, butters and smoke shops. In 1986, 15,000 icons, 10,000 religious books, several thousand vessels, and hundreds of church bells were recorded. These relics are now sold on the black market across European countries. The declaration of Kosovo and Metohija may have more symbolic than practical value, however, if this declaration were adopted unanimously in the Serbian Parliament, we would show by our authority that we were undivided and unequivocally behind our countrymen who live or are exiled from Kosovo and Metohija, and the world understands the language of diplomacy and declarations much better than the language we occasionally try to talk to the world. Please be patient and allow me, although it will take me to read you a copy of the official document of the Serbian Orthodox Church, which is as such a send-off to all relevant institutions in the world and to all foreign embassies. You will see from the document how many Serbian churches and monasteries in Kosovo and Metohija have been torn down, not in the past eight centuries, but in the last four years, after the international community, or UNMIK, has taken the obligation to care for the southern Serbian province. So I'm starting to read a copy of this document: destroyed, burned, demoted and robbed churches from June 15, 1999 to May 10, 2003. Destroyed monasteries: 1. The medieval monastery of the Holy Trinity, above the Mushutišta (Suva Reka), the 14th century, a church of frescoed; robbed, demoted, burned and then knocked to the ground by explosives. 2. The medieval monastery of St. Mark, near Korisha Prizren, from 1467, robbed, demoted, burned and completely destroyed by explosives. 3. The medieval monastery of St. Archangel Gavril in the village of Binach near Vitina, from the 14th century with frescoes. First robbed and burned, and on June 23, 1999, dynamite was destroyed to the ground, first the ends and then the church, so that parts of the frescoes were visible in the ruins, and then they collapsed under the weather. 4. The monastery of Successia, Šarenik, Gornja Nerodimlje, 14th century, renovated in 1996; a mined and completely collapsed. 5. The monastery of the Holy Archangel, the Upper Nerodimlje, the 14th century, with the frescoes. Restored in the 17th century. Burned and mined. Cemetery's down. The enormous pine of Emperor Dushan of 1336, cut and burned. Six. The monastery of the Holy Ones returns the Cosms and Damjan, in Zocište, the 14th century, the frescoed; robbed and demoted, burned. Seven. Manastir Vedestire of the Virgin Mary, in Dolce near Kline, the 14th century, restored 1620, frescoed. First burned and holy throne destroyed, then mined and destroyed to the ground. Parts of the frescoes were seen on the walls and collapsed in the rain. Destructed Churches: 8 / 8 The medieval church of the success of the Virgin Mary, a fresco from 1315, in Mushutište. Burned and then collapsed to the ground. Nine. St. George's Church, in the Serbian Mine, the 14th century, restored in the 16th century, with frescoes. Next to the church, an old saintly dude, like in the Cave Patriarchy, and a cemetery where there are very old stone crosses. Demolished and burned in August 1999. Ten. The Church of St. Nicholas, in Prizren, the 14th century, in August 1999, completely collapsed. 11. The Church of the Virgin Mary, in the village of Zociste, at Orahovec, the 15th century, was restored. Defiled and destroyed by the end of 1999. 12. The Church of the Holy Vedestre in the village of Retimlje, near Velika Hoca, with frescoes built 1602, defiled and destroyed completely by the end of 1999. 13. The Church of the Holy Savior, in the village of Omnaš, near Velika Hoče, 14th century, restored in 1925. It's down to the ground. 14. The Church of the Holy Trinity, in Djakovica, erected on the foundation of the Memorial church of 1939, demoted, burned. A precious mosaic was destroyed over the front door and then a complete church collapsed by explosives on the night between July 24th and 25th 1999. 15. Church of St. Nicholas, Slovenia, near Lipian, 16th century, restored in the 19th century. Explosive down to the ground. 16. The Church of the Holy apostles Peter and Paul in the Dry River, built in 1939. Dimmed and then collapsed to the ground with explosives. 17. The Church of the Holy Trinity, in the village of Petrich, near Peća, destroyed by dynamite to the ground. Even copper from the dome was removed and taken away. A hundred-year-old oak in a church port cut. 18. The Church of the Holy Trinity, in the village of the Great River, near Vučitrn, demoted, burned and failedly destroyed. 19. The parish church of the Holy Trinity in the village of Grmovo, near Vitina, was first burned and then completely destroyed by an explosive of 25.7.1999. 20. St. Nicholas's Church, Kiev, Cunea's 16th century, with frescoes. It's down to the ground. Crosses and monuments at the cemetery destroyed. 21. The church of St. Mark's Gospel, based on the old church of Vaveda, in Klina, was destroyed by explosives. 22. St. Friday's Church, in the village of Dobrčana, between Gjilan and Kosovo's Kamenica, burned, the roof collapsed. 23. The church of St. Vasili the Great, from 1863, the Upper Serb at Prizren, burned and destroyed. 24. The Church of St. Friday, in the village of Zaskok, near Uroševac, mined and destroyed. 25. Church of St. Nicholas, medieval, restored in 1984, in the village of Gatnja near Uroševac, and demoted by dynamite. 26. The Church of the Mothers, old, restored in 1925, the Upper Nerodimlje, demoted and destroyed. 27. The Church of the Motherland, the 16th century, renovated, in the village of Korisha near Prizren, collapsed to the ground, as well as the old church. Cemetery destroyed. 28. The Church of St. Jeremiah, in the village of Rebnik near Klina, the beginning of the 19th century, collapsed to the ground. A field aligned with a bulldozer. 29. Church of St. Friday, above the village of Binache near Vitina, restored on very old foundations. In 1999. July 27th first burned and defiled, then mined. 30. The Church of the Holy Savior, in Halls, at the Mushutište, the Dry River, from 1465. Completely collapsed in the summer of 1999. 31. St. Elijah's Church, in the Locks at Prizren. In 1866 built on the old foundations of the 13th century. Defiled and mined in August 1999. Thirty-two. Church in Upper Zakut, ten kilometers from Podujev, 14th century, renovated in 1990. Minimalized and collapsed on 8 November 1999. 33. The Church of St. Nicholas, built in 1340, renovated in 1592, with frescoes, is located at the cemetery in Djakovica. It's completely torn down to the ground. The memorials at the cemetery were torn down. 34. The Church of St. Nicholas, in the village of Osojane near the East, restored on the old foundations in 1934. In late 1999, defiled and destroyed. 35. The Church of St. Elijah, in the village of Gegri, near Gjilan, demoted, and then completely burned. In the cemetery, broken crosses and monuments. 36. The Church of St. Elijah, in Pomazatim, near Belacecvac, Kosovo Polje, built in 1937, was destroyed in 1941 and in the summer of 1999, and on Sunday, July 16, 2000, by mined to the ground. 38. Church of St. Nicholas, Lower Nerodimlje, old, restored in 1983. Demolated, burned and mined. 39. Church of St. Stefan, Lower Nerodimlje, 14th century, renovated in 1996. Demolated, burned and mined. 40. Church of St. Vasili Ostroško, Ljubovo - East, built in 1939. In 2002. November 16th, mined. 41. The medieval monastery of Devic, St. Joanniki, in the Serb, with frescoes, built in 1434. Demolished and robbed. 42. The Church of the Vagues of the Goddess, in the White Field, near Peća, the 16th century, restored in 1868. Dimmed and burned. The cemetery around the church was torn down and buried with garbage. 43. The cathedral church of St. Uroš, in the town of Uroševec, was erected in 1929, demoted and burned. 44. The Church of the Holy Prophet Elijah in the city of Vuchitrn, the beginning of the 19th century, robbed, demoted and partially burned. Graves around the church collapsed. 45. The church of St. John the Baptist, the Samodrež, near Vuchitrn, the 14th century, restored in 1932. Dimmed and burned. 46. The Church of St. Paraskeva, in Drsnik near Peća, the 14th century, with the frescoes from 1570. Defiled, demoted and burned. 47. The Mother's Church in the village of Naklo near Peći, the end of the 19th century. Demolished and burned. 48. Church of the Holy Apostolic, Petrovac, near the Kosovo Stonestone, demoted and burned. 49. Holy Mother Church, in the village of Podgorica, near Vitina, restored in 1996. Demolished and burned on June 30, 2000. It's all the way down to the ground, but it's mined. Fifty. The church of St John's Baptist, in Pecko Banja, near Peća, demoted and burned. 51. The Church of the Council of the Serbs, in Djurakovec, near Peća, on 16 November 2002, was demoted by the mining. The church home at the temple burned down. 52. The Church of the Holy Prophet Elijah, in the Bishop, between Prizren and Djakovica, the 14th century, was restored on the old foundations of 1930. In World War II brought down and then restored in 1988. Now completely demoted. 53. The Church of St. Dimitri, in Siga, near Peća, the 14th century, restored in 1937 on medieval foundations. Dimmed and burned. 54. Church of Saints, Novake, Prizren, 14th century restored in 1991. Demolished and burned. The graves around the temple are torn down. 55. The Church of the Introduction of the Mother, in the Great Krushevo near Klina, the 14th century, restored in 1980. It's broken and partially burned. 56. Church of St. Nicholas in Ljubidja near Prizren, 16th century, renovated in 1867. Robbed and demoted. Parochial home burned down. 57. The Church of the Holy Prophet Elijah, in the village of Ljubidda, at Prizren, the 16th century, restored in 1979. Robbed, demoted, burned and mined. Cemetery around the church collapsed. I'm gonna have to hang up, seeing that interest is dropping. The list is not final.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-08-27-0.u33317	I ask the MPs for a little more attention and take their seats. National MP Stanko Kovacevic gave up the discussion. National MPs Dragan Tomic and Branislav Ivkovic cannot participate in the debate, as their parliamentary group has spent the time allowed. National MP Bosko Ristic gave up the discussion. The word has the People's MP Ljubodrag Grbić, and the next is the MP Zlata Djeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-08-27-0.u33318	The Honorable Presidency, Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as MP for Liberal Serbia, I believe that the declaration we are considering should serve as a framework for Serbia's new policy and strategy to address the Kosovo and Metohija status issues. According to its character, the declaration marks that political space, unfortunately the thin political margin on which the Balkans, and thus Europe, are moving hard between war and peace. Dear MPs, a United Nations protectorate in Kosovo, characterised by Security Council decisions on the mission of the United Nations' temporary and civilian administration and KFOR, showed its ineffectiveness. The Security Council, as an organ of a already anachronous collective security model, did not use Kosovo and Metohija, or Serbia's position, to show its vitality in the new circumstances of the US's predominantly influence on geopolitical and security-political relations in the world. Serbia is not in a position to suffer experiments reviving the model of collective security management in the world, even when it is the policy of its important European partners. The greatest expression of understanding for the role of the UN, to respect the importance of a harmonised policy of the European Union and of America, to understand the Albanian political elite in Kosovo and Metohija, to understand the importance of dialogue and tolerance, to understand new security objectives, which are human rights and freedoms for the smallest minority in the world, individuals, Serbia and Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija have expressed by accepting the constitutional framework for Kosovo and Metohija and by participating in the elections for the Kosovo and Metohija Assembly. Today we are witnessing the debacles and policies of the Albanian political elite, and the policies of the European Union and the United States, because the temporary institutional framework for Kosovo and Metohija, the temporary order of the institutions of Kosovo and Metohija, together with the UN administration for civil affairs, is wrapped and primarily paralyzed by the hydro-terrorism organisations and the mafia. The death of the UN administration's vital parts in Kosovo and KFOR headquarters structures is evident. The Liberals of Serbia believe that Serbia today is opening new ways for diplomacy and new partnerships and shows the vitality of its policy and capacity for new agreements and agreements on the future of Kosovo, Serbia, the Balkans and Europe, and above all Serbs and Albanians in Kosovo and Metohija. Serbia is directly tasked with regulating its positions with the US, the European Union and Albania on the future of Kosovo and Metohija and its residents. Serbia is able to look at all strategic, geopolitical and military-political interests of the United States of Serbia and the region and in an agreed manner and without delay to respond. Such strategic co-operation alone cannot distance us from economic and political integration into the European Union. The European Union has been called on to make the economic, political and security capacities in Kosovo society present and effective, to justify its permanent presence in building stable institutions serving both Serbs and Albanians in Kosovo and Metohija and bringing them closer to the status of citizens of Europe. Serbia should look for a partner in the European Union to ensure that Kosovo and Metohija become and remain an open society, both for Serbia's society and for Albania's society and for all Balkans and Europeans. Serbia rightly expects to see in the process of establishing a constitution of the European Union and a community that can take responsibility for the development of Serbia and Kosovo's and Metohija's society. Serbia, the United States, the European Union and, why not say, Albania should agree on what Kosovo's political capacities as a region of special status in the European Union are. What are the limits, the use of this status, and what are the EU's modalities for taking responsibility and on the basis of a contract with Serbia to perform its sovereign functions. It is very important that the only condition on the road to be achieved is the full demilitarisation of Kosovo and Metohija, which includes the disbanding of the Kosovo Corps. This is the only condition for the agreement to meet all US military-political and geo-political demands. Our politicians, all of us, should present to the European Union a challenge and an offer for a historic agreement in Kosovo under the European Union, a future militant force that grows with and from Euro-Atlantic structures. The societies of Serbia and Albania today are poor societies. They do not have the capacity to provide or finance the development of institutions needed for the civilization co-existence and co-existence of citizens of Serbs and Albanians. In this lies the need for custody or patronage of the European Union, as the natural political community to which we belong. The European Union has allocated the largest economic assistance in the region from its budget, and the construction of political institutions has also been entrusted with the administration of the United Nations, which is a strategic divide in relations with Kosovo and Metohija, which requires urgent elimination, leadership and subsidisation of those institutions that provide the largest economic assistance for development, and in this case the European Union. Our efforts should be aimed at improving the constitutional framework for Kosovo particularly in the work of the organisation of the institutions and regional organisations of Kosovo and Metohija. The path to a multiethnic community can also be through the European experience of Belgium or Bolcan in Italy and the like. Dear MPs, a statement by the new UNMIK representative that the fate of Kosovo and Metohija will be decided by the Security Council, is the first sign that Serbia and its parliament are even clearer in positioning towards the US and the European Union. We need to ensure Serbia's agreement with all strategic partners, so that they do not become a potential pro-experimental polygon with the surviving role of the Security Council in the world, to which the ineffective policies of many countries of our so-called. partner. The dialogue with Albanians began the moment we elected a delegation of the Kosovo and Metohija parliament. We can improve that dialogue. It can be complemented by the accession of representatives of Serbia's parliament and the accession of other representatives of the Kosovo Assembly, thus obtaining a single line, a parliamentary line. It could be complemented by representatives of the state government of Serbia and the administration of Kosovo, thus obtaining a second level, and a forum of the NGO sector is needed, encouraged enough for sustainable dialogue. That would be a proposal to open the dialogue on a higher level. It is a guarantee that dialogue can run continuously, at least on one level of society and with the attention of patrons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-08-27-0.u33319	The word has a folk MP Zlata Djeric, a New Serbia parliamentary group. National MP Milan Stanimirovic gave up the discussion, and the next reported for the word is MP Miroslav Markicevic, also a New Serbia parliamentary group, and this is the last reported according to statements for the word in this unique search. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-08-27-0.u33320	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable Presidency, respected members of the government, honored guests of the Return Coalition, New Serbia will support this declaration, because we think this is a step closer to a complete, final and fair solution to the crisis in Kosovo, which we all expect, and we all hope. This is what we were tasked with as a generation of politicians to deal with him at the moment when this crisis and this Kosovo tragedy reached its escalation. Neither this nor the previous generation of politicians blamed the situation in Kosovo, so if we go looking for the culprits, the Prizren League was mentioned here, and Dimitria Tucovic also wrote about the problems of Serbia and Albania in his book "Serbia and Albania" and recognised the problem. Unfortunately for us, it has hit us to deal seriously with it and to include an international factor. The declaration, if there are no clear mechanisms, how will be implemented and who will be responsible for its implementation, then there is only a series of good wishes and good intentions. What we consider missing in this declaration, although in the text itself we would not take anything away, that is the address to which it should be addressed. I don't think anyone in this House is against what's in the declaration. We agree on this, and we believe that it should be implemented. What we think should be achieved by it, is to put pressure on it, to address the Security Council and finally expose it, we must face it, the hypocrisy of the international community towards Serbs in Kosovo, according to Serbia at all. So, first of all, to respect Resolution 1244, and thus this declaration will have its own meaning. What is very important (and I see that we are all nervous, that we are all tired at the end of this working day, which was really full of work day) and that I ask you, and that is to achieve unity around the vote. This is not just a message to Serbs in Kosovo, I have no doubt, I believe, I am convinced that every MP in this parliament is with them at this time and there is no duality about it. This must be a clear message to the world and to the international community that Serbs, that it is to the Serbian parliament and that this state community cares about the issue once and for all being resolved fairly and that Serbs will no longer agree to this second-rate status in Kosovo, which is an indivisible territory of Serbia. The only thing I have to do is make a complaint to the government, which is that she had to invite the citizens, at least Belgrade, to a peaceful protest after the murder of the children in Gorazdevec. I resent all the NGOs that work here, and they didn't react differently. This can't happen to us. If there's anything in this country and this people sacred, they're our children. At least on behalf of all those victims who fell in Kosovo, these children oblige us to talk about them differently. If this declaration is not sufficient pressure on the international community, or the Security Council, to finally start respecting the resolution they have made, and regarding our premises, for our citizens, for our lives, for our destiny, then this declaration will remain a mere Bengal fire. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-08-27-0.u33321	The word has been made by MP Miroslav Markicevic, the New Serbia parliamentary group. The remaining time of your parliamentary group is two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-08-27-0.u33322	The Honorable Presidency, Mr. President, gentlemen, I would like to say immediately, and you have seen from the previous presentation, that the New Serbia Parliament Club will vote in favour of a declaration on Kosovo and Metohija. I would like to tell Mr. President that he does not take this as a support to the government of the Republic of Serbia, but rather her intention to finally do something in Kosovo. I know that most Serbian citizens at this time have no confidence in the government of the Republic of Serbia, but I also want to say honestly that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has inherited the problem of Kosovo and Metohija, the life of our people there and that the question is what it can do at this point. You said you had no authority to bring the army and police back to Kosovo, but what you can do and thus gain confidence in opposition MPs, when it comes to this sacred country, as we like to say, is that, as far as New Serbia is concerned, by the end of the week, investigate who misbehaved by the media on the day of mourning declared by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I would like to remind you, Mr. Zivkovic, of our opposition days, of what the "Storm" looked like in 1995 and what the RTS looked like that day, where it was sung and played. I'm not going to say that some media did this this time, but when you, as a government, answer that, then New Serbia will say its opinion. I would also like to tell my fellow MPs that here today there are many drilling in the chest, that hundreds of thousands of soldiers have spoken of Serbian heroes, but as far as I'm concerned, there is only one Serbian hero and his name is Bogdan Bukumiric, and I want him to be honest with me as possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-08-27-0.u33323	Since no word has been reported on the lists of parliamentary groups, I ask if any of the presidents of the parliamentary groups who have not used this right have applied for the word. There's no application. Whether he wants the final word Mr Nebojsa Covic, Deputy Prime Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-08-27-0.u33324	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, for me this is the expected controversy and argument I have heard. Of course, I am grateful for the understanding I also recognized in all the discussions, because when we throw out what was excessive and what was marketing and EPP, then I see that we are about the same way about this state and national interest, as is Kosovo and Metohija. We have been looking for a meeting of the Serbian Parliament on Kosovo and Metohija for two years, including me as head of the Coordination Centre. Unfortunately, that didn't happen. It happened now, but I don't think it's too late, and I don't think that the Serbian Parliament should discuss or talk about Kosovo and Metohija just to talk, but that we have to keep making a certain contribution in terms of solving a terribly large, one of our biggest problems. Just for some clarifications -- southern central Serbia, more specifically the municipalities of Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedja; did not start the conflict with the arrival of democratic authorities, the conflict was inherited from January 2000, as was inherited by the Land Area of Security and the Air Area of Security, where our army could not enter, and then by one new way to solve the crisis and conflict in southern Serbia, we tried the solution, because it was not resolved until the end, we introduced our army into that space. As for the missing and kidnapped, so that there would be no manipulation of this very painful and difficult problem, we have them both from 1998 and 1999, so this is the problem we also inherited, but it is true that the kidnapping continued after 10 June 1999, but did not continue after 5 October 2000. With regard to the ongoing monetary mystification, as far as it goes, whoever wants to get the information can watch, participate in all this and I also feel that some appear to be more interested in the Kosovo and Metohija budget than in solving the problems of Kosovo and Metohija citizens. It's not true that there's no state policy left. As early as August 2001, we adopted a programme for the implementation of Resolution 1244. About the change in the Security Council resolution; I don't think it's possible to change the Resolution and that it won't change until it's fulfilled. It is very important for us to be an active and real partner during this entire time period of reaching some standards in terms of assessing the fulfillment of the resolution. Let me remind you, it's not a Security Council session where we held our first session. That's the fifth we were present on. The situation we inherited was such that we couldn't even go to the Security Council. We had six points on the Security Council, and now there's only one, two, more specifically. The second is The Hague Tribunal. This one is Kosovo and Metohija. And there's nothing commendable about the country on the Security Council. It's not commendable because it carries terrible problems, because the country has big problems and it's not a reference, so it wasn't any euphoria after the Security Council session, it was a real presentation of something that happened, something where for the first time certain groups were called what they should be called, which is terrorists. There was also controversy about going to elections in Kosovo and Metohija. We can talk whatever we want, but if we hadn't gone to elections then Kosovo and Metohija would have been taken away, and we can hold after that as long as you want the Serbian Parliament. Members of the Return Coalition are not in the assembly because of Albanians, but because of Serbs and they must defend Serbian national interests, they should not leave the assembly and it is not true that the government in Belgrade urged Serbs to enter the Kosovo Protection Corps. She's never done that. She did invite them to join the Kosovo Police Service. Why? Because there are no police down there, and our police and our army in these conditions is not realistic to go back to Kosovo and Metohija, no matter how much I understand our wish is the same. If he can't come back by now, then in the Kosovo Police Service, the Serbs themselves will be best guarded by Serbs. Now, there is another problem -- that it suits some that there are no police at all, because it would be so easy for them to be masters of everything and everything, masters and enormous crime that is multiethnic and multinational in the area of Kosovo and Metohija. I will make a brief comment only, in Presevo 2% of Serbs live, 8% of Serbs live or about 8% of Serbs live. Support in the world to stop murderers and terrorists; I think we're on our way to getting that support together from day to day, but in order to get it, we need to clearly fence ourselves from the mistakes we've made, to remove them, and I certainly know that the problem of Kosovo and Metohija is over 200 years old, but I, don't be angry, I have to say what we inherited and what the problem we inherited and what's new. When, before 1999, before 5 October or 10 June 1999, we had institutions down there, we had an army, we had the police, we had the state down, and now we don't have it. We have been suspended from the territory of Kosovo and Metohija. It's not true that health care was released, education was released. No, Serbia, or the government in Serbia, acts exclusively under Resolution 1244, but because of some political and political stories, we cannot leave that people down in the sky or on earth, but in a real approach or in a real relationship, as much as Serbia can really help them and vote for its positions and its rights in the area of Kosovo and Metohija. I'm not used to courting myself, and I speak the same thing on the outside and in the Republic Parliament, so I'm talking the same thing in Belgrade and New York and I don't have a single reason to have six different stories. About the praises, about the new special representative of the secretary general, it's time to give the man a chance. What he'll be, I don't know. Based on the first contacts and conversations, it seems to me that he's patient, moderate, that he's not the kind of man who's going to make marketing out of everything and everything, the way he's done it before. Hekerup was moderate and rational, but scared by terrorist groups of Albanians after signing for us a very important document, which is a joint document, signed on 5 November 2001. If dialogue is conducted, it should be guided by this document. It's an internationally recognised document. There is a high working group in it, and there are working groups to solve so-called practical life or other problems. The purpose and attempt of the previous special representative was to disabling the entire document, which is next to Resolution another document that is internationally recognised and that is quite good, as good as it can be good at these conditions. In the end, the demonstration of Serbian institutions; the co-ordination centre has done nothing without decisions by the government of the Republic of Serbia, the federal government and the cabinet of the president of the SRJ, Mr Vojislav Kostunica. So that's what we did together, and all the documents were brought and signed together. The prime minister answered about the children's supplements. Our goal is a multiethnic society in Cosmet, but I think before a multiethnic society, we need to get to the Cosmet society at all in terms of dealing with terrorists, criminals, organised crime, which I say again is multiethnic and multinational. At the very end, the standards before the status; our opinion was adopted to operate on Bench-Marks or standards. That means you know the deadlines, the bearers, the time when the banch-marks will be held. As for the anger over the elimination of the autonomy, listen, we've abolished autonomy to talk about broad autonomy again now. Thank you for your attention, for your support and for the understanding we've received. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2003-08-27-0.u33325	I thank the Deputy Prime Minister. He has the word of the Prime Minister, Mr. Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-08-27-0.u33326	I would like to thank all those who have contributed to their discussions to support the declaration and to express their personal position, which will be of great importance for the further work of the Government and its institutions, and on Cosmeta. If we adopt this declaration unanimously today, we will send messages on four sides. The first message will be to the general public in Serbia that this parliament is part of the government, means that this authority is ready and able to seriously and rationally approach all important issues, which are of the greatest, greatest state and national importance. Kosovo and Metohija are one of these priorities, probably the most important and conditions for all these other priorities ahead of us, such as European and Euro-Atlantic integration. So I think it's important that this declaration be adopted unanimously. The message also goes to the international community. The message will be that the democratic government in Serbia respects all international rights and signed documents, that it does not call for war, that it can be a good partner to all of the international community, but also that the democratic government in Serbia has neither the right nor the intention to give up fighting for the legitimate interests of Serbia and the Serb people in the territory of Kosovo and Metohija. A message to Albanians from Kosovo and Metohija, primarily their leaders, that it is now a historic moment to show that they are political and mature and responsible for being good conversators, and perhaps in the future partners of Belgrade and the international community. If they show, within their powers, and not small, the willingness to help the survival and return of Serbs to Kosovo, create conditions for their normal life, for a more massive return to these enclaves, which today, unfortunately, are declared insecure, will show that they have both political maturity and political wisdom, thus becoming good partners with both the international community and the official Belgrade. Finally, the most important message we send is a message to Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija. To them, the solution to this problem is of maximum importance, but they know that they are also part of that solution and that without them, without their survival and return to Kosovo and Metohija territory, there will be no good solution to this problem. So we call on them to find perhaps the last atoms of strength that, despite all the atrocities that have been committed against them, they find enough motive to remain, to have confidence in this institution and in all the institutions that come from this institution, that Serbia is concerned about them and that it is ready in one new way, not military, not police, but diplomatic offensive to try to achieve the dream of all of us, which is peaceful Kosovo and Metohija; Kosovo and Metohija, which is a good place for the lives of all, whether they are Serbs, Albanians, Turks, Muslims or some fifths; Kosovo, which will no longer be the source of the problem. For all these reasons, for all these addresses, where this message should be sent, I urge all of you to have this declaration adopted unanimously. That'll give her more power. We will not take that as a support to the Serbian government. Other sessions are intended for this topic, this is support for a good solution and I ask you to make a contribution to that solution. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2003-08-27-0.u33327	I thank the Prime Minister. The word comes from MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-08-27-0.u33328	Dear fellow MPs, Mr. Prime Minister, I had to go out for the Rules of Procedure. I've been thinking all day about getting out to advertise. Believe me, I do, but I feel uncomfortable every time I walk out of the hallway in front of this room for the number of security you've brought into this building. Article 235 clearly states under what conditions and how officials, who are authorised by the official authorities, can enter the building of the National Assembly. Permission is requested from the President of the Assembly, but they can't carry a weapon. Since the public in Serbia knows that none of you without six security guards go anywhere, give up little of these people, let them go and keep these endangered Serbs in Kosovo, and you walk freely along the streets of Belgrade, along the streets of Serbia. Go to Kosovo and Metohija, if you are the national government. Believe me, every day I walk these streets and no one has ever pointed a finger at me, I believe neither will you. Therefore, there is no room for fear. I'm just asking for the respect of the Rules of Procedure, and I'm asking for them not to be around this much here in the National Assembly building, where you're not threatened at all, you're only threatened by this pay phone, in front of these microphones. As soon as we get out there, we can have coffee, believe me, you won't miss the hair on your head. Imagine if I accidentally combed you in the hallway so that the members of your security would react. You don't know that. We're at risk.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-08-27-0.u33329	I think it was better that you decided not to answer your word because this is security, which you see, congregation security. I am responsible for their presence. If you think otherwise, you can prove otherwise, not go out here and tell lies and spread demagogy. I'm concluding a unique search. As we decided at the beginning, we will approach the vote. One amendment was submitted, and then we'll make a statement about the proposal for a declaration in general. I remind you that at the session of the Committee on Kosovo and Metohija the amendments were withdrawn by MPs Momcilo Trajkovic and VukoAntonijević. National MPs Borislav Pelevic, Dragan Markovic, Petar Petrovic, Milos Lukic and Đuro Popovic together submitted an amendment proposing that a new point 13. The government has not accepted this amendment, and the Kosovo and Metohija Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected. I am putting to vote the amendments tabled by a group of MPs to add a new point 13. For eight, against 143, 59 of the 210 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. I put to the vote a proposal for a declaration on Kosovo and Metohija in general. For 186, they did not vote 23, of the 209 MPs. I find that the National Assembly unanimously adopted the proposal for a declaration on Kosovo and Metohija. I am concluding the session of the 15th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia.
