ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-04-0.u34132	Dear fellow MPs, on behalf of the SPS, I would like to say two things. The first refers to a statement by the Prime Minister that the people who participated in a meeting with the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia are people who finance the opposition. Here, on behalf of the SPS, I'm going to say that these people don't finance the opposition and they didn't give any money, and we didn't expect it from them. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the post: He was your member. ) The fact that he is our member and is an MP of the Federal Assembly is one thing, and funding the party is another thing. Another thing I wanted to draw attention to the Assembly on behalf of the SPS, it is a replica of counterpart Branko Pavlovic's statement. The sentence reads, "The previous regime ended by shooting people in the head and throwing them into some caves on the French mountain." I don't get into the motives of the word, but I think it's monstrous and we have to absolutely run away from such generalizations. Here, I'm telling you, on behalf of the SPS, we're asking to determine who committed these and other unexplained crimes and that the state authorities, in accordance with the law, punish the guilty. Once again, we, the SPS, ask that the guilty are punished and there is no doubt about it whether our position is to punish the guilty or not. Whoever he is, he should be punished for what he did. Otherwise, if we go with such disclosures, then we can come up with very incorrect statements, something that gets an absolutely different character compared to what it is. As the government is nearing its end, the Prime Minister announced yesterday the elections, it can be said that the current regime killed the Prime Minister or the current regime has killed a senior police general. It would be incorrect to talk about it. Everyone needs to be found and punished for what they've done, whoever it is, there's no difference, the law is the same. All crimes in this country, which have been or will be, should be the subject of the work of investigative authorities, the judiciary, the court and the guilty should be punished. It's the only way we can move forward as a state.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-04-0.u34133	Right on line, MP Branko Pavlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-04-0.u34134	As far as the crime itself is concerned, the perpetrators have been arrested and will now be prosecuted. During your government, nothing was known about it and would never be arrested and processed. As for the replica of yesterday's exhibit, we have three things. One was tied to "Lafarg" and "Beocina's cement" and one to "Sartid" and "US Steel". My thesis was that in a direct contract with Lafarza, a higher price was reached, significantly higher than after the tender. I checked the data, then Prime Minister Djindjic was in May, returning from Paris, with direct negotiations with Lafarza, said Lafarz had offered 133 million marks. In the tender it was won 114.5. They were already euro, but when you recalculate that course, the difference is 18.5 million marks, it was more obtained in a direct contract than after the tender, which fully confirms my claim that the whole tender procedure was designed to bring down competition and create the possibility of all this happening. Mr. Vlahovic said "Does anyone have a bank guarantee, not on my mother's." Mr. Vlahovic, who is not here today, must be defined. He once says "a strategic partner of a large multinational company". There's no dispute that Lafarg is a large multinational company. The second time he says "to my mother." I'm sorry, when the prime minister of a country goes and talks to "Lafarz" and says they offered 133 million, then it's more serious than putting Mr. Vlahovic as many signatures as he wants on some paper. So there's no dispute at all that it was at that point like that. He's the one who turned it around. He convinced us that it was signed and over. Of course no one has a bank guarantee, because it was never signed, because it was very serious. The second thesis was about "US Steel" and "Sardid". We had this confusion between Mr. Prime Minister and Mr. Vlahovic. The prime minister said that this first contract for a year, about a year before the sale, management contract, which "US Steel" was favored, never existed. Then Mr. Vlahovic came out and said he existed. Of course there was, and of course that contract ruled out competition. Mr. Vlahovic tells us: "the consortium of banks has stopped funding", as if it were a natural disaster. That has its reasons. He was in a position to ensure continued financing and to solve walking problems. Then he says, "We didn't have anywhere to go, we had to "US Steel." It's a simple thing. There's a bigger and more serious concert than US Steel, which was also interested in buying Sartide. It was played on "US Steel" on purpose. That management contract, which is completely with impossible clauses, was supposed to go back then, a year earlier to the tender. He says, "there was no other." How do you know there was no other? Call a contract for management contract, and then you'll see that you'll get a lot more serious partners and it'll all work out completely. So the whole story was wronged to sell much cheaper, and it was supposed to sell "Sartid" and it was nothing controversial. (President: I warn you of an excessive amount of time. One more sentence. Mr. Zivkovic said something about BIA personnel. It's what you choose. You made one lapus - not the head of the BIA, but the Belgrade BIA. You choose people from the first five Jovica Stanisic, within seven years. Of course, then things will get out of hand. The other thing is that the better fit, of course, to choose from those services, can't fall from the branch, the better frame from there won't seriously cooperate with you, with this and with the previous government, because they don't trust you. That's the point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-04-0.u34135	The Prime Minister, Mr. Zoran Zivkovic, called.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-04-0.u34136	I don't want to talk about funding opposition parties, I said that yesterday, and everyone already knows that, but I'm asking you for a lot of reasons not to play with the name, function, character and part of the late prime minister. It's the worst thing that can be done, that's the bottom that a politician or someone who wants to be called a politician can say. Please, I'm not turning anybody's corpses, so I'm asking you not to do it, and there's a medical term for people who do it, psychiatricly. As for "Lafarza" and "US Steel", Pavlovic, please determine whether you want the tender to be a measure of honesty in one business or a direct offer. So, at Lafarza, now you're saying that some of your projections, what did someone once say, say 133 million marks, what? The whole program or just cash, or together with the investments, or along with the social program? You're holding on to a number that you liked at that moment for something that happened two or three years ago, and now we need to trust you to believe it's true. But the direct offer will never be the way companies will be sold in the privatisation process in this country, it never happened, and you know it best. The US Steel is not sold under the Privatization Act, but through bankruptcy proceedings. Lafarge wasn't in bankruptcy. It was a firm that worked well. "US Steel" or "Sartid" is a company that is in debt, with which the state pays a billion and several hundred million dollars in debt. I think you as a lawyer can separate those two things. I'm always in a dilemma, whether you have good intentions and do bad things, or vice versa. Please, take it with you, see what you said today. As for this Lafarza, all the big firms went to the tender, all the big companies went to the tender. The tender reached the price, if it's a small price, I've always called all of you as individuals, as representatives of some interests, some foreign companies, which is totally legal, to buy it at a lower price. If it's cheap, buy it. How come now that the world's biggest single-area concerts don't want to give any more, and you're assessing that there's someone who would give more money for it. Yesterday your thesis was for "Lafarge" that it was a government mistake because she put the customer to be someone who did this job, to have over seven million things produced. What do you want? That there are no phantom funds where who knows what money, maybe some people's money that you keep talking about as opponents of democracy, that they get into these companies? So it's just condescending. As for US Steel, I've already said, you know what the level is, he couldn't go on the tender because he was in bankruptcy, with a huge debt. He couldn't. Look at the law. Therefore, there are clear things. Again, if someone wanted to, if someone wanted to buy that US Steel today for more money, let the US Steel come in, maybe they'll buy it. Don't just create an atmosphere of dissatisfaction and the atmosphere of some semi-crime and crime when it doesn't exist. There is not a single official letter of any government in the world related to US Steel, except in our newspaper. It's not the papers, it's the statements. Representatives of the interest of these or those states are ambassadors. If you want to be a representative of a state, it's legitimate, some companies, and it's legitimate, but don't do it to Serbia's harm, especially when you get into something that has nothing to do with what you're saying. So, as far as US Steel is concerned, all documentation is open to everyone, it's a public job, and no formal objection has come, no embassy, no state, no company from the globe. Finally, BIA. You say we're setting up, now you're talking about a Belgrade centre, people who are among the first five people of Jovica Stanisic. First thing, the heads of those centers are appointed by the director. Secondly, how do you know what five people are in the first environment of Jovica Stanisic? What is this secret service, where you, as someone who has nothing to do with it, who has been a representative of democracy all along, who hasn't passed the RDB, who has no idea what that means, you know what five are there, have you read it in these books? If you've read in those books, I suggest you change the literature. There are others. You are a representative of one part of the politicians in Serbia who know everything, know who Jovica Stanisic was taking a bath with, know who his first man, second man, third man, the third man, who the weapon is, you know everything. I, from the little experience I had in that ministry, didn't become a cop or an expert on that job or a smarter one than I was before. I know for a fact that if something is serious, you and I will never know. So, please, you can talk about RDB, about BIA very critically, about saying that it's a bad legal solution, that these personnel are badly placed because they did it and that and any such criticism will be accepted. But don't let yourself become the only magma in this Serbia who knows who's first, who's second, who's third, who's Jovi's fourth man.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-04-0.u34137	Right on line, MP Branko Pavlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-04-0.u34138	It's not complicated to figure out who's near the chief of staff. The head of the first administration, the first administration in all intelligence systems, is the most important, the head of the first administration at the time is by definition the man from the nearest environment. So you have a deputy, you always have a head of Belgrade and you have a head of the first administration. That may be among the three. So it's certainly a key man from that period. It's just an illustration of the misjudgement of how it should be done with the service, which otherwise requires reforms. It's not a special secret at all, it's just a little bit of thinking, and it's all clear. As far as the tender is concerned, it's not disputed that we should go to tenders, just not put up tenders. I told you the tender was staged. You say money laundering. Money laundering is solved entirely by other models, by other models of tender procedure. When you narrow down only to those in that kind of industry, at a very high level, and at the same time you sell three cements, you're a terrible knockout of competition. The tender should lead to transparency, security and increased competition. You're bringing down the competition. Why couldn't someone who's a big cement consumer be a strategic partner? Why wouldn't a very large German construction company be? You've been avoiding it and putting it down. Why not five million? Why 7.5? I explained the tender procedure, which actually allowed the competition to go down. That's the point. At US Steel, it's a very simple thing. Just about "Sartid" and this one to get along. Not only is it possible, it's under our law and it had to go to tender and bidding. Each of these procedures, regardless of what is in the bankruptcy procedure, there is now one cover behind the bankruptcy procedure, in fact, all the time the government is behind it. Mr. Vlahovic said yesterday that they were responsible for the workers staying at work and said in fact that this bankruptcy procedure and those people there were actually just puppets. It would be interesting to see how the Belgrade court was in charge in the first place, when it belonged to Pogorevc; by what decision and how it came to the Belgrade court in the first place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-04-0.u34139	I'm warning you, time's over. The word is Mr. Prime Minister Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-04-0.u34140	That's why I'm talking about this. Otherwise, there's a much simpler way to prove what you're saying. What did you personally do to prevent a set-up of a tender, as you say, being conducted, did you file a criminal charges against someone, against a person, against a prime minister, against a minister, against anyone? No, because you know everything you're saying isn't true, but in political dialogue, you can say anything. Please, I was an MP and I consider myself a responsible man and all the MPs chosen to be serious people, whether they or not, they got that responsibility from the people and then act like one. If you think it's a crime, file a criminal report. If you think it's against the law, act so that it doesn't happen, and not today you're talking after two years if it's five million, seven million. Did you file a criminal report? No, you're an accomplice in that staged tender, if it was staged. I'm telling you, it's impossible to set up a tender. It is true that there is a selection of those who can participate in the tender. The biggest buyers of beechite cement were black merchants, wild merchants, so, according to you, they were supposed to buy that cement store. Most of the cement from Popovac and Beocin, we'll agree on that, went to the black market. What we had to do, do we find the boss's black market, so let's say, well, you're the biggest buyers. Which construction firm was involved in a tender for any cement company anywhere in the world? It doesn't exist, there's no example of that. Why are you talking about things that are fantasy, why, who, anywhere, took part in a tender that sells a company in a bankruptcy that has a billion-dollar debt and a few million dollars? It's nice to say from this pay phone, but you're a responsible and serious man and it's good for you and for Serbia it's good for you to say things that you stand behind. So, please, if you think anything is set up, that tender, any other tender, file a criminal complaint.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-04-0.u34141	You have no right to a replica. We continue the debate, he has done nothing to offend you, he has only given notice, you have no right to reply, we end the cycle of replicas, and we continue the debate according to the application of the words of the MPs who do not belong to any of the MPs. The People's Messenger Zivko Selaković has the word, and then the People's Messenger Tomislav Kitanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-04-0.u34142	The Honorable Presidency, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Vice-President of the Government, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the motion to vote for mistrust to the Government of the Republic of Serbia is clear and understandable to me, because it is quite acceptable in a democratic society, to discuss the government, and even to change the government. But it's completely unclear to me, because I haven't heard anywhere, and I haven't seen it, like this today, that two points of the agenda (and we're after each other) are discussing the trust of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and the goal is the same. Maybe that would be the best way to get to 101 and back, so who can... Dear MPs, the position of the Peasant Party of Serbia has been expressed at the beginning of work by the Serbian Parliament, when the vote for the government's election was on the agenda. Since it has been a long time since then, I will remind you that as an opposition MP, I voted in favour of the current government of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. I gave her confidence. Today, after 1000 days of working this government with certain interim changes in membership, but also with an irreparable loss from Serbia's political scene, Dr Zoran Djindjic, killed in the most playful and cowardly way, I see that I did not make a mistake when I gave my vote as an MP to this particular government. Before I explain or prove to the facts why the Peasant Party of Serbia believes that this government on our part has received a transitional assessment, I will remind fellow MPs who, in the previous session of the Serbian Parliament here in the same room, were sitting with me to support the government in making certain decisions and laws that I considered acceptable, even though I was then an MP of the opposition. Why do these MPs now resent me when I have presented objective facts at the previous agenda that Mrs Natasa Micic is performing the correct function of Parliament President, as well as what I am saying now that the current Serbian government headed by Prime Minister Zoran Zivkovic deserves attention and trust? Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we go back a little bit, when we were in a hurry to spend a salary of five to ten marks (or a few billion dinars) on the same day, because already after noon, the value was lower. Today's average salary is about 200 euros, and that's not enough for some comfortable life, giving it to a man that tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, he'll have his own stability. Do I have to remind you that in panic we ran into rows when we heard there was coffee, milk, oil, detergents, so often bread wasn't enough, and today we can sleep longer because we're sure there's all day long in enough quantities and no lines. A urban and construction chaos was created earlier, which is allowed from a variety of interests; now the Construction and Planning Act has created a single order in this area and has allowed citizens to legalise their facilities under favourable conditions and get further security so that they do not get bulldozers in their yard and destroy the facility. I don't know how much anyone will understand the importance of having citizens in so-called. Nationalised land areas can traffic, transfer the right to use other persons and build more houses for family members, because this law has been abolished so-called. The right to prevent construction, which is, to make it simple, that the owner could own 20 building plots or 10 ha of land, and he could only get one salary from three to five acres to get a building permit. As president of the Peasant Party of Serbia, by that very name, I am obliged and I want to put an emphasis on the government's great contribution, and it could have been even better, on improving agriculture and on paying particular attention to agriculture, normally within the limits of opportunities. As a member of the Committee on Agriculture, I can say responsibly that agriculture in general awaits an even better perspective headed by the recently elected agriculture minister, Mr. Stojan Jevtic. (President: I warn you of overstepping allowed time. ) Many things have been done in the field of environmental protection, and we know that this ministry was formed some time ago because at the beginning of the work of this government it was abolished. I purposely underline this because it is positive by the government and correct because it has recognised and corrected its own failures, as it is in this case. I must point out about this area the incorrect position of certain political parties and their MPs, when they removed from the agenda the adoption of environmental laws, which means that because of party interests, people can be poisoned. Can we close our eyes to the fact that everything has been done in terms of security and greater security that citizens have by the police and the military, and by the very reconstruction of these two very important institutions. I especially want to underline and stress this time as a parent that I don't have to worry about whether two sons, and many sons of many parents, will return from pointless wars alive and healthy, as I survived in the war when another Yugoslavia fell apart and this last 1999. I'm not going to say if it was supposed to or who did it, history is for that, but I can safely say, the policy led by this particular government led by Prime Minister Zoran Zivkovic, I've been relieved of that fear... (President: People's Parliament, I warn you of an excessive amount of time allowed. ) Good, though I have the right to speak on behalf of the parliamentary group for up to ten minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-04-0.u34143	I'm sorry, but you've been signed up as an MP who doesn't belong to the MP's group. You didn't send me a notice on time. If you do so during the day, you can get the word as head of the parliamentary group. The word has been made by MP Zoran Cirkovic, president of the New Serbia parliamentary group, the violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-04-0.u34144	Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs. Micic, you missed the opportunity to alert the subject who previously took this pay phone...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-04-0.u34145	I give you a notice on the basis of article 101. The Rules of Procedure, because you are obliged to address with respect all MPs. I didn't miss it. I warned him once before. The secretary told me that a new parliamentary group was formed, but I was not given a timely notice. Therefore, if delivered to me during the day, the previous MP can receive a word as president of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-04-0.u34146	So let me explain. Five months ago, I asked you if this group existed, because we found out it didn't exist. You did me the courtesy of answering me a month ago. With that answer, I met the previous speaker, that he simply doesn't exist. So he's familiar with the contents of your letter. You're saying that Serbia's parliamentary group doesn't exist, that it's falsified, and by the way, you're telling me that you're not obliged to announce that its work has stopped. After you missed it, I announce that this group does not exist, as there has never been a speaker who spoke for a moment, he spoke past the Rules of Procedure. Therefore, I ask that the scribe finds that he acted in an unspeakable capacity.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-04-0.u34147	There is no obligation under the Rules of Procedure to declare that a parliamentary group has ceased to exist, Mr Ćirkovic, and you have not listed a member you consider to have been injured. It wouldn't be bad for you to read the Rules of Procedure. The word has been made by MP Tomislav Kitanovic. It is an MP who also doesn't belong to any parliamentary group, and otherwise is in front of the SPO party.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-04-0.u34148	I really don't know how to use these five marketing minutes when you know that the Serbian Renewal Movement boycotts these presidential elections. So, regardless of what I say, we are in favour of bringing down this government and calling parliamentary elections. Police have not entered the system institutions, but one MP in the Assembly is less. One MP here, before one MP here, one there, a card there, a card here, and that's enough most of it. As the Bulgarians would say, enter Sofia, the government has saved itself and extended its life for a while. The police didn't enter the system institutions, but they're in front of the system's institutions. The police on the street, the people on the street, and they'd say what they said earlier -- everything's just gone. To make this continuity complete, I've decided to tell you a story. Maybe she's not that interesting. On October 5th, when we went back from the South Strip to our places, where some controversial incidents happened, I was afraid of being abused and some personal abuse of that situation, revenge, I don't know what. There were some broken windows, car burnings, etc. I then invited these men of the larger and smaller DOS parties, and we called the police chief and tried to encourage him to do his job, because the police had settled down, retreated and failed to perform their basic function. Then one of the leaders of those small parties said - Chief, you're free to work, we're not the same as they were before. Mile told him -- that's what they said when they came to power. From this distance, it would be said that she and this government are the same. That's why she's standing. Get Kurt off. Murth comes. So, earlier and those of today, they should leave today, and they should not come back. That this continuity is complete I will show on some examples, those that were discussed a year and a half ago in this assembly or in an interview, the murdered Prime Minister Djindjic spoke of. So this government has worked as well as the previous one in that system of power-sharing, it has given itself some of the powers beyond its powers. So she dominated the legislative and judicial authority, so she solved problems that were practically not in her work, so, for example, the issue of the federal state, or the common state, the issue of The Hague and other issues came under her jurisdiction. In addition, it is a matter of crime, a question of Kosovo and the issue of the economy, which is also the most important issue. The problems were discussed by Prime Minister Djindjic at the time. What is the continuity, and where is the similarity between the previous and current authorities regarding the common state? We had a joint state formed on the basis of the two parties' will, at the time of the SPS and Momira Bulatovic. Now we have again a state formed on the basis of the will of DS and DPS. So that hasn't changed anything. It is not a state formed on the basis of the will of the Serb and Montenegrin people, but on the basis of the interests of these parties. As far as crime is concerned, has anything changed? The murders at the time, the murders today, and even the prime minister's murder. What changed in the area of crime? Only crime from one wing went to another, from one position to another. Only positions have changed. No system decommissioning was performed either. I'm sorry we don't have a chance to talk a lot about the economy right now, which is the most important thing. The Serbian Renewal Movement advocates those important things, infrastructure development, agriculture, small and medium-sized enterprises. It's a short time, and I wouldn't want to abuse this pay phone. Just in the end, since I hear this government likes to bet, here's a suggestion. In two tenders, I'm investing in the future value that this government is going to fall very quickly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-04-0.u34149	The word has been made by the Minister of Education, Mr. Gašo Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-04-0.u34150	Mrs. Pop-Lazic mentioned some numbers yesterday, by the way. I just want to answer that, because I realized that it was, in a way, her relationship with the ministry. I know that in these budget items, there is a particularly special service item and contract service. These are two items behind which there seems to be no cover. That's why I'd like to mention what it actually belongs to, because the question of budgeting and the question of those items and their names is a matter of the Ministry of Finance. Often behind this, there is a lot of content that is covered with one or two words. As far as I know, it's not in the radical party's program to abolish the financing of extracurricular teaching. That was 48,930,000. That's an explanation. The introduction of new pilots into high school 95,500,000. The transport to Kosovo, which also comes there (not again, at least I don't know that it is, the policy of a radical party to interrupt the financing of our people in Kosovo), is 54 million dinars. So that's how you fill out that number. As for services under contract, you have a lot of things: reciprocal scholarships, co-operation with universities abroad, our lecturers in different countries and handing over Serbian language at universities, bilateral contracts. Let me tell you, we have introduced the Serbian language into Slovenian schools, so we'll get a new cost of funding our lecturer in Slovenia as a new vision, but that's why you get a new department at the Slovenian Faculty of Philology, and there is, for example, at the French schools of the Serbian language department, which I think is the goal of this society. Secondly, I don't think I'm questioning the funding of our extra education abroad, which I think needs to be stepped up and organized, and can't be lifted. It's just an explanation. Mr Kitanovic mentioned the division of power just now. There really is that division of power. We are in a position to elect a new president on 16 November and I call on everyone to choose, of course.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-04-0.u34151	I'm sorry, I've already given my word to Gordana Pop-Lazic. The minister approached the pay phone, Mrs. Pop-Lazic agreed. (Zarko Obradovic, from the place: Replica. ) Right to replica, MP Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-04-0.u34152	Thank you, Mrs. Pop-Lazic. I called to replicate a colleague who spoke about SRJ and SPS. Yes, I must say that publicly, the SPS played a major role, decisively, in the creation of the SRJ, because at the time we also considered the SRJ to be an optimal state for Serbia-Montenegro, for the peoples and citizens living in those two republics. I must say that by 1996, the SRJ had functioned like any normal state, had all those attributes that made it a common state, and that by changing within the DPS and dividing into two wings, there was one political acrobatic of Mr Djukanovic, forming a new party, and since then Yugoslavia has had some problems in functioning. That went on until the DOS arrived. We now have one practical situation, the fact that the ruling parties in Serbia-Montenegro, here DOS, and below the DPS, did not want the SRJ to continue to survive. We believe that as Mr Djukanovic is in Montenegro, the DOS here is also responsible for the collapse of the SRJ. It should be recalled, it cannot be forgotten, despite the marketing campaign, that the Belgrade Agreement and the Constitutional Charter abolished the same SRJ, that its international and legal subjectivity was abolished and a new state union of Serbia-Montenegro formed. This was done with the help and consent of the international community, or the European Union, which formally achieved their idea of abolishing Yugoslavia and creating more small states, which will be under the political and economic control of Western countries. Serbia-Montenegro relations are worse than ever. There is no need for great proof: two coins, customs, non-compliance, etc. This best speaks, unfortunately, of the quality of relations between the ruling political structures, the DPS and the DOS, today's associates and today's allies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-04-0.u34153	The word has a national MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, the proposing official.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-04-0.u34154	Dear fellow Members of the People, although I have unlimited time and an advantage always to report and to say what I have on the agenda, which is right, of course, they have ministers, but it is my turn to end the cycle of replicas, if there are, and then to give the word to the ministers and to me, as a representative of the promoter, so I have allowed that, even though I called before Minister Gaša Knezevic for a word, warning the president of the National Assembly that he still has to take care of some order, Mr Obradovic speaks before me. I see today in a daily magazine, and I was so pleasantly surprised that all the reasons why we are asking for a vote of no confidence in this government, and at least in the proposal we have turned to crime, although the crime of this government has been proven very much, in many books, now one party and one minister of government are again charging power. It is a party that now calls itself the Liberals of Serbia, which is the New Democracy, which has always been in power, except as radicals were in power. In a letter to the Council, and they think of the Anti-Corruption Council, Liberals, among other things, said Dinkic confirmed at the opening of the National Savings Bank that the state belonged to 50% of the bank's ownership, but that it was never realised and that the state in that bank had, as a result of the abuse, only a minimum percentage of 12%. Whose abuses only the Serbian government. He has here directly accused the Serbian government. This is where we should get a response from the prime minister as to why the state of Serbia at the National Savings Bank instead of 50% came to the 12% share of the state-owned capital. So, we didn't invent anything from the opposition, this is what the minister of police knew, if he knew, the question of where he'd been. So it's his responsibility that he kept quiet for three years. When Dinkic entered the National Bank with long pipes, Mihajlovic knew it and opposed it, they said, and then kept quiet for three years. Here, and now shut up and do nothing. Perhaps he will answer all that, since Dinkic has now decided to deal with Mihajlovic and some conflict of interest that exists or does not exist, it is likely that the courts will prove what Minister Mihajlovic, as a member of the government and as a businessman, is doing. I am surprised, indeed, that Minister Mihajlovic is not reading these books issued by the SRS. Here, this is one book called "Laufer Tells Me", there are pictures of Vesic, Pitic, Canak, Batic, Covic, Mihajlović, and here is Ceda, and Dinkic is present Prime Minister Zivkovic and many others. And it's all good in them. You know, in time, Mihajlovic promised a public reward if someone provided him with information that could lead to the discovery of the perpetrators of three crimes, which is the murder of Pavel Bulatovic, Gavrilovic and Stojcic. Vojislav Seselj provided him with everything he had regarding those three murders, of course reliable data obtained from the D.B. Service. Don't think this Lawfer is made up. Laufer is sitting here in our O.R. Laufer's from DB, and that's all the data that Minister Mihajlovic knows are true. He owes us 450,000 euros. There is still this dispute before the court, and we hope that it will end up in our favor and that the state will give us that 450,000, because if the minister as the highest civil servant promises it, he is bound by it, and we are convinced that we will get that money before this campaign for parliamentary elections, that we can do the little campaign more modernly than we do now, going from town to town in two cars, holding the rallys. Today is usually a rally in Kosovo Mitrovica. Unfortunately, Tomislav Nikolic did not allow UNMIK to come to Kosovo Mitrovica because he says he cannot guarantee his security, and nowhere is Tomislav Nikolic safer than in Kosovo Mitrovica. Others have gone, the rally will be held, will be as glorious as ever, and again, the number of votes Tomislav Nikolic will get among Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija will certainly be 90%. All these books, and this last one we betrayed, and if you remember the murder of Pavle Bulatovic, after the Survey Committee which was formed in the Federal Assembly and where it was clearly shown who Maka is and who is Cane Frog, and who is Cepter and what they are all involved in, all of these books are in fact proof that one criminal authority is involved. We're not accusing you of being criminal either, but you're just accusing yourself of being involved in crime. That's what citizens recognize, that's what they feel quite well and that's what hurts them the most and they don't want a criminal government. That's the biggest reason you're going to fall. You may be able to explain to the citizens that there was nothing more you could do in the social sphere, that so many people had to lose their jobs, and if you didn't have to, but you can't explain it to them... Maybe Zoran Zivkovic is right when he claims it's impossible to set up a tender or bid. He doesn't know, it goes past him, that's what this other team does. The money goes past him. His fingers are hollow, the money is taken by others, but in his surroundings. I will read to you only one part of this book since 6 June 2001: "In a conversation with Serbian Government Minister Goran Pitic, my operational relationship finds out that, among other things, on issues at the health ministry, Zoran Djindjic said yesterday that he had no influence on the choice of Obren Joksimovic and added -- he was proposed by the DSS and that is their influence and responsibility. In his statement, Djindjic also distances himself from several more of his ministers, as he says - for everything but him (Joksimovic), Gasa Knezevic, Vladan Batic and Dragan Vesenov, I answer because they were my choice. Whose others they were, we really don't know, because when that government was formed, and this is the government of continuity, the late Zoran Djindjic proposed to us restoring ministers. I don't know if Zoran Zivkovic can report on this today, given that he talks all the time about the Continuity Government and submits a report for 1000 days of government work. Commenting on Djindjic's final sentence, Pitic points out that she is the least incorrectly speaking, because he says -- it is possible that the head of the DOS parliamentary assembly in the republican parliament is accusing Serbian radicals only because they were in a coalition government with the SPS and the JUL, while his boss says he is not responsible as prime minister for the government's actions. So, gentlemen "yellow," now you need to give some answers to some of the questions that have been asked. Yesterday, a vice president of the government, Zarko Korac, filed a health report. He may be as resolute vice president in charge of monitoring all medical flows, but he obviously has many other duties, and among other things he should report here on what they've come up with investigating the circumstances under which the Prime Minister was killed. That is what this parliament is interested in and that is why we are asking for the government's resignation, because it is impossible for Korac to investigate it, to come to certain conclusions, and not to inform the public and parliament about it. We need that report here because you didn't let us form a commission here that would come up with the truth. Let's give these tapes that exist once, and they say there are 11 tapes from Schiller's, so we can all look at them together, and we can come to some conclusions ourselves, I suppose, both true and better than those that Zarko Korać came to. As for some insinuations that I am presenting some untruths, especially from Minister Vlahovic, I must say that we are really overwhelmed by the faxes that are coming, but because of the rationality of this debate, I am not able to deal with any concrete enterprise. And it is on the soul of Mr. Knezevic, who is headed by the commission to discuss all these privatisation complaints, and he has not filed here any report on why the 800 have not been resolved. The denials from the company "Conoplja" again give evidence that Vlahovic was telling the lie, then PD "Ratkovo", an Apatian brewery, where minority shareholders were damaged by consortiums and brokerage agencies. From the "Colubare" comes an interesting fax that says so -- the union of Kolubara -- surface copies -- warned the management, as well as the Serbian Ministry, the Serbian Government, MPs in the Serbian Parliament, and the citizenship of the extremely alarming situation that is currently on surface spears. You haven't heard of our demands, you've already referred us to the Ministry of Mining and Energy. We have no one to negotiate with, because the minister is gone, I guess we all know that. In a situation where winter is on the threshold, you simply go over our appeals to talk to some competent person about the price of work, an annex to a collective contract, and it has never happened before that the workers of the spears had not gone to medical rehabilitation at the end of November. Which is why, it is best to ask your Minister Milovanovic, because only he knows the answer to that question. We demand an urgent conversation from you before your trip to China, and if you fail to comply with this request, we will be forced to suspend the work on the surface spears of the Colubara. The Kolubara Union's organisation -- surface copies, the president's signature. In that and such a mine of surface spears, this current deputy minister you refer to, which you point to to them to talk to, and once the deputy director of that same mine, here for September his salary is 150,000 dinars. That's what the workers know, and that's what the workers sent us. They're his receipts. And, the "Independence", metal unions, the Grand Union of Metals "Independence", has sent extensive documentation to MP clubs that paints character and work, since it is still in fashion here to talk about character and work, and those people also accept the Lightmotive, Minister of the Government of the Republic of Serbia Dragan Milovanovic, the current Minister of Labour and Employment. The document says the way Dragan Milovanovic threw 12 IMT workers out on the street, as chairman of the IMT Management Board. "In the press known as the tractorist, machine locksmith, host, programmer, nephew, Dragan Milovanovic abuses his function. Twelve of my colleagues, an IMT worker, have only one sin, which is that they have their own head, that they are honorable workers and that they are not ready to obey Dragan Milovanovic. The MPs, they pray, "Run this case. These are ordinary citizens, workers, fathers, they are the ones who chose you with great expectations." So you failed the expectations of the workers. It's absolutely clear and it doesn't even have to prove it anymore. Believe me, we're as disappointed as all these workers, even though we knew a lot about you, but we expected that the results of this government would be much greater than they actually are. As for all that Mr. Gašo Knezevic made in his lecture report, I do not want to look beyond that, because we have two requests for a vote of no confidence to this minister. Unfortunately, by abuse of authority by the president of the assembly, this has never come to the agenda and we never talked about it. You have received the material and you are familiar with the material, and parents now have the opportunity and opportunity to get acquainted with the devastating education policy led by Gašo Knezevic, which leads to the deanification of the population, especially young generations, children who are yet to be educated, above all, in a national spirit. What you were saying about donations, Mr. Minister, do you know how you get a donation? By giving you conditions, like, at this school in the village of Deep. You heard it, that's the one where you make that sour water, which a young Miss from Nisha advertises. There's a German flag at school. The condition is: we'll give you money, but there must be a German flag at school. That's what you do with programs. That's what's wrong, that's what leaves the terrible consequences and that's what hurts the citizens very much, because they can't explain to children what you did in the first-class barn or what they can't learn from Him and what the reasons are that He doesn't learn from Him. You say you can't, but that's what we were saying, that it's not good for you to form not knowing how many commissions you're going to be dealing with without some central control. Take a look at the French language textbook for the third grade of high school, and you'll see what kind of texts these are. What do they lead to? Exactly what we don't want, and that's killing everything that's national in our youth. It's so perfiduous that it's just astounding. First of all, unusually difficult texts are obviously well thought out and inserted to make our children completely lose their sense of being a member of the nation. If one presidential candidate, Dragoljub Micunovic, doesn't know what the Serbian flag looks like and other children have to watch foreign flags at their schools, then I don't know what we can expect.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-04-0.u34155	The word is made by the Deputy Prime Minister Mr. Zarko Korac, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-04-0.u34156	Dear Mrs Pop-Lazic, the commission formed by the government of the Republic of Serbia had its clear mandate. She submitted her report to whoever named it, which is the government of the Republic of Serbia. The board had seven members, so I wasn't there alone, there were six other people. Two police colonels, security experts, is a senior BIA official, you had one judge of the Constitutional Court, the secretary of the justice ministry and one representative of an NGO. So seven different people. The Commission wrote its report and the report is public. In that report, I want to remind you, there are very strong claims about the late prime minister's security system. I would like to say this, for the sake of the public and for all MPs: everything anyone has said to the Commission has been recorded and typed. It's one huge material and that material hasn't disappeared. He exists in that file. No one should worry. We wrote our report, and the government decided on it and, for some reason, to protect people who were in front of the Commission, it did not even put a list of people who witnessed it. By the way, as far as I'm concerned, my recommendation was to publish both. There's no secret, and it all exists as documentation. I wish we didn't have a bid about it. It's possible that we as humans missed something to see, there's such a possibility. We had a desire to question that security system. All I have to say is that there are a lot of documents sent to us by the former RDB, the current BIA and military security. So there are documents that are, by their character, a high-level state secret. So, the way BIA works, the way it works, etc. I doubt any state would do this to the public, but as far as I'm concerned, the list of people who were conversing and what you insist on, what they said to the Commission, can also be public. We, as the Commission, seven of us unanimously signed it, agreed on it. That's what we saw as failures in the security system. Our commission wasn't involved in the act of murder, because there's no legal right. It's the subject of an investigation and now a trial. We were just talking about the security system. I think anyone who only enters the government site of the Republic of Serbia can see the report that is there and has been translated into foreign language and can also be read by strangers, there are our estimates of what didn't work in the security system. So, we haven't, like, denied anything, the seven of us, and how could we if there was an accompanying file? If we did something wrong, other people will come, they'll be able to read what we've been doing, and they can call back those people we've called, talk to them again. Maybe they'll see something we haven't seen. I never thought in my life that what I found was absolute and the only truth, but according to our conscience and our knowledge, we wrote what we found in that security system. I have to say, that security system had a malfunction.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-04-0.u34157	Replication rights, MP Bojan Pajtic, president of the DOS parliamentary group - Serbia's Reform.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-04-0.u34158	The respected chairman, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, for the sake of the public, not the Serbian German flag, but when the German government gives a donation, it is essential to put a board where it says who is a donor, especially because about half a million Serbs are working in that Germany, and by doing so, and they have been educated here and here spent some budget funds, both they and how they contribute to restoring German schools and there contribute to increasing population standards. While you were in power, the Germans were sending us bombs, and now they're helping rebuild schools. I don't think that's any issue. As for Mr Nikolic's salary, I received information that his salary was about 60,000 dinars, and that the 150,000 dinars management defined in the name of a 500 million dinar savings for the past year. So while you and your coalition partners left this country somewhere between $150 billion and $200 billion, through different wars, through bombings, through hyperinflation, Mr. Nikolic saved some money, so he received 90,000 dinars once.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-04-0.u34159	Right on the line, MP dean mihail.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-04-0.u34160	Since Obren Joksimovic was mentioned again, I would like that story to be finished, the story of the health ministry. Here's the thing: yesterday I mentioned that in July 2001 there were various government conclusions and the government's college. According to the Health Protection Act, it is responsible for the procurement of medicines by the Ministry of Health, where it is said: "Organization, procedure and way of doing the jobs of the joint medical supply of medicines, medical supplies and medical equipment of health institutions operating in state property is carried out by the Ministry of Health". In accordance with its legal powers, the ministry, while being led by Obren Joksimovic, adopted a Regulation on the joint medical supply of medical institutions on July 5, 2001, which was set out by the Health Protection Act. That's where the tenders were scheduled, how to get the drugs. Afterwards, the Serbian government's counterpart and Vice-President Zarko Korac signed an act under the number 02-515-8358/2001 act on 16 August 2001. of 16 August 2001. In point 2 of that act, the Ministry of Health and Environmental Protection shall be deprived of the powers provided for by the Health Protection Act and, contrary to that law, of the Republic Health Insurance Office to carry out the priority procurement of medicinal products at the most favourable prices from domestic producers until the end of the tender. The Korać Act amends the Health Protection Act. The trade occurs on the same day as the government's session, under the same number under which the government's College's conclusion, was adopted a conclusion that was in agreement with the Health Protection Act, and this conclusion was signed by then Deputy Prime Minister Momcilo Perisic. So, under the same number, we have the conclusion of the government's college, which signifies Zarko Korac and which requires that the Health Protection Act be violated and the same day the conclusion of the Serbian government, which is the only one that is full, which requires the implementation of the Health Protection Act, as provided for by the Ministry and the regulation on the purchase of medicines. That's not the end of it. The Ministry of Health and Environment reported to the government on 23 August 2001 that the RZZO does not apply the government's conclusion that it is required to respect the conclusion and apply the regulation, but applies the conclusion of the College of Government signed by Zarko Korac and which is contrary to the Health Protection Act. That's where we come to what I'm talking about, that we have two different conclusions under the same number. One is the conclusion of the government's college, one is the government's conclusion. One was signed by Zarko Korac, and one was signed by Momcilo Perisic, then Deputy Prime Minister. What was the purpose of this? The aim of this was to buy from ICN Galenika medicines that they had on the lager, which are not drugs that fall under the protection provided by the state and are not prescription drugs, but some medicines that are not necessary, which should have been resolved by Galenika. Then we come to the situation that we have two different conclusions, by the same number, one signed by Zarko Korać, the conclusion of the college, one signed by the government and Momcilo Perisic... (President: I warn you of overstepping allowed time. ....................................................................................................... But the Republic Health Protection Office, we talked about who's at the head of the Bureau, we talked about who's the deputy director of the Institute at the time and now, and we're getting into a situation where violations of the law get drugs from the ICN Galenika just to get rid of the supplies. Who got what we don't know, but the fact is that after that, Obren Joksimovic, the then minister, asked for a resolution (which is in his jurisdiction) of the Health Protection Institute, but it didn't happen, because he probably did business for some clubs in the government and in this way probably did something good to someone, but certainly it wasn't legal. One of the reasons Mr Joksimovic's resignations is precisely because the disagreement.... (President: Second warning for timeout. ....................................................................................................... Government and... I'm done.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-04-0.u34161	The right to replicate, MP Zoran Krasic, the authorised representative of the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-04-0.u34162	It is simply necessary to respond to these attempts to reverse the debate over the government's trust and responsibility. It's really not appropriate for someone to come out for a pay phone and say -- while you were in power from the Germans we were getting bombs, and when we came to power comes donations. Mrs Pop-Lazic has made a kind of metaphor in terms of education programmes and donations, not so much because of flags but to point out the shortcomings in our educational programmes. But as we open the subject of bombs and donations, we have to remind both the MPs and our viewers and our voters -- the bombs have been dropping, and DOS has brought to power the very group that bombed this country. Of course, it gives some minimum donations to avoid the debate on compensation for damages, debt exists, it is obvious, the whole world has condemned this aggression and, of course, it has to be a little clouded by the eyes and the public in Serbia with some donations, so as not to raise the issue of responsibility for war crimes. The most important issue these days on the agenda of the National Assembly is neither economic, social, political, unfortunately, nor national issues, when it comes to DOS. None of them expected, nor hoped, that they would make some better moves. The main topic of today's debate is the fight against organised crime. DOS is a political group that represents a child of organised crime, which has accumulated in the 1990s, which from here on out, no matter what kind of organisation and kind of paradigm and metaphor of organised crime, is that organized crime has finally won its power. Thus, Cane frogac is an official representative of the government of the Republic of Serbia in talks with the BAT. That's how it happens that a man with a collar comes from Capca, and with one bag and buys the shares of a big company, and after a few months, it's known that it's another criminal, under another pseudonym. It's these businessmen, that's what you've allowed the Semafian assets to wash off through privatisation in another way and to have these people wash their conscience and blood-earned money. That's what Serbian citizens see, they see that you're a product of organised crime, and in Serbia they're not talking these days -- good morning, good day, but -- when they're going to leave. That's why we're here to help you get out of here as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-04-0.u34163	Replication rights, MP Zoran Angelkovic, and Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia Mr. Zarko Korac.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-04-0.u34164	Mr. Pittice... (Milka Marinkovic, from place: Please. Milka, you've been replaced, you're no longer on the agenda, so I didn't call you. When I call you, you answer it. It wasn't just the Germans sending us bombs, or the Germans sending us bombs, but it was sending us NATO. But to clarify one thing: the Germans sent bombs to us on several occasions, and in World War II, and that's why you were probably the day before yesterday, when Schroeder was coming to the federal government, they covered up that mosaic on which it was seen that the Germans were down on the floor, not the Germans, but the Wehrmachts, killed, lying on the floor; so that it would not be seen, then you put the blue curtain. Remember what happened until the day before yesterday where the press conference was held in the federal government, and what happened the day before yesterday, when Schroeder came. The blue curtain, I guess you're ashamed of the NOB. But Mr. Zivkovic said yesterday that he had been having a hard time all day seeing that head cut off. I hope it was hard for Mr. Pitiæ too when he saw that head. It's just, if it's been hard for him and if he realizes he's had a hard time and the KLA members cut off that head, then what he said today is the last insolence. That means that this child was supposed to be killed, which means that those heads were supposed to be cut off and that we didn't have to defend those people and that it didn't matter that we were defending these people, it mattered that they bombed us. It is true, therefore, that we were sent bombs, and you, as Tim Marshall said in the book "The Shadows Game," were sending money to come to power, to tell you that they were right to drop bombs on this people. They were wrong, I guess, because they banished 1,200 people, killed 1,200 people and kidnapped 1,200 and expelled 350,000. I guess that people should have been defended, I guess you would have defended that people, and I guess today they would have defended them if they cut off their heads and killed in Kosovo and Metohija. So that's what this is about, and it's not about whether they were sending bombs or not. Of course they were sending bombs, just why were they sending bombs? Because he defended the people.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-04-0.u34165	The word is made by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-04-0.u34166	I don't mean to be a part of these replicas, but unfortunately, you're making me do it, and the absence of the head of the parliamentary group you spoke to has made me call. I don't think those World War II topics are interesting anymore. The people of Serbia took their stand for World War II. We've taken our stand on World War II. No one said anything bad about NOB, and the Germans as aggressors, we said what we had to say over the past 50 years. My father was part of World War II, he's a wartime military invalid, I know it from my family, so don't tell us. Thousands of people who have been killed, who have disappeared, cut off their heads, are proof that you have not protected Serbian citizens in Kosovo and Metohija. That didn't happen after October 5th. It's terrible that ever happened, it's not your fault that Albanian terrorists cut off someone's head, but you're so guilty that you've created conditions that they exist, that those in Serbia's territory, which was not at the time under protection, slaughtering Serbian citizens of Serbian origin. It's not a matter of day-to-day political transfer, it's the death of this people and it's a dark part of Serbian history. That part of history is over on October 5th, you can't transfer it to us. We have no one else's money here since any crime, and it will remain that way as long as there are Serbs who think seriously, who think democratically, who think domestically, who think European, and these are people who have defined themselves as the Democratic Party and other DOS parties [[Zoran Krasic looks for a replica from the site.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-04-0.u34167	You have no right to a replica. National MP Zoran Krasic is asking for the right to replication. You don't have the right to a replica, look at the stenogram, he didn't mention you, not the SRS, not you by your name, you don't have the right to a replica. He didn't say a word - the former regime, he spoke, so... National MP Zoran Krasic throws out of the bench, look at the stenogram, I listen carefully to what anyone does, the direct address was - you made it happen and it was addressing the MP who spoke before him, not to you. Based on the recognition of such a species, I do not allow you a replica, because I have not heard the presentation of Mr. Zoran Zivkovic's Prime Minister. The word is made by Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Zarko Korac.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-04-0.u34168	Since Mr. Michael, the MP, showed some papers, it would be my turn to see those papers, though, he dictated a number, I'll try to find out what the government is about. However, he opened one question that I will ask for the Republic Health Protection Institute to be made known in writing, that is whether during the time Mr. Obren Joksimovic was the minister there was any plan to obtain medicines from the health ministry. I assure you, and this will be witnessed by the people who worked at the Ministry at the time, that there was no plan to obtain drugs and that the drugs were bought by the eye and the terrible supplies of unnecessary drugs were created. If there was room here for these insinuations that you've just had, hopefully not for me, I'm leaving it to the public to assess why, maybe it was just incompetence, and maybe it was something else. In this situation, bring in subspatial measures until the time when tenders, public procurement and drug procurement plans are not introduced, which, as you see now, mostly works quite well. So, the government cannot be accused that in terms of the supply of drugs, the health ministry and former Minister Tomica Milosavljevic are leading some policy that leads to the accumulation of some unnecessary medicines. Let me just say one last thing, I don't know why it came down here as a terrible accusation that someone was getting cures from Galenika, as you say, ICN. I must warn you, and I hope that you support us in this, finally and we have supported the position and previous authorities, that Galenika is the majority property of the Serbian state. This state is conducting a dispute before arbitration in Paris, she thinks she's a majority owner, I'm personally convinced of that based on the documentation I've seen. So we're running a dispute and we want to get the factory back, to be owned by the Republic of Serbia. I am sure, and the next government will run the same policy, because it is the property of Serbian citizens. So, I'm going back, I'm going to, Mr. Michael, answer you now with facts, this is just my first replica, I can't go any further, I remember what it was about. It was that Mr. Obren Joksimovic had no real plan of getting drugs in his ministry, and if you want to open some topics from that period, I'm afraid there will be some issues, as I would say, that could and otherwise look for this speaker.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-04-0.u34169	The word is made by MP Dejan Mihajlov, the right to replicate the presentation of the Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-04-0.u34170	We don't run away from opening a topic, no matter how much you say, insinuations are painful for us, if any of these issues are opened and we don't run away from it. Let's open up everything, after all, Serbian citizens have the right to know what's going on and who's doing what. Everyone has to account for the citizens of Serbia as well as what he did and we don't run away from it. If Obren Joksimovic was doing something bad at the ministry, he should also take political responsibility for it and the DSS that proposed him. We don't run away from it, I think that rule should be brought to life, such as the former regime, the SPS and the SRS held responsible for what they did on 5 October and 24 September 2000. It's just like that and you can't get away from it. Mr. Obren Joksimovic adopted a Regulation on the joint medical supply of health institutions on July 5, 2001, which was set out by the Health Protection Act. According to the Regulation, drug needs and medical equipment are planned as monthly, quarterly, semi-annual or annual plans at the level of the Republic of Serbia and, exceptionally, if needed, some medicines can be obtained beyond these plans. That's what the fact is. Mr. Joksimovic is the only one who has implemented the Law. What's the problem, that's whether you, then as Deputy Prime Minister or College, signed that conclusion to a college that was the opposite of the government's conclusion, here, I'm going to dictate the number again, says Act 02 No. 515-8358/2001 of 16 August 2001. So it's an act, you'll see that there is, if you don't, we'll give you the conclusion of the government's college under that number and the government's conclusion under that number. The College of Government is an informal body which has no authority, according to the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Government, or under the Government Act to make appropriate decisions, i.e. binding decisions. The government is an organ whose conclusions are mandatory, with the government legally and by the constitution as an executive body implementing the laws. So the government can't change the laws either, and the government has done it legally in this case, it has reached a conclusion that is in accordance with the law, but the government's College in 2001, while Mr. Zivkovic was not the Prime Minister, of course, reached a conclusion that is contrary to the law. Worse still, the Republic Health Insurance Fund has reached the conclusion of a government college that is contrary to the law, which has allowed drugs from the ICN Galenika stockpiles, which it could not get rid of, past the plan. Now, that's what the fact is, and I'll deliver you to the afternoon section of this conclusion if you don't find them in the government.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-04-0.u34171	National MP Zoran Krasic is looking for a replica, what is the basis for a replica? The SRS, if she'd taken responsibility, don't you agree with the fact that you didn't take responsibility? The right to reply, MP Zoran Krasic, authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary group to present MP Dejan Mihajlov.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-04-0.u34172	Of course you have to give the replica, because there are some inaccuracies, and there's something that's in conflict with the notor truth. Of course we do not bear any responsibility, we have always claimed that Galenika is a clear object, but the problem is that in the Government of the Republic of Serbia there is one minister, or Minister Batic, who fell in with a weapon in October 2000, won Galenika as legal representative Milan Panic; now we see this pounding, and now this new government says: "Gallenika" is ours, a controversial privatisation. Of course, there are other inaccuracies. It says here that the previous regime created conditions for the emergence of terrorism in Kosovo and Metohija. Of course, that's not true. The whole world knows it's not true.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-04-0.u34173	People's MP, please do not abuse the right to replication. You have received a replica of the presentation of the People's MP, Dean Michael. Consult the stenogram. In no sentence did he mention terrorism or Kosovo or Metohija. I ask you all to stick to the Rules of Procedure's provisions and complete your replica of the presentation of the People's MP, Dean Michael.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-04-0.u34174	Mrs. Comic, the incursion of an armed group of people in Galenika, the incursion of an armed group of people in Carin, the National Bank of Yugoslavia, the burning of the Federal Assembly, the burning of Serbian Radio-Television is about something that is the paradigm of your October 5th. It's the zeroth date since democracy started, according to you, in Serbia. I'm talking about just that it is a terrorist act similar to those acts of terrorism that happen in Kosovo and Metohija. For Kosovo and Metohija, this government uses the term "extremists". Now they start calling them terrorists. Solve the question of these extremists of ours, these terrorists of ours who are now in power. And since Mr. Korać finally read the book in which we described the Galenika case, I recommend that both him and the other members of the government read our other books. There is a solution to all the problems they have and what people have. That's why I went out on this replica, to point out that it's hard to talk from this pay phone about something that is in conflict with the notor truth and with the common facts. No media manipulation, not even a prank can change the picture, because you know it's not a good morning anymore, but -- when you're leaving.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-04-0.u34175	The word has a minister in the government, Mr. Gašo Knezevic, followed by Minister Dragan Domazet.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-04-0.u34176	I'd like to clear up something that was mentioned today in Mrs. Pop-Lazic's presentation. I have nothing to do with any privatisation committee, absolutely no connection, because there is no, as far as I know, commission. I don't have anything to do with it. My function, which interferes here, is public procurement and there is a procedure and there will be an amendment to the Law on Public Procurement, and the Commission has not functioned because the other two members of the Commission, of five, were Mrs Kori Udovicki and Mr Tomica Milosavljevic. For justifiable reasons, I think you'll understand, the commission couldn't function after they left the government. If someone kicks someone out of the teacher's program it'll be just the Serbs, not the Ministry, because they're making a program for Serbian language, and my information is that they won't do it. A bunch like that can't be thrown out of anything. Finally, I repeat that we cannot create a program according to which Serbian source is some knowledgeable foreign source. So to create a program means that learning about Einstein would mean actually learning only about Mileva Marić, who is his right hand, which has contributed greatly to him, but you will allow Mr Einstein to have some contribution to creating a theory of relativity.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-04-0.u34177	The word has a minister in the government of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Dragan Domazet. If there is no replica, after him the word has been passed by MP Petar Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-04-0.u34178	Madam President-in-Office, honourable Members of Parliament, today I am here to present to you the work and results of the Ministry for which I am responsible, because one of the parliamentary groups has expressed dissatisfaction with the work of the Government and as a responsible man for a part of the work of the Government, I would like to inform you, as representatives of the people, what we have done, what we have not done and what are the results. At the beginning of the term of office, we found in the Ministry the situation that there was no open project, and as known through scientific and research projects, scientific and research work is financed exclusively. Obviously, we had to introduce very urgent measures, parallel to work on reorganising the ministry's work and with the plan of all future activities. To that end, we set up a work plan for the next four years, which has two phases. In the first phase, which we call recovery, the recovery phase of scientific and research work, we planned to restore projects, expand them, introduce a series of newspapers that I'm going to talk about, and restore the pride of scientists in this country and restore their status that they lost in the late 1990s. In this regard, we have prepared new competitions, prepared and completed a new competition, and all projects have started since 1 January 2002. The second stage, which we think is even more important, is now under way and is planned for 2003 and 2004. It is a phase of reforming the scientific and research system in Serbia. We worked in the course of 2003 on the concept of reform, on the preparation of political and strategic documents and in the final line on the preparation of the law on scientific and research work, which is now in the form of a showcase on public discussion. For the next year, the realisation of this reform is planned, the implementation of the law, and if we look at today's plan, which we adopted in February 2001, I can be pleased to realize that we are sticking to this plan and that we are on that side fully in the terms that he predicted. A lot has been said here in the sense that nothing has been done. This morning it was said that there were no changes, that they replaced the same ones, etc. I will point out what changes took place compared to the year 2000, which precedes our coming to power, in the research and development portfolio. In 2000, the Ministry of Science and Technology spent all its research work in Serbia on 708m dinars. I will list the figures that are invested in research and development in 2001, 2002 and which are now being invested in 2003, close. In 2001, a billion and 163 million were invested, two billion and 550 million dinars were invested in 2002, and this year there is a realisation of a financial plan that envisions spending of 3 billion and 970 million. If we look at this year and 2000, you see that's an increase of 5.6 times. If we calculate inflation in this period, we see that this is a multiple increase in R & D investment, although we live in very difficult economic circumstances and opportunities and it is not easy to separate for this activity. If you ask me if I'm happy with this, I'll openly tell you that I'm not. It is that we have invested more than five times since 2000, but it is, by our estimates, about three times less than it should be. There is a consensus with us, as in Europe, that each country should separate around 1% of the social product for research and development, because research and development provide the future and technological independence of a nation. Now, relatively speaking, we separate three times less. We have an increase plan, we have a plan to reach that magic figure of 1% of the social product by 2007, and every year we will continue as we have done in the previous three years, increasing the separation for science. There are often criticisms that there is no change regarding scientific and research activity, that there is still difficulty living and that wages are low. Like I said, wages are small, but they're much bigger than they were. I'll give you two information. The researcher intern at the institute, meaning beginner, received a salary from the ministry of 2.992 dinars in 2000, and today, the last payment in September was at a level of 14.048 dinars. That's about four times what it was in 2000 and about three times more if we refuse the effects of inflation. If we look at the most experienced, the best researchers at scientific advisor level, in 2000 their income from the Ministry's fund was at a level of 5.555 dinars, and today there are 25,083 dinars. But we don't stop there. The next payment for October will be increased by 3%, and the December payment will be 15%. This means that, de facto, in January, researchers will have an even 18.45% higher income on our projects. If we look at it again in 2000, because in January we round the three-year cycle, it's 5.3 times that. We can look back a little bit, just the part that invested in direct research. I'd like to remind you, in 1999, this country invested 365 million for research and development projects, in 2000, 561, 2002, when our projects started to work 1,662,000 and 2003 in 2,294,000. Obviously, the research and development sector has improved the material position and status of researchers. More is invested in projects that lead to new results. But that's not all. Now I'm going to give you the information that will show you that we invested in an area that wasn't invested in 2000, as well as in 1999. It is an investment in scientific and research infrastructure, and by this I mean laboratory equipment, computer equipment, equipment and adaptation of laboratory space etc. We managed for these two and a half years to invest 923m euros or about 13.6m euros for these purposes. It was neither in 2000 nor in 1999. That's our priority. We're not gonna stop there. According to our plan, in the coming years, we plan a minimum of 10m euros each year to invest in laboratory, computer and other equipment. If you don't have the instruments, if you don't have the devices to work, you can't create. So they're not all paying, it's much more important to have conditions for good research, in line with world quality criteria. In that sense, we managed to buy for the needs of researchers about 5.5 thousand computers, and you don't have a researcher who doesn't have a computer today. That's what we've invested 240 million dinars in. We've invested in local computer networks for 51 scientific organizations, and we've invested about 60 million dinars. We're particularly proud of a computer network that connects all scientific institutions, where about 53 million dinars have been invested. For the purchase of laboratory equipment, 442m dinars or about sixm euros were invested. For the first time, after 200 years, the funds were allocated to repair existing laboratory equipment and for these purposes this ministry invested 31 million dinars, so we recovered the old equipment and it is being used today. 98 million were invested in the construction or adaptation of the lab space. In this way, it has been achieved that we have somewhat more decent working conditions today, but we don't stop there. Just over the next ten days, the ministry will issue a payment order for one million euros for the purchase of new equipment for the nanotechnology laboratory, for the purposes of the Vinca Institute. Next year we plan for the Vinca lab another 2m euros. Also, we plan to buy low-price equipment for about a million euros over the next few months. In this way, the equipment has already arrived at 78 institutes or colleges and is made up of about 140 independent devices. I will especially introduce you to the development of information technologies in this area. As is known, you cannot deal with many things today, especially research, if you are not well equipped with information and information devices that enable you to have access to information. As I've already said, in addition to buying 5,000 computers, we've all connected them within buildings containing institutes and colleges, which is 51 buildings. We put these buildings together in the so-called so-called building. The academic network of Serbia, which existed, and here we seem to have made the biggest breakthroughs. In 2000, the speed of the academic network was several megabits per second. Today we have connected university centers with one gigabit per second, which is an increase of hundreds of times. The relationship with abroad was four megabits, and today it's 70 and something megabits per second. With the "Telecom" contract, we have reached a very special arrangement, we have bought the right to use "Telecoma" optical fibers, and right now we are making one ring around Serbia that connects not only the main university centres, such as Belgrade, Novi Sad, Kragujevac and Nis, but also other smaller cities where colleges are located, such as Cačak, Užice, Kruševac, Bor and others. It will be one ring that will have that speed of one gigabit, which is the speeds that now exist in the countries of Europe. We'll keep going, because only the good speed of the network allows good access. We're investing 60 million dinars in equipment that makes that possible right now. In this way, we have prepared the conditions that every researcher can access the information. What information? First thing the researcher does, he's looking for information on what other researchers are doing. In that sense, they can access through their computer today a unique system run by the National Library of Serbia, which allows for access to eight thousand electronic magazines in full text. You can read any work from eight thousand magazines on your screen. Do you know how many such magazines were in 2000? Zero. Do you know how many were in paper? Zero. We haven't bought scientific magazines in three years because of a lack of funds. In addition, we are today buying about 590 paper magazines, in a unique way, to save and rationalise we have implemented a system of unique procurement for the needs of all scientific libraries in Serbia, in order to save money. In addition, in order for this database of electronic magazines to be used within the library circle, we bought about 352 computers this year for library purposes, 277, of which in the small scientific libraries of the faculty and institutes, 15 at the University Library in Nis, 20 in Belgrade, 10 in Kragujevac, five in the university information centre and 20 in the library of the Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts. In addition, we also obtained computers for the Serbian Matica library. We work among these areas of information technologies, so-called information technologies. Research and development projects, and in this sense there are 51 research projects in the field of information and electronics, involving 687 researchers. In the area of industrial software and machinery, we have the funding of 68 projects with 732 researchers. It's not the ministry's duty just to provide material conditions for the researcher's work. We must also prepare the laws, make changes to this country's legislation, and in this area there is a law on electronic signature, and it is today in the National Assembly, waiting for the order to come before this respected home. I hope you will support it, because it is a prerequisite for electronic business, which means that citizens can submit various submissions to the ministries and others and that they are signed by electronic signature and that it guarantees the authenticity of the document. This is necessary in order to be able to modernise the state administration that needs to serve citizens, to be a service that will enable all processes that are related to the submissions that citizens are putting in place to move faster. This is also a prerequisite for our companies to apply electronic business, electronic banking, because it guarantees the authenticity of those people who send electronic messages. I've already mentioned a scientific and educational network or an academic network in the jargon. So far, she has been co-ordinating between the world's accounting centres that exist in Serbia. We have proposed, and today it is also in the Assembly, the law on the Agency for Scientific Research and Educational Computer Network of Serbia, which is to perform this public service for the needs of the scientific and research public in Serbia; a legal person who needs to contribute to the further development of the computer network, to maintain its services, etc. And I hope this esteemed home accepts this bill when the time comes for your plea. Together with experts, we are now preparing a data protection law. A large part of the ministry's activity was dedicated and so on. legalization of software. Legalization of software is inevitable. We can understand that in the 1990s pirate versions had to be applied, but if we want to go to Europe, if we want to bring foreign companies, we have to provide them with an environment that protects their intellectual property, and protects our intellectual property, because we don't just want to sell meat, wood, processing, we want to sell both smart and software, and we have to protect our software manufacturers. In that sense, measures were taken and I think the Ministry of Culture worked most. It led to the fight against piracy, a group was formed to work on it and to change the law and the Criminal Law, so it was sanctioned. I think the biggest activity in this area in my ministry's portfolio was related to the realisation of the strategic contract, signed by the Serbian government with Microsoft. As you know, by signing the contract we bought the right to legalize 30,000 licenses, for 'vindous' operating systems, for Microsoft office information systems, and we also received a donation from Microsoft, 50,000 licences for the needs of universities, schools, scientific and research organisations and libraries. We have done one big job, legalisation; first of all, in the state administration, it has been replaced practically 30,000 licenses with legal licences and it is a great effort and today Serbia is seen as an example of how software legalisation programmes should be solved in a peaceful and legal way. This is why Serbia has been removed today from the list of countries where software piracy is present. We're no longer on that list of 60 countries that exist in the world, and we're proud of that. Without it, it is difficult to motivate foreign investors to invest in the information industry here and it is one of the preconditions for creating the environment for European integration that we want to do. One of our priorities in these two and a half years, 1,000 days, was the field of young researchers, and we worked in this part especially with great enthusiasm, because we believe that young people are our future, and in this sense we have taken a number of measures that should improve their status. I almost saw on TV a press conference for a group I welcome, and it is an appeal to businessmen to help our young talents, high school students who won first place in international knowledge Olympics. It's probably not known to the public that for years, it's not us, that's what the previous ministries have been doing, and I don't want to single out our Ministry of Originality, and that's one history, in the far line and the future, scholarships every student who wins one of the first three places in the international knowledge Olympics. The scholarship, which is now at the level of about 6,000, is awarded until the student and later the student graduates. So that usually takes seven, eight years. Currently about 73 students enjoy this scholarship and we will continue to spread it. Also, the Ministry of Science, Technology and Development wants the most talented graduates to keep them in this country, to study further, to master, to doctor, to get employed at university, institutes or in business. In this sense, every year we call a competition for several hundred scholarships, which are offered to students who meet strict conditions, and the average is nine or more, or 8.5 for technical and technological sciences, to receive these scholarships and thus to be materially provided during their postgraduate training. The Serbian government has decided to free such scholarships from fees. Unfortunately, we have remained in debt to universities for these purposes, but there is an agreement and a decision to pay that debt to universities in the coming period. Also, 60 million dinars were distributed from extraprofit revenues a year ago to the best students in postgraduate studies, PhDs, and they depended on whether they work master's or doctoral work once received 20,000, or 30,000 dinars. So we transferred the extraprofitor's money to our future, i.e. These best young people who are now studying sciences to take responsibility tomorrow for the management of the economy and society in this country. We also help the students of master's studies to prepare master's dissertation, and those who prepare doctoral dissertation; they use this one-time help to prepare the text itself, and that's about every year about the cost that we have, 15,000 to 18,000 dinars per dissertation is given for these purposes. As for investment in scholarships, here's how it grows, and to what extent we give meaning to this thing. In 2001, we allocated 7.2 million dinars for scholarships; in 2002, 22.7 million; this year 82.2 million. The next year we plan 111 million for these purposes because we believe in these young people, most often not written about, because they are our future. In that sense, we have made a decision, and I use this payphone to announce to them that October scholarships will be increased: students will receive 9,000 dinars, magistrates will receive a scholarship of 16,000 dinars, and those who do PhDs are 18,000. I need to introduce you to an activity that's not written about. In the last year, in an emergency procedure, we have managed to employ for a certain time, while projects are going on, about 500 young researchers. They're working at science institutes and colleges today. If you know that about 2,000 researchers are employed in institutes, you see that it's one large part, 25% of the capacity has been rejuvenated in the last year, so we're preparing a fit for the future, because we think that the number of researchers in this country has to grow, so that we have something to offer the world in five to six years, when the effects of their work feel our industry. This ministry is not working for its mandate, this ministry is working for the future. I believe that the next ministries will do so, and therefore we have a 10-year plan, what should be done to meet the standards needed, investment in research and development in 2010 in order to be able to join the European Union. This standard says: 3% of gross social product, a combination of budget funds and economic resources. The standard says we need to be "furnished" by young researchers, and it is our job to direct them to those areas where the maximum effects for the economy and society in Serbia can be achieved. To stop the so-called. The brain drain, or the most talented people who graduate, we've taken a number of measures. What I've been saying so far is only one part of the measures that have been taken. In order for someone to stay and represent the quality that needs to be kept, we must, first, create better working conditions. As I said, first is the availability of scientific literature and I think we've fulfilled it. Today our researchers have access to all information, scientific information, and abroad, they have access to other scientific laboratories via fast internet, they don't have to be isolated, as they were. Today, our young researchers and older ones can participate in European projects and projects of international co-operation, which, unfortunately, could not have been done in the 1990s. They're open doors. Each of them can go to the European Union website, look for a part relating to research and development, look for a part that applies to young researchers and submits its application directly. He will, if he meets the requirements, receive a scholarship to spend two to three years at European centres. Most importantly, that's what we've been looking for and the European Union has accepted, it's a feedback option. So if you go to work in the best lab in Europe for two years, third year at your institute, at your university in Serbia, but you continue to receive a scholarship from abroad. We asked for it and the European Union accepted it, to motivate our researchers to return. Normally, they won't come back so easily if they find empty labs. That's why we're investing these funds in the equipment of science labs, and that's what I said we'll continue. 11.3m euros have been invested, we will invest every year, hopefully, a minimum of 10m euros in the equipment of scientific laboratories. That's the difference, if we compare ourselves to the previous period, when, unfortunately, nothing is invested. Do you know how many university teachers had on projects in 2000? That was a level of 700-800 dinars. Today they receive between 15,000 and 18,000, less than at the institutes, because they also have income from the teaching area. It's a much more important shift than other data show. In addition to investing in working conditions, we also invest in the living conditions of young people who are involved in research and development. I can be pleased today to realize that yesterday in Nis the construction of 112 apartments, in which the Ministry invested, was built through the construction directorate for the needs of the University of Nis, young people at the University of Nis. I can say that 81 apartments in Belgrade, on block 32, are finished, that another part of that 81 apartment building is currently being built, and that we are planning two other buildings in Belgrade for the next year, on the move of block 32, each of 136 apartments. This means a new 353 apartment in Belgrade next year, in addition to these 81, as far as it is finished. That's why we're gonna make an ad next week. I can announce to researchers in Belgrade and artists who have the right to participate that the ad will cover 157 apartments and conditions under which an exceptional loan can be obtained. What is this extraordinary loan? The next decision by the Serbian government is the following: 40-year repayment, 10% participation, annual interest 0.5%. Such credit conditions can't even be obtained in the west. These are exceptional credit conditions and this is our investment in the future of Serbia and young researchers. We will continue this every year, and it is part of the plan to stop the mind drain from Serbia and try to keep them. Not only do we keep them, but also keep those who have left or attract to return or cooperate with them and include them in our research system. In that sense, we have already changed the rules and today our researchers, wherever they are in the world, can participate in our projects. Normally, we don't pay for their participation and they don't ask for it, because they have a completely different level of reception there and they're happy to work with our researchers. It's one link we built. We're preparing for next year one program to give 10 to 20 of the best young researchers who have gone and doctored abroad, achieve good results, try to recover, give them good laboratory conditions, good housing conditions and attract them to return. Also, we plan to change the status of young people working in Belgrade as a master and doctoral dissertation, and they are from within the country. We don't think they're in a fair position compared to the Belgraders, who still have some sort of accommodation. Practically, their entire salary goes to rent. We will make a program to make minimum 50 of the best and most endangered young researchers (and there would be more if we had more money, and that depends on you, when you adopt the Budget Law), we pay about 200 euros a month so that they can pay the rent. However, we must develop a struggle for young people to build their future. For this reason, we will help to develop entrepreneurship in young people, so that they can employ themselves. In that sense, we invest in innovation centres, where they will learn how to build a professional life, get an additional professional education, and we will invest in so-called. Construction of technological incubators, which will enable them to form their businesses in protected conditions, so that they employ themselves and that we reduce the risk of investing in it. So people who complete their master and doctoral dissertation will try to convert what they created, probably one part of them, into one product or service that they will place on the market. You don't need to be passive and wait. This country has opportunities, there are young people who can do it, but we need to encourage them to develop their entrepreneurial spirit and apply their ideas and try to employ themselves. In that sense, it will certainly help these measures that we have implemented. I hope that young people will recognize that they now have a ministry that takes care of them and that they will remain in this country. I guarantee that's the way it's gonna be. I will meet you, honourable MPs, and with international co-operation led by the Ministry of Science, Technology and Development. We have had quite intense activity, especially for the first two years of international activity, because we have found a situation that is unacceptable in research. It is unacceptable for our researchers to be isolated; the last thing is the isolation of scientists. Scientists, by nature things, have to exchange information, have to communicate, have to work together. It wasn't all about sanctions in the last ten years of JJ's life. We've launched, along with neighbouring countries, a series of activities. We have managed to fight so that today our scientific researchers can participate in European Union projects. They, although not financially participating, can participate in these projects and they are already participating in the first competitions. I have to commend all those researchers who, in difficult and competitive conditions, have managed to get the project. Today, we have received projects that will bring about three million euros from Brussels into this country. This has been earned by our researchers by their proposals, by their original ideas, by their authority, by the publication of scientific works in the country and abroad, and this shows that Europe recognizes us in this area, to represent one potential. We opened the channel, they'll, I'm sure, use it. Also, we have been accepted into several European associations. First, in the "Cost" association that enables the exchange of scientists in Europe and today our scientists travel across Europe. We, as a ministry, finance these paths on which they exchange ideas about new projects with their colleagues abroad. Last June, I went personally to sign the Eureka Association's accession card in Greece. It is a European association that brings together not only research organisations, but also companies, which force industrial development. We already have more projects in this area and we will have a lot more in the future, because we want our businesses and European businesses together to develop new products competitive for the international market. There's no better way than if you're developing world-wide products together with big companies. This channel makes it possible and we will try to give the maximum in that sense. I'm going to introduce you, too, to projects done at the Ministry, as you know, projects can be from the field of fundamental research and development research. Since January 2002, about a thousand projects of one type and another have been launched, and in particular in the field of basic or fundamental research, we currently have 576 projects involving 6,745 researchers. So 6,745 researchers tied their fate to these projects and these are people with the greatest knowledge this Serbia has. Normally, we've also introduced some newspapers, although a much bigger newspaper will perform next year. One of these papers is the application of international reviews, because we wanted to compare ourselves with the world. We know we're behind, but let's see, because when someone writes a review, they advise what you need to improve to meet international standards. We're a small country, it's hard to do an internal review in a small environment, because you're either involved in a project, or you love or you hate someone, it's simply hard to achieve objectivity. That's why we've introduced foreign reviews, and that's the first time this ministry has ever done that. We learned that, and there were mistakes, and it was a mistake that we didn't have enough reviewers, and it's a short time to organize it, so some reviews were badly done, but I promise that next year's mistakes will be removed. There will be no project that will not have at least three international reviews, and we will include also domestic reviewers. What we have significantly improved, and what is a considerable burden on my ministry's work, is monitoring the realisation of projects. It was common before to give some project money and pro forms to look for after a year a report, that's how it goes year after year. We're a newspaper newspaper here. Every three months, every project manager has to report in a certain form. There's an officer who's following it. And not only that, we want to raise the quality of these people, so we are now hiring masters and doctors of science, so that they can understand the essence of the project and be equal in the discussion with project managers, so that they can take care of how that dinar is spent. We're not happy with that either. We are now for each project in the phase of recruiting reviewers, constant reviewers who will constantly monitor and be paid monthly for it, although symbolically, to monitor these projects and monitor their implementation, to study three-month reports, especially annual reports. So we have to have that feedback, that control, that we know for every penny that it's invested in the right way. We had our first check in January and 7% of the projects were shut down. Next January, we will have a second anniversary of these projects. We expect, because there was more time to generate results, that the number of projects that will be suspended might be double as well, because we set increasingly difficult criteria, to know that the money that this country is making for research and development is meant for the best, for those who achieve results, and not just promise. Normally, individuals may criticize us for this, but if we don't have enough resources to focus them on the best, and they need to be given as much as possible and the better the conditions for them to work. And that's our policy. But it's not politics and our mission just to please scientists and researchers. We are, above all, also responsible for our citizens, towards you who represent citizens and we want to direct Serbia's mind, the research public, to deal with those areas that can contribute to the development of this society, these economies, these economies and the growth of the country's gross social product. That is why, in future, we will be significantly more active in directing projects and research programmes in line with the national scientific and development priorities we are working on now. Therefore, budget money will not be given to researchers in institutes and projects, which do not focus their research in line with the country's priority interests. On the other hand, we have 308 projects called technological development. These are projects that work together with industry, with industrial enterprises. Industrial companies should participate with a minimum of 20% of the cost of implementing these projects, in order to ensure that these projects and the results achieved by these projects are implemented. In this sense, about 3,208 researchers participate, part of them work in industrial enterprises, and we expect to gradually produce products that will bear future exports of this country. In our follow-up strategy, this segment will be more rapidly developed, because Serbia has no competitive power, no products that it can export. These projects need to make that happen, and they won't be able to do it tomorrow. It can only be in two, three and over years. However, there are already very positive results. I'll give you one example. For example, the Intel Institute has developed microwave links, which today in Telekom Serbia cover 85% of the mobile phone connection. So if you have 064 numbers, today Telekom Serbia covers 85% of the mobile phone connection, know that in 85% of the cases you use devices that were developed and produced here in Belgrade, at the Intel Institute. They are now at 155 megabytes per second and I also thank Telekom for the understanding of domestic development and continue to provide them with support, because we finance these development jobs and we are the only country in the Balkans that has its own communications industry in the area. You know that in this area, big companies in the world are doing great competition and that there are few countries today that are on this technological level that can deal with them. We, fortunately, have managed to maintain these measures and have more companies that can deal equally with international giants. It's often thought that the Ministry of Science and Technology is engaged in some abstract science, something that only serves to be published in scientific journals, at scientific conferences, but it's not just that. The paper in the ministry's work is that it has introduced so-called national development programmes. Each nation has its own national programme and its own national problem. We have a lot of problems, we've singled out a few. The first one's a power problem. You know how it was at the end of the 1990s, we have a power shortage and what have we done? We have established that Serbia can produce absolutely enough energy and it is now visible because there are no more shortages, because the capacities are there. And why is there no power? Not just because the system's unreliable, so it turns out, there's haiarium, there's a lot of losses. We have identified all losses from source to end-user, hired experts and set up a so-called national energy efficiency programme. This programme covers a number of projects in different areas that allow us to apply, not our own, but foreign technologies, and here they are being checked, demonstrated, implemented, learned how to apply, demonstrate and other measures that will later be applied by the Ministry of Energy and should help reduce energy losses everywhere. Energy losses are very high with us, and that is how we achieve great impacts in the future in the reduction. I can tell you that the strategic goal of this national energy efficiency programme is to increase energy efficiency by 20%. So, we lose 20% of our energy needlessly, because we don't use modern technologies in production, in transmission, in industry, in households, in heating, etc. This is how we want to make our contribution to the development of the economy in this country. Also, the goal is to increase the use of renewable energy sources from 1.5% to 4.5%. We want to meet this European environmental standards. The strategic objectives, the general objectives of this programme - reliable energy supply, reduction of energy and energy imports, preservation of domestic energy resources, reduction of specific energy consumption per product unit to increase the competitive capacity of the economy in the domestic and foreign markets. Today our products, both in transport and in energy, are burdened with the great energy invested in these products and we cannot achieve international competitiveness unless we reduce transport costs in the part of logistics if we do not reduce energy participation in the production of each product. There are also a number of other things, there is environmental pollution which is very present and there is the Ministry of Environmental Protection, but we finance all scientific projects that are in the field of research, including in those areas where other ministries are responsible. We also finance a number of projects in this area, and all in a desire to meet the relevant standards. We want to reduce electricity consumption by using waste biomass, we want to reduce transmission losses, we want to reduce industrial losses, and that's why there are a series of projects. For example, for energy efficiency projects in industry there are 27 projects and one study. For the program of energy efficiency of municipal systems, you know that water lines consume a large amount of energy, because there are a lot of pumps, there are 14 projects and one study. We want to win equipment production and fuel preparation to replace electricity for heating. Not everyone in Belgrade has remote heating. Many small places are heated either by electricity, coal, or wood. We want to eliminate the power, and that's the most expensive element, but we need to offer an alternative. You can't just tell a citizen - don't use electricity; you have to give him the fuel he can use, and we're developing new equipment, new fuel elements that will be so packed that you don't have to have coal, or the basement, but you're using it and supplying yourself, like today with butan-gas, and with biomass, pellets or briquettes that your system distributes. The energy efficiency programme in electricity production is also in the realization phase. Here we have 12 projects and two studies. The energy efficiency programme in the transmission and distribution of electricity - we have 12 projects and three studies. We have a program of energy efficiency of construction facilities -- ten projects and two studies. Our buildings are not energy efficient, we lose a lot of energy not only on windows, but also on walls and because of the way they are designed, turned around and how they are used. These are huge possibilities that this country has, normally, no results come overnight, I've already told you that this ministry is facing the future, we want more and faster results now, but some results by nature things will come in four, five or more years. We are also preparing new projects to use wind energy, small hydropower plants, so-called fuel cells that are the engine of the future, how to use biodiesel and bioethanol. In addition to the energy efficiency project, there is another national programme that is very important, and I think it is okay to get to know the responsible representatives of this people, because I often hear that there is dissatisfaction in the area of agriculture, etc. Our ministry has launched a national programme for biotechnology and agriculture and we finance 65 projects in this area and there are seven development programmes. In this way we want to develop not semi-sales, but agricultural products of a final form of processing that can be exported, competitively, to foreign markets, sold in foreign self-services, in which there is a lot of knowledge, and that of citizens. Why? Because then the price of exports is much better, the profit is significantly higher. Instead of exporting corn, we want to export corn products. You know, there are about 360 products of corn that work in the world, they're partly done with us, but we want to raise it, the more products of that kind of processing, and we're proud of the institutes and in Novi Sad, Belgrade, Zemun and colleges that have experts who do and have developed it. At the last agricultural fair in Novi Sad, the first results were presented and will soon be demonstrated, a logo sign of these products is being created, and we will have one program that is not only a research character, but is uniting primary production, research and development, product production, logistics, there is distribution abroad, storage. So, a whole chain is bound to gradually become an exporter of such agricultural products, not raw materials, because there are no quotas, there you compete with yourself flat and there you achieve maximum profits. It's our little effort within the limits of the budget we have. We hope that by increasing the budget in the coming years, they will be able to invest more in these things. A third national programme that deserves attention -- you know that Serbia, like many countries, has a unfortunately water problem, drinking waters, waste water. We're running a national program now. 31 projects have been reported and we have a directory working on it, and projects have been identified in which these projects will be implemented. It's our little contribution to that area, what we think we should do. What the MPs of this assembly need to be informed about is another area, another problem. This is the problem of nuclear waste located in the area of the Vinca Institute. I can tell you that we've done a lot of work here and done a lot, and there's a lot more to be done. As you know, there's a warehouse of low and mid-radioactive waste, there's a gathering of radioactive thunderbolts coming off buildings, there's a collection of waste materials from hospitals and from all other sources and warehouses. It's a special accommodation of spent nuclear fuel from the nuclear reactor, and that's another problem. There are currently two hangars in the territory of Vince: an old hangar built in 1967 and filled in 1985. It houses 3,500 metal barrels and 300 plastic barrels. Unfortunately, the contents of these barrels are unknown, which shows that the responsible people at the time did not keep a good record of what was inside. The new hangar was built in 1985 and it currently has about 1,500 metal barrels and has room for about 2,000 more. Also, there are four underground tanks and are all under the regular annual control of the International Atomic Energy Agency in Vienna. All the measurements taken in the territory next to those hangars show that radioactivity is within normal limits and that there is no, according to the reports I receive, no danger. The problem, however, is that it is a temporary solution. It's going to be a problem in five or six years with that fuel, because the old hangar's got a lot of coordinates and mines we want the problem to make us do something, rather than make us solve that problem. We have already planned for next year a temporary new hangar in which all the contents of these two hangars will be transferred and stored until the problem of permanent storage of low and medium-radiactive waste in Serbia, which we will work on in collaboration with experts. Serbia must solve its nuclear waste problem and we will solve it. We won't delay it, regardless of possible criticism, for the next generation, and that's our responsibility. As for highly radioactive nuclear waste from the nuclear reactor, he, as you know, stopped working in 1984 and was released in 1959. He was put out of power in 1984 to modernise and raise the level of security, as he exceeded his life cycle of safe and safe use. So we didn't lock him up. That was almost 19 years ago. Unfortunately, all activities related to the modernisation of the reactor ended in 1990 with sanctions from the European Union, the United States and other countries, and without the assistance of the International Nuclear Energy Agency, we were unable to move forward. On this basis, it was concluded that the nuclear reactor was not to be exceeded or renewed and the funds were to be saved, to be invested in other research programmes in Vinci. Then we asked ourselves what to do with the legacy, what to do with spent fuel in a water pool, in special kegs, what to do with a nuclear reactor where there are parts that are radioactive, and we were looking for a solution. These are the most difficult problems today that all countries that have a nuclear reactor face. It's a very expensive and technically complex thing, unlike the previous ministers, I started solving the problem with my associates. We started to solve by first providing initial funds, and we provided the initial funds by achieving, after a long stretch of at least six months of very difficult negotiations with US government representatives, to deliver untapped nuclear fuel to Russia for processing and storage. It was a radioactive 80% uranium, from which they could, by any chance or by accident, come into the wrong hands, make two atomic bombs, and we, because we don't need it for the reactor, sent it to Russia for processing. If we hadn't done that, we'd have to do it by international conventions to reduce the rate of uranium participation from 80% to 20% and that would have cost this country three to four million dollars. Instead of paying, we made money. How much did we make? We made $700,000 from the U.S. government, from an NGO in the U.S. Five million. Then we attracted the funds of the International Nuclear Research Agency in Vienna and provided $10.3 million in total with their funds. We didn't have that money, that money the international community gave us to help solve nuclear fuel problems in Vinci. That's not enough, because we don't know exactly how much is enough, because the studies are in the design phase. That's how we started to solve it, and I can give you very detailed information at this session about all the projects we're funding and I can introduce you to what projects they are. The first is the safety of spent fuel, which provides about 300,000 euros. It's a preliminary feasibility study of spent fuel management and costs $60,000. Initial planning of the reactor commission - $51,500, procurement of gamma spectrometers for an active sample analysis - $129,300. It's a very expensive device, as you can see, we didn't invest the money, it was the European agency that gave us to buy. That project is being done this year. The second project is a project for the management and safety of radioactive waste management. That's where NTI invested $300,000. It provides for work on the strategy for handling and reprocessing and new storage organisation, feasibility study for improving or relaunching low-radioactive waste storage facilities, then the acquisition of portable gamma and beta-radiation detection equipment, the acquisition of numerical alpha and beta-radiation systems, the acquisition of a portable multi-channel analyser, the acquisition of equipment for the treatment of liquid radioactive waste. That's what I'm investing in this year, and it's sinking to me than the international community, $300,000. There are several projects that are funded jointly by the International Agency and the NTI, a non-governmental American organization. If it wasn't for a $5,000 donation, the International Agency wouldn't have funded this. Money attracts each other's money. It's the first project to secure the removal of lubricated fuel from the reactor, and it develops a monitoring system for radiation, for the handling of irradiated fuel, and for the preparation of new containers. The project brings $4052,000 to this country. It's been planned for four years. The second project is the decommissioning of reactors and the project's value is 1,100,000 dinars, out of which 450,000 gave the agency and 650,000 NTI. This would unmount the reactor and remove all radioactive components by protecting the environment. The third program is a safe handling of low-radio waste. That's what $3.30,000 is for. That gives the agency $530,000, and the NTI $2.6 million. Besides these projects, which bring a lot of money to this country to solve our national problems, there are two other projects: the removal of the "Era" reactor and the improvement of the control process and the safe removal of a certain source of radiation. Therefore, this government and this ministry have begun to address the inherited problem. Others put it under the carpet, and we put that carpet away and said, there's a problem, let everyone criticize us if we did it, but we think we deserve it if we don't criticise, praise. We simply began to solve the problem that has been created for years and has not solved. It's provided $10.3 million from foreign funds. We are now taking measures and are just expecting a group of Russian experts to carry out the measurement and analysis and therefore we are starting negotiations with the Russian Federation that the spent nuclear fuel now in Vinca is being transferred, processed and stored in the Russian Federation. We will finally see how much that price will be, and then we will organise a special donor conference to raise additional funds, because what we have now is not enough and we expect both European Union and US and other countries that can help us and who have expressed their desire to do so. It is not the Ministry's task just to finance research and development activities, infrastructure development, etc. It is our task, as you saw in phase 2, to work on reforming the research system and in that part we are trying to prepare all the elements for this reform. In that sense, in the last year we have prepared a series of strategic documents expressing government and ministry policy in this area. I will quote them: Serbia's economic development strategy by 2010 in five books, Serbia's scientific and technological development policy of December 2002, a document entitled "the material position of scientific and research work in Serbia and a proposal for measures to improve the situation". It'll be at the government session next week. Then, the proposal for a concept of transformation of the Institute in Vinca, the concept of scientific and research work at the university, is our proposal to the Ministry of Education on the preparation of the law on higher education. Then, the development of the concept of a law on scientific and research activity that we did and handed over to the public discussion on 2 August this year; the draft law on scientific and research work, which was made, and it was from the other day, from Monday, on a public discussion and you can see it on the Ministry's website. We're also working on preparing a new law, which is called the Innovation System Act. We have specifically created a document that shows the concept of including scientific and research activity in Serbia in the European Research Area. A document called "The Scientific and Technological Innovation Policy of the Republic of Serbia", a proposal for an innovation system concept, a national innovation system, a concept and a law in the area, a draft law on the innovation system, which is now under preparation. As I have already said, we have proposed a law on electronic signature and it has been adopted by the government and is located in this respected home, as well as a bill on the Agency for Scientific and Educational Computer Network. As you can see, in addition to all these current tasks, funding different programs, solving problems, and some times over-ambitious goals, given the conditions in which the Ministry works, with relatively tight space, very weak funding of people, equipment that is not at the level of need, we managed to maintain the entire system. I would especially draw attention, since it was here in your opening statement that this government does not have a strategy and a vision of development. I have to meet you, this government has it, and next week this government will adopt that strategy. That strategy wasn't made by the Ministry. We have coordinated and the most professional people in this country, about 300 people from research institutions, universities and businesses, have worked on this strategy. She's in two books. In addition, a proposal has been made for 55 development programmes. They identify those areas where experts expect the greatest effects for foreign and domestic investment in our economy. It was also given in English to offer foreign investors. It's one of the methods of implementation of the strategy. A CD has been created that has all these documents and I can deliver to you if you want, and you can find all those documents on our ministry's website, because, as we know, our ministry is doing everything public and all our results and mistakes are on that website. All the information we put and change daily is available, so this information is also available. What does this strategy actually offer? The strategy offers a development model for Serbia, open to international competition, globalisation, with the development of competitive products in certain areas. The 21st sector of the economy has been analysed and thus we have identified, within the framework of the 21st industrial branch, which are programmes that could potentially pull the development of this Serbia. This is the basis for us now, in the next step, to make a strategy for scientific and technological research. Research should serve the development needs of this country, not to meet personal ambitions or occupations of individual researchers. This gives us one solid basis for making national priorities in the field of research, so that we can channel the money we invest in research work into those areas that are needed for the development of the economy and for the development of public services, health, state administration, so that an ordinary citizen can feel the effects of all these investments. It is not just our goal to satisfy researchers, our goal is to meet the needs of citizens and to provide them with good services by the government, quick data processing, and thus enable them to be satisfied with their quality of life. The aim of this strategy is, firstly, to contribute to the further growth of the social product of Serbia's economy, to encourage the development of export-oriented enterprises and programmes, to develop and encourage the development of our potential and change of the economic structure and to attract foreign investors for these programmes that are set out here. In the end, I'd like to introduce you to a strategic document that is actually a basis for a new law that will be in front of you very soon. We shared that bill on the Science Committee. I hope that the Committee will organise a meeting very soon, at which we will discuss this law together. Otherwise, by the way, I would like to commend my cooperation with the Committee of the National Assembly in the field of science. We've had more meetings. These were very fruitful discussions. I'm pleased to find out that I couldn't see who's from which party, simply, this area doesn't tolerate partying and I'm pleased to say that we have very good co-operation with that committee and we'll have safe and future. The new scientific and technological and innovation policy represents a radical break with current practice. As you know, in the late 1990s, the strategy was a survival strategy, maintaining scientific and research resources as well. What little money to share with researchers and not ask them much what they're doing, it's only important to survive. Maybe it was the only strategy at the time. However, we are turning to a much more ambitious and development strategy. It's not just about the money, it's about the direction in which our research should move. The objectives of our proposed scientific and technological innovation policy are: firstly, the development of an innovative society where knowledge and the development of innovation will be a key factor in economic development. We have to start economic development, but it's not just an investment. You must have a product developed with modern technologies, with new ideas, with innovations and innovations embedded in this product that will be competitive in international markets. Therefore, the second objective is to develop a national innovation system that should encourage the development of innovative products, which should ensure the international competitiveness of our economy. It is not today’s goal to produce a product that one is already producing and on which it is successful. Our goal, as small countries, is to identify those products that have the original idea within them, that have knowledge and where we can first appear. Let's make it one product change in the world, but that's what we're offering, and that's where we expect maximum products. We can't, like China, start producing large series, large numbers, so we have to base ourselves on the creation and originality of our people. Fortunately, we have this potential, I believe in that potential, and I want political and active measures to further develop that potential. The goal is to obtain a competitive and usable research result. Not every result is usable and not every research result is useful. We want to have as many useful and useful research results as possible. We want to develop a oriented economy, an industry that must reduce this imbalance of trade exports and imports to abroad. It is our job to achieve this by developing our own products, by combining and applying other people's technologies in an original way or by developing domestic technological solutions where we can. However, in order to create this, we need to create one stimulating environment for innovation development, which means that it is not enough to have an idea about a new product, we need to develop companies that are able to produce these products and launch them into the international market. In this respect, we are developing the concept of developing new small businesses and in this sense we are preparing a series of measures and newspapers for next year, and one of the basic newspapers is that companies can participate in the development of these companies. The dominant subject of the new policy is developmental research, knowledge transfer and technology and the development of the incentive environment, which I was talking about developing innovation. What's new is that we want development projects to be implemented in industrial enterprises for industry purposes and to encourage search for research results and to provide services to universities and institutes based on market requirements, not on the decision of the minister who needs to do what. It is therefore very important to define national development priorities and define the conditions under which the economy will receive incentives for development projects. Normally, we don't want to give up fundamental research, because there's no house without good foundations, it's not possible to build from the roof. Therefore, we must continue to encourage the best researchers to do fundamental research, and in this sense we have developed a program on how to do this. In that sense, we want to strengthen fundamental research at the university, and those institutes that want to do so must be part of the university. Not just researchers doing research, but best researchers doing doctoral studies and creating a new research chamber. There's the concept of scientific and national institutes as works of the university, and it's the subject of a new law and it's one of the papers we're doing. Normally, all research must be targeted, including basic research, in line with national priorities. What we want, is to programmeally unite research -- basic, applied and developmental, in line with national priorities, but it is very important, especially in basic research, to achieve international standards that are very clear in this area and we want to consistently apply the future. We want to finance development projects in businesses and the new law, as you will see, that allows. So far, our law has prevented us from giving the company money to develop a new product. It's nowhere in Europe, it's been in Serbia so far. They won't even be with us anymore. We will have enough money to help industrial enterprises that have export-oriented programmes that have a lot of innovation and we want to change our country's export profile. Normally, realisation requires a number of new instruments, mechanisms, institutions, and in this direction we have already begun to realize the development of innovation centres in colleges. We plan, when conditions are met, scientific and technological parks that should attract foreign companies in this area as well. One measure is the venture capital funds for the start-up company and there we have good co-operation with the Ministry of Economy and we will jointly prepare a special programme for start-up companies since the new year, so they get appropriate help in forming their businesses. We are preparing a special programme to encourage the development of innovative products in industry to achieve international competitiveness; this is what all countries do, and I don't see why we can't do it within the limits of available resources. And finally, it is very important to restore the trust of the scientific and research community. I'm happy to find out that I've found the truth of empty laboratories, half the number of researchers, but those who remain, many among them, are well-respected and high-quality researchers whose country is proud. I am proud to run a sector that has such researchers, and I am proud that they have managed to provide European projects, and this shows that our potentials in this area are very high. We want to introduce a series of newspapers into funding this area. So far, we've funded project expectations. In addition, we will finance the results that will be particularly rewarded; we will also fund institutions dealing with fundamental research, and institutionally. We will define strategic research programmes and we will give them a task, not them, what they should do in accordance with national research priorities, and we will institutionally pay and thus put it in one system to make it more efficient and useful. It is a special measure of decentralisation, regionalisation of research policy. Under the new law, 20% of the Fund's funding for scientific research is planned for regional projects, the construction of scientific and research infrastructures in regions and the development of personnel. That's how we want the part that doesn't have to be centralized on a local level, but on the principle of co-financing. For every local environment that's willing to invest certain funds, we'll, in principle, invest in a dinar and develop a local environment. Serbia cannot be concentrated only in Belgrade, Serbia cannot be only in Belgrade, and it is not, and we want to develop potentials where they exist without forcing Serbia's mind as a left-handed person to enter Belgrade alone. So that's the policy we're up for, and we're going to do it next year, either before or after the election. In this sense, we want to develop a system that will improve the efficiency of all resources and human resources, and in this sense I have a lot of confidence in researchers who are working in institutes, universities and I in this place express my gratitude for their work so far, but I demand and support because Serbian citizens are asking them to help them and to direct their research interests towards the needs of ordinary citizens, the need for businesses, the need for health care and other public services, and to help us here. I'm sure they'll accept that policy.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-04-0.u34179	This concludes the morning part of the session, and the rest of the session is at 3:00 p.m. this afternoon. Thank you. [[After break - 15.45.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work today's session in the afternoon. Please, in order to determine the quorum needed to work, insert your identification cards into the MPs. I agree that we have a quorum to work on and continue the session with a debate in which, in order to apply for a word in search of the motion to resolve the Government of the Republic of Serbia, MPs take part. Minister Aleksandar Vlahovic called for the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-04-0.u34181	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, because of the obligations I had this morning, I was not in a position to attend the beginning of the Assembly's work, but since I have in the meantime consulted the stenographic notes on what the MPs were saying about the privatisation process, or some concrete cases, I am reporting for the public to give precise answers to all the questions, dilemmas or half-truths raised here. I thought that at yesterday's session we had put an end to the privatisation of Cementara "Beocin" and that the public had received complete information, not only in my address to the Assembly last night, but also previously, on how and how the privatisation was done, or the bankruptcy procedure "Sartida". But I can see from the stenographic notes that once again, the thesis that the privatisation of Beochinski cementar could have been done in another way. Namely, one of the speakers said that in some direct agreement with Lafarza, a higher price was reached than later, during the tender procedure. It is true that in May 2001, according to the previous government's decisions, the late Prime Minister Djindjic had a conversation with Lafarz about the capital price and it was then announced that a price of 133 million marks for capital had been reached, but for 100% of the capital, not 70% of the capital, which was later sold in the tender procedure, therefore, in a public tender, according to the Privatisation Act. Therefore, it is not true that direct negotiations have reached a better price compared to the one achieved through the tender, because that price of 133 million for 100% capital corresponds to 70% of the capital price of 93.3 million marks. Gentlemen, I will remind you that later, by privatising the Beocinski cement factory, a price of 114.5 million marks has been reached in the tender procedure, which is a higher price for more than 20 million marks than that announced in the negotiations before that. Secondly, last night I called on those who were asking the question why is the condition of 7.5 million tons of cement production, to give me an example in Central Europe where it is not the owner of a cementist strategic partner, where it is owned by a financial partner, where it is owned by one who does not come from the cement industry. And today in this congregation, I didn't get an answer. I made it very clear that the mistake was allowed by Bulgaria and Romania and that the price for such a wrong move was that the cementists sold to someone who was not a strategic partner later paid twice, because they had a more significant slowdown in cement production. As for guarantees, it is true that in the previous period, when the previous government discussed or negotiated the sale of the Beocinski cement factory Lafaržu, bank guarantees for investment were never mentioned anywhere, such as no bank guarantees were given for further development of Telecom, so we are due to the lack of a guarantee for development precisely as we do today in Telecom Serbia, or in telecommunications. So someone can promise to invest 300 and 500 million dollars, a billion dollars; if there are no bank guarantees, it's just an empty promise and it's a single lie. Many countries made mistakes without bank guarantees, made such promises in the final calculation of the best offer, and then no investment was made at the level of 10% of the promised one. That's why everything that's been said before has absolutely no coverage, all those promises in bank guarantees. What was defined by the privatisation of Beocinski cement factory, in part of the investment programme, is fully covered by bank guarantees. I want to inform you, and I hope we get a chance to do that tomorrow, when the Ministry reports, on the tender privatisations that have been done and where it's been over a year. I'll give you a report on how much it's invested in each of these companies. So when I say, we don't sell on "mothers we" and "honor word," I mean the necessary banking guarantees for what's promised to invest. Because it's a way for non-business partners to get fines if they don't invest, the bank guarantee is activated and that money is being taken away from them. It is an economic language established in the privatisation process. We're going back to the Sartide case one more time. First, the management contract was never signed for "Sartid" but was signed for "daughter" "Sartid", for the company "White Lims" from Capco. As for Sartida, a contract was signed at Sartid on the reprocessing of the puzzles or more famous -- a London job, as it exists in many other industries. This means that for the processing of the U.S. Steel puzzles, Sartid was paying the price, and that was a way to provide the necessary trade capital for the maintenance of Sartid. I didn't say for one hour that the exit of the bank consortium was a fundamental disaster, but I made it clear what the reasons for them to go out were because we didn't want to accept any contract on making any studies, which would be for months, where only the state would have an obligation, and the other side no guarantee. In response to not accepting such a contract, the bank consortium decided to step out of this job and thank them for that. I also said that the loan that the bank consortium had placed for Sartid was not a state-guaranteed loan for any time. As an expert, I would never advise them to finance, to throw 70 million dollars into Sartid, 1997 and 1998, to extend the contract two weeks before the imposition of sanctions when the whole world knew sanctions would be imposed without providing a valid state guarantee. It was their commercial risk. The commercial risk was likely due to the high profits achieved during that period, but the risker must also be prepared to bear the price for the risk. I'm very sorry about that. So I didn't say we didn't have anywhere to go. The Sartid cost this country 1,200,000 dinars in 2002. It is the price of maintaining the capacity of Sartida, 1,200,000 dinars, which through subsidies, through unpaid accounts to public companies placed "Sartid". Similar figures are also linked to 2001, and before that I don't want to talk, because the rate of capacity utilisation of Sartida was 10-15%, so before the subsidies that went to Sartid were much higher. So Sartid was never a profitable company. That cost our taxpayers. Today we have the first situation in Sartide to work 9,000 workers and that Sartid doesn't cost the state anything. These workers who strike at Sartide regularly receive salaries, regularly receive all other privileges and the strike was conducted in accordance with the law. I am very pleased to tell the public that in a private company like Sartid today there is a strong union movement that very clearly defines trade union goals. This should be the way, among other things, to develop a union fight for other trade unions, not political goals, a political story. As far as 800 complaints about privatisation that Mr. Gašo Knezevic is supposed to solve, it is obviously a replacement of thesis. These 800 complaints refer to public procurement, not auction or tender privatisation. The process of resolving complaints on auction and tender privatisation is very clearly defined by law. The complaints, of course, exist. The solutions, of course, are issued in accordance with the deadline. If anyone finds it damaged, they have the right to seek out an emergency legal remedy and regular legal remedies from economic courts, or from senior courts. As for Canople, she was mentioned two days ago, I didn't mention her, you were getting faxes, support telegrams and anything. What I've shown here is a copy of the registration sheet, where it says very clearly how much one partner invested, how much another partner invested. I did not ask to be delivered such a thing; as you know, during the session, that fax arrived here in the Assembly, and that is, in fact, the best proof that the public is following the Assembly's meeting and that it is aware that it responds when the falses are brought out, the facts, when an unargumented attack on what was done. Believe me, I've also got a lot of telegrams about the alleged truths that come out here, but I can't think of using these methods and showing these telegrams here. I'll show them only then if any case pulls out on the other side, we'll show it as a very clear truth. As for (it seems to me to be the last and that I end up) the Apathian brewers and the fact that minority shareholders, gentlemen, have been damaged, I will remind you that the shareholders in the Apatian brewery have just come to know the value of their actions thanks to the transparent sale of the stock fund. I'll remind you that when shareholders traded on their own, which has nothing to do with the Ministry or the government or the agency, when a group of them entrusted the stock to brokers, they got a price of 1,700 dinars for one action. Twenty days later, when the Action Fund came out, when it rightly organised a competitive sale, a price of 11,700 dinars was received. This is best evidence that the best market valorisation in the market economy is achieved through competition. I'll remind you once again, that's the principle that the Ministry, the Agency, will stick to all the time during the implementation of the privatisation program, because, I'll remind you once again, we're moving from a non-competitive state to a competitive state. These stories of some companies being sold cheaply -- well, they're probably sold because their capital is so small, because they're over-indebted, insolvent, insolvent. Look at companies that don't have high debts, there's a price that goes up over 100 times. Let me give you just one eclectic example. About half a year ago, a company in Vienna with five employees was offered at the starting price of 2,000 dinars. I can't believe five employees couldn't have raised 2,000 dinars to buy their own company! The auction failed and the five workers made a good business decision, as buying the company for 2,000 dinars would buy huge debts they would later have to repay. The price is determined not by the Agency or the Ministry, but by the market. The most important thing for us is that the processes are public, that they are open, that there are equal conditions for all buyers and there is no discrimination, but it is very important to point out that what is promised, that they will invest, must be covered by a bank guarantee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-04-0.u34182	The word has a folk letter from Gordana Pop-Lazic. National MP Branko Pavlovic is looking for a replica. People's MPs, to remind you that in a debate like this, a member of the government, a pronoun and a People's MP seeking a replica have the same right to the championship. So, only the order can decide and that's the only way to get everyone in line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-04-0.u34183	In that order of yours, Madam Chairman, the ministers always have, of course, the advantage, so let the two ministers speak one after the other, to give me, possibly, the word. Here, from noon until now at four o'clock, the promoter couldn't get out for this pay phone. Minister Vlahovic, as far as we know, is leaving for China tomorrow. No, I don't. He remains to report to us. This just fits our charges. If I put out, perhaps, Mr. Vlahovic, something that you disagree with, claiming it's a lie, I've just brought out what the representatives of various companies that went into privatisation or were privatised delivered to us to a Parliament club that we bring out here and we ask you. Therefore, the public knows who lied here, who didn't lie and what the situation really is in these companies. When you're talking about Sartide, why don't you say no one has or we don't know who has taken over a billion-and-seven hundred million. That's what you tell us everyone can hear, because you've estimated, or your house, Deloitte & Touche, that the value of Sartida is $450 million, and it's sold for $23 million. Just to explain to us, if you're speaking here, you're speaking as a minister who protects the interests of the state or you're speaking as a consultant for "Deloitte & Touche," because you've told him more than once from here -- I would never advise him to invest in this, I wouldn't advise him to invest in that, but I would advise him to invest in it, and now if brokers listen to what you're saying, they know exactly what's going on on the stock market. You decide whether you are in "Deloitte & Touche", or you are in the Serbian Government. And answer this question specifically that I asked you, but you won't be able to right away, because I want to answer Mr. Domazette. You can't go right now. You'll have to wait a minute, one two hours. So, a billion and seven hundred million, where is this debt, who took over it, whether it's a state or someone else? I remained in one reply to the Minister of Education, but since he is not here, I will give him this concrete answer in his presence, and here I have a magazine for young people, this magazine for young people is called "Impuls", was freed of sales tax under Article 11 paragraph 8 of the Transport Tax Act, according to the Ministry of Culture and Public Information. The paper is registered in a register of public information funds headed by the Ministry of Justice and local self-government of the Republic of Serbia is provided with the consent and support of the Ministry of Education and Sports of the Republic of Serbia. I repeat, because of the content I will present, the paper is distributed with the consent and support of the Ministry of Education and Sports of the Republic of Serbia. At the elementary school "Vada Aksentijević" is divided by this magazine, seemingly contained not very interesting, the choices diverse for some products, the middle side attractive for our youth, this is a primary school, almost no content, except for an interesting site called "A sex for beginners". Now, that's with the consent of the Ministry of Science and Culture, please pay attention, this is very interesting. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: It is not for you. Mr. Prime Minister, you've already said what's right for me, you've already said I belong under the Blue Bridge, so let me explain this as a mother of three, and what I don't want my children at school to get, so show some patience. You know, I was almost in Nis, they're digging Nis, I see I'm digging Nis, and I don't know what's being built, I don't see anything going on, I'm asking -- what are you looking for, they say -- a degree in Zoran Zivkovic. Well she's not here-- I say I--she's in the oven, she's been bought there. Mr. Zivkovic, you don't understand this, you may not even care about raising your children, but I do. So I'm saying this because of you and the public, what our kids get in this new education system, and this isn't a magazine that's bought in kiosks, this is a magazine that's free of charge for kids at school, and that's all I'm talking about. That he's in the kiosks, please, available to everyone, so the Ministry of Education is not particularly interested in it, but it obviously is. And here he says, "Peace or capture (please, I read what children read), along with kisses, belongs to the area of foreplay. The difference between kissing and kissing is that kisses are performed with lips, i.e. The language, and the caressing of the hands, i.e. fingers. Some people enjoy kissing more, some kissing, but there are also those who prefer the combination. The advice for all three cases is (this is advice for children who are in primary school): take your time, and it is best to take it one step at a time. Step one: hand-hand. Step two: arm - shoulder. Step three: hand, chest. Or, step one: hand - knee, step two: hand - thigh, step three: hand - that thing." And so our kids for that thing, do they, have that name-- that thing. "Note: The more relaxed the partners are, the higher the result. The ultimate result is not only sexual relations and orgasms but also mutual closeness, gentleness, and joy. "Please, you can laugh here, this isn't funny at all. I want to read this, they're our kids at this school, and it's read, I'm not insulting this pay phone at all with that, no. "Sometimes, to caressing is a necessary atmosphere, semi-dark or even more darkened room, quiet music, easy breathing and a partner, of course, but sometimes only this last one is enough. Warning: The areas most often "touched" (watch out for banalization) are breasts and that thing of your own girl. "Is it possible for this Ministry of Education to release, please, taxes and contributions and to share something like this with our children? I just couldn't help but read this to you, not because the subject of sex should not be represented, but because of the way it's being banalized. Here, I'll throw it like this, I was so gunned down when I got it and it came into my hands. (The National MP Gordana Pop-Lazic throws a magazine next to a pay phone). And now to return to the minister... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-04-0.u34184	People's MPs, as you read the texts in the journal, considering this as the point of your discussion, can be widely regarded as making a point about the editorial policy of a list in order to criticise the government rather than refer to... People's MPs, who throw from the bench, I ask you to stop... Milorad Mircic, from the scene: On what basis... ) I give notice to the People's MP Milorad Mircic... Milorad Mircic, from the scene: On what basis are you doing this, Goco Comić? I give a second warning to the People's MP, Milorad Mircic, for disrespecting the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. So, while speaking to the MPs, you have the content of your speech to establish the view that the Ministry of Education is not taking care of editorial policy, so far this can be considered behavior in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. The moment you begin to throw objects around the National Assembly in order to express your position, at the very moment you are obliged to be interrupted and to give you a warning that you are acting in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and that you do not express your revolt in the way you have just done it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-04-0.u34185	I'd like to thank my classmates. Now, as far as the Ministry of... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-04-0.u34186	National MPs, when you address the chairman of the National Assembly, you are required to do so in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. So whoever holds the presidency here, for you is the chairman of the National Assembly, no matter what I do not consider the teacher's interest to be an insult or an insult, on the contrary, and apparently some of us didn't have good teachers back then when it was time, but I ask you to address the President in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-04-0.u34187	Thank you, Madam Chairman. You're acting in accordance with the note that came to you from the Prime Minister, and here I am going to continue to act in accordance with your recommendations. So, as far as I'm concerned, Mr. Domazet... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-04-0.u34188	That's why I'm warning you. God forbid, there will be no incident in this congregation. Please focus, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, on the content called - criticism of the Ministry of Education's work or any of the ministries. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-04-0.u34189	I want to talk to Mr. Domazette, but Mrs. Comic won't let me. I don't know, if she's expecting an incident here, that I'm making an incident, it's not my idea. Mr. Domazet is very pleasant to me, he expected this debate, because I told him that as much as he was exhibiting about science, I also prepared a referendum on the effect of this government on science. I know it may not be popular right now at 4:00 p.m. when we're looking at the widest layers of the population, because what the Ministry of Science does is mainly about a small number of people who do science, research work, and, of course, the young who study and who have a desire to do science. In particular, I wanted to dedicate my exposure to those who study natural sciences and to those who study history. It's very important and I don't really see what I did wrong here when I spoke to Mr. Secretary, unless it's unacceptable in parliament. I went back a little bit to the notes about your exposure, and then what I thought we should say to the public is, where are the failures of this ministry. For the Ministry of Science and Development, 450 million dinars were allocated for buildings and buildings, and for services under contract 200 million. You have increased this in your presentation, as you have allocated large funds to solve the housing problems of scientific workers and for objects serving for scientific purposes, and these are now very large amounts of money, and when you compare this to the amounts related to services under contract you see that this is ratio 1:2. So it's no money for that sort of thing. Specialized services, you said three billion and 100 million, but you fenced and said it was actually for the entire government. However, the budget totaled five billion and 690 million for special services, making the difference two billion and 500 million. That's what you have. You boasted of the Ministry's work plan, and your exposure was more about what you're going to do in the future, as if the government is now submitting some exposés, regardless of what this whole debate is about, trying to show the public that the government is submitting some kind of report. He's not reporting to the government. Here, the Serbian Radical Party is seeking support from other MPs in the debate to vote for mistrust with this government of the Republic of Serbia. So, what the president of the assembly allows you to present reports is one thing, but that's what citizens recognize very well, and don't when you go out here to talk about what you're going to do, because you won't have time to do anything unless you're in another government. That's possible, if you find yourself in another government again, and then you have a vision of what you would do if you were the Minister of Science again, but if you were, and it's a sign of question. You say there has been a reform of scientific and research work in Serbia. All of this about scientific and research work in Serbia and all of this about Vinci, it's good that you mentioned how much of the equipment you're going to do next month to single out Vinch. I'll look back on the problem, Vince, to prove to you how much you're running the wrong policy. It is the largest institute in Serbia and in that old Yugoslavia, which deals with science. You're boasting that you've connected 5,500 computers. Please, what do you get on computers? All kinds of reports. Science doesn't work on computers, and if you've already connected so many computers, which is at least a unique voter list you haven't made to serve us, to use that science once and for all, so that Serbia knows exactly how many voters there are, and not always to guess how many of us are alive and how many dead voters are. It's good to buy 590 scientific journals and certainly scientists are hungry because their wages are so miserable that I don't know how they have the motive to do science anymore, because today to do science in our country is really a luxury. A man of something must live, but science cannot live. What kind of laws you think you're making, we'll see if you can make it and when you arrive, and as far as the fields of young researchers and youth are concerned, you've forgotten, gentlemen, what you promised the youth. You promised that when you came to power you would be able to school for free, to get diplomas, not to go abroad, that even those who are abroad would return, but the orders of our finished intellectuals in front of the embassies were getting bigger and bigger. Intellectuals go into the world running because they can't seem to develop here. I promised you that on one basic science problem, because it all starts with us in Vinci when it comes to natural sciences and it all ends in Vinci, to show you how much you run the wrong policy, given that you are a machineman and that you may not understand this, and I was helped by experts from the Serbian Radical Party to cut the situation in Vinci. I appreciate that you may not have to know that, but you have assistants at the Ministry who are professional and who might be able to help you, and based on your report, we could also conclude that this is a collection of reports from various and different resolutions of your ministry. Who was as capable of helping you as he helped you, Mr. Minister, because you never did science, as I recall from what was written in your biography when you were elected here as minister. You came from abroad, Singapore or something, at a time when you became minister. The government's main scientific project by the funds invested in it is the Tesla Accelerator's installation, and in the AIT's further text in Vinca, whose main machine is cyclotron vinsi. Project leaders publicly admit that by now over $18m has been spent on this station. Those who know a little bit more and follow what's been going on since the beginning are the figures of $30 million. One thing is certain, for 20 million dollars it was possible to buy three cyclotrons of similar performances like this in Vinci. Minister Domazet was very familiar with all aspects of this failed venture immediately after his entry into office. I'm reading this because you were throwing money that we didn't have and throwing it into the bottomless pit, and then you were selling what you weren't supposed to sell but to keep, because that's what Vinci needs, but when we round the story, you'll know what I wanted to tell you. During the spring of 2002, the possibility of taking international loans and giving out new special funds from the government of the Republic of Serbia to partially complete what has been done since the end of 1995, according to commitments and plans. In conclusion, foreign experts say it took two more phases of three years and eight million dollars for each stage to complete the installation. The government of the Republic of Serbia and its Minister for Science, Technology and Development was indicated in July 2002 that they should be aware of the fact that the decision to extend the construction of this installation is equivalent to making a decision on the practical destruction of all other natural sciences in Serbia. They have been warned that the previous reckless waste of money for this station has brought all natural sciences in Serbia to the brink of the icy and that they need careful therapy and all kinds of help. The government seems to think that without natural sciences, Serbia can survive in this century and therefore leads to a policy of destroying domestic basics or as some prefer to call them fundamental scientific research. What do we base these conclusions on? First of all, the ministry for the procurement of experimental equipment for all scientific projects in Serbia has made about 1.5m euros a year, for the cyclotron project it is to allocate $2.5m a year over the next three years, at this rate, totaling $16m for the next six years. I'll explain why it shouldn't have been done at all. For a country like Serbia, and above all I mean the economic power of Serbia, the cyclotron project is obviously a complete scientific, technological and economic failure that you finance. Our most esteemed experts say it is such a failure that the cyclotron in Vinci should be closed, even if someone miraculously completes it free of charge and drives it, not to throw these 16m euros. After all, far richer countries in the world, Canada, France, America, Russia, are closing such and much better cyclotrons. For this station, "Tesla" in Vinca and for natural sciences in Serbia today there is certainly no money and can be chosen either one or the other. Without urgent material support for basic research in biology, physics and chemistry and a careful plan for the purchase of expremental equipment, natural sciences in Serbia will be completely destroyed by the end of this decade. In order for that to be saved, my minister, I'm just going to let you know for a little while. The construction of this station would free $2.5 million that the builders are asking to make, beware, concrete protection that is intensively due to this summer and reportedly repairing some errors in building the building. That's where I put the question mark and the scream sign. By giving up the completion of the first phase of cyclotron, an additional five million dollars would be released that require unsatisfactory builders. If the government invested these 7.5m dollars, three modern laboratories that meet all European standards could be formed within the next three years. One for each of the natural sciences. You're boasting that 500 new researchers are employed. Where you hired them, when the labs aren't there or when they're in bad shape. For this money instead of investing and throwing into this bottomless hole and in this failure that everyone in the world has given up, you need to go back to what you need, which is laboratories, and that's for these basic sciences, because cyclotron is, in fact, a hard industry. I don't know if you understand all this, but that's the way it is. The problem of science priorities has not been seriously set yet by anyone in Serbia. The most numerous (and the good thing is that the Prime Minister is going, because he doesn't understand anything) the scientific group at the Vinca Institute are physicists, you know that. At the scientific council, and in the field of physics, she made some conclusions, and they specifically spoke to you there and said they were asking you not to finance the construction of that accelerator installation of Tesla anymore. Why do you keep insisting on it, it's not clear to them, and they probably know better what they need and what they don't need; whether they need a heavy industry or whether they need some newer technology for research and scientific development. The chemists also supported physicists on their scientific council. Mr. Prime Minister, hello, Mr. Zivkovic, sit in the front row, please, I'm really distracted, talking about things that are very important, and you're making so much noise to me, believe me, it hurts your throat. You don't have to listen. Please be quiet, read the paper. Minister Domazet continued his course, they say, in his mind, not listening to scientists from the Vinch Institute, or physicists, or chemists. Don't forget, it's about Secretary Domazette's mind, don't, please, protect me, Madam Chairman. Why isn't anyone protecting me?
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-04-0.u34190	People's MPs, you're asking me to protect you, Mr. Prime Minister is asking me to protect him.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-04-0.u34191	I'm at the pay phone, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-04-0.u34192	Well, we all respect the Rules of Procedure together, so we're protected. I also ask the MPs and the members of the government to pay attention to the People's Parliament and thus to show that we all really care about this debate together.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-04-0.u34193	Thank you so much for including me. Are there any more failures at the Ministry of Science? Of course there is, and it doesn't cost much more. We've already figured out 18 million for something nobody asks for, because scientists usually ask for -- give money, give money, and you yell mostly -- there's no money; I know what the procedure is. They say now -- don't give us money for this, we don't need it, it's out of line, and you're still pushing it. Now they say what they need. One of the failures that I'm going to talk about, surely, is the Minister of Domazette and this government in history. Why in history? So because they managed to do the most damage to Serbian science in the shortest time. It's that junk you were talking about aphimaticly, and I'm going to prove to you from the scientific point of view that it's a huge failure. Namely, you donated over tens of millions of dollars, perhaps a hundred million dollars, irrevocably, alienating from the Vinch Institute freshly enriched reactor fuel last August. Please, I'm turning my attention to tens of millions of dollars, maybe a whole hundred of you gave it away. You're about to do a lot of damage because you want to start a decommissioning, which is the break-up of a wine reactor that costs between $50 million and $100 million. The garbage is transformed into a watery nuclear reactor in Vinci, an almost unique research machine, for which construction today should separate hundreds of millions of dollars. I would like to point out that the Vincenian reactor was in functional condition when it was closed in the mid-80s, and the international atomic agency in Vienna was obliged to deliver a new security system for this research reactor, and 85% of it had already arrived, not to bother you, I'm going to skip a little bit, you've figured out what it was mostly about, I guess. So this is a brief comment on what you gave. So there's a simple question -- how long are things like this going to happen to us, and who's to blame? That's where we come in. Perhaps in response to this question you can be helped by last year's statement by the Minister of Science and Technology, Mr Domazette, as he is an expert member of the Democratic Party, on the decision to defuse the nuclear reactor. Nothing, says Mr. Domazet, is essentially going to change. Our nuclear physicists will still have work to do. The fact that we told them to disarm the nuclear reactor is the same as telling them to build it, just a little different... Now someone figured it out, someone didn't realize it, but these scientists and researchers figured it out. It is not surprising to Minister Domazette, he has been a member of the government for three years, who has freed us from both our businesses and our banks and from the youth that is even faster leaving, and the whole government seems to be leaving. They're getting better, people getting worse. As for the reminders you received from the experts from Vinca, who advised you on a well-intentioned basis, the scientific council in the field of physics of the Institute of Vinca addressed the following letter in July 2002 by all important institutions in the country (I am trying to shorten this): both the President of the SRJ and the President of the Federal Government, and the President of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and the Minister of Defence and Chief of General Staff of the VJ, and the Federal Nuclear Commission and the public, because Vinca is not some independent trade business, but is important for all these areas of life, primarily for medicine, for defence. Scientifically larger in the field of physics of the Vinch Institute has decided to address the relevant state institutions, SANU and the public by the following letter: "If everyone in high duties, which must be high and binding, do not urgently use their powers to which the people have passed on to them, by the end of August of this year, will be irrevocably exported abroad at the cost of the whole fresh nuclear fuel we have. The sale of this material, which followed, in depravity, without any adequate compensation, in terms of potential scientific and technological value, would be one of the strongest in a series of strokes of applied sciences from an unpublished scientific policy, which if they continue to threaten to soon irrevocably destroy the sensitive tissue of thought life, which at this point represents the greatest range of our scientific and technological literacy, which has been created with the greatest care and sacrifice for many generations back. "These days, the Russians have set up an account for you to carry high-radioactive nuclear fuel reactors to Vinci. He's worth over 45 million U.S. dollars. It's only been a year, and what professional people have warned all relevant factors of this country that will happen has come true. The truth came as a blow to the head with a stick. To make everything even more tragic, the Americans took our fuel and shut down the reactor, took steps to make several of their reactors, even four, significantly weaker performances than the vincan reactor, freshen up and reconstruct. To sum up: alienated fuel, that you took advice from experts, could restore overall science in Serbia. So you're boasting that you've alienated this, and it shouldn't have been alienated, it could have restored all science in Serbia. Because of the politics and diplomatic illiteracy of those who influence it, this has failed, and Americans, as you know, love the half-trons more than anything, while they need them, and when they no longer need them, they despise them. The next step of Minister Domazetta is only logical, because it was necessary to do something to cover up for all time the failure and malfeasance around this accelerant installation and to give in the depletion of fresh, unique reactor fuel that has been working in Vinci for over 20 years. That is why in July of this year, he has access to something called the transformation of the Vinca Institute, and it is about breaking up the largest and most famous scientific institute in Serbia. A lot of things, of course, Domazet is talking to justify this destruction: and Vincha is not scientifically successful, and that the Institute will become more unique by breaking it into four parts, although one is now a legal person, means unique and as such works for 50 years, and is not satisfied with the pace at which the previous v.d. is. Director performed the requested reorganisation, etc. Yes, the minister himself is not a cat's cough. He also proved himself to be involved in the V.D. election. Director Vinci, so he blackmailed the teaching-science council, so he says if he doesn't get elected, I'll stop funding all the projects in Vinci, and the next day I'll send the financial police to the Institute, so I'll exclude all the representatives of the Institute from all the working bodies, etc. Then it's logical to get into the chosen commission for so-called. The transformation is found by a man of 33 who took a job in 2000, after eight years of studying completed physics and only after three years of working in Vinci. I'm very interested in whether he's in the Democratic Party, too, whether he needs to transform people most of whom were employed in the '70s and before 30s even doctored. It wasn't Tito's time either, but it is now. So, if you destroy Vinci, Minister, Vinci is what it is, the only real core in which some organized fire of science that dedicated people can barely sustain is still burning. In Vinca there is physics, chemistry, biology and a certain experience of work on applied scientific projects. Vinca today has 15% competent researchers in Serbia, 2000 competent people have Serbia today, and Slovenia has 5,500 according to some international data, and others are researchers; somewhere around 7,000 Serbia has researchers, and I hope that you are making a difference between scientists and researchers. It is clear from the above that another characteristic act of the current government is in play, that this is the most brutal choice of a new moral democratic mondialist political resemblance and no security. This wasn't even the time of the Inquisition that they wouldn't give you water as long as you worked this long. And so there's all this... I wouldn't take your water if I was thirsty, I guess I deserve something new here. I don't know what you were doing with that glass of water. Things are happening in Serbia today. A new history is being written that would make our people feel guilty about nonexistent crimes and turn Serbian heroes into criminals. Every trace of Serbian science is being suppressed, I have moved a little bit to history, and of course it begins with the hasty destruction of the largest and most famous scientific institute in Vinci, before the adoption of the law on scientific work, which is just being prepared. Scientists in Vinca are asked for worldwide results, and the largest and most important group of physicists in the Institute have not received an experimental device worth over $50,000 and nothing in the last three years, unless the miserable funds are calculated for the repair of long-old experimental devices. On the purchased computers, they say there are too many personal computers, which domazet is so proud of, science can't work. All they have on them are well-dressed reports about some ancient measurements and possibly earn something, when bought on an gro, to supplement the thin ministerial salaries. Domazette will be remembered for something else. Recently, an announcement appeared at the fair that some project managers were rewarded for allegedly up-to-date project management. One of the physics projects is in 43 places, out of 45 projects. I'm setting this as an example of how much you care about prominent scientists. The project was barely met and received a thin transition grade. The awarded manager is in the section where the project quality assessment - factor 0.004. It had a flat 375 times lower score than the first-placed project, which in that column had a score of 1.501. That's your credit. However, it is obviously a political likeness, or political inadequacy, of the one in the first place. What was it really supposed to do? Under the conditions of major budgetary constraints, the remaining staff who have worked well and survived the last 15 difficult years for science should be preserved. Was prescribing rules and law-making hard to do? Minister, you haven't done anything in that area yet, and you could have. That's what scientists who are involved in physics, chemistry, biology, who work in laboratories and research cells and are absolutely dissatisfied with your work. That was about you. I have so much power. Believe me, I'm more tired of that introduction and the debate with the president of the assembly whether I'm using a pay phone or representatives of the government, so we came to the point that it's always the one behind the pay phone, or who's in the opposition. (President: You spoke with the Vice President rather than the President of the Assembly, but I understand the fall in concentration. Why are you shutting down my time? So I've been following up on how long I've been out, because I'm trying to get some records. I've answered this just enough for you to know that we knew what your concept would be, that each of you would file some reports, and only so much that you knew that we were following your work individually and that we could answer for each of you. Something hated reading and remembering everything about Dusan Mihajlovic, Gaš Knezevic, and Covic. However, they haven't even submitted a report yet, so we'll only have time to bring it out in public, because our requests for the replacement of these ministers were going on in time, and now we've received a request for a minister's resolution, during a debate on the entire government, which apparently falls, so I don't understand how the majority here will find 126 votes to resolve one minister. It's simply impossible, so Mrs. Rushetta can sit freely in her ministerial chair. There is no one in this House to resolve it. The Prime Minister can't do anything to her either. What is particularly important, and what this government, as a undertaker of Serbian economy and economy, needs to answer - Mr. Prime Minister, I am not looking at you, I only think about these economic experts, and there is no Mr. Milovanovic - how are we going to prevent this highest unemployment rate? That's what people care about most, not how many personal computers we bought or how much fish net we got. That's not what the people are interested in, but how do we hire these 970,000 people who have lost their jobs and those who are just going to lose their jobs, because they're under bankruptcy and bankruptcy by 21,000 other companies. How are we going to reduce this foreign trade deficit, how are we going to reduce this over-indebted debt, how are we going to avoid the Argentine scenario? What you're saying is that 220 euros is our average salary, just so you know that the Argentines broke when they were $500 and more. They're already broken by then. As we still stick to it, it is a question, but you will have to address these fundamental and crucial issues, which are why we are looking for a shift, in addition to what Dusan Mihajlovic and Dusan Mihajlovic accused you of additional crime this morning, to answer. We will remind you in the course of tomorrow of what Canak, Covic, told you at the same time, and what you said to them, how you agreed and how you have survived so far.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-04-0.u34194	Right on line, MP Branko Pavlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-04-0.u34195	There is no Mr. Vlahovic now who caused the replica, but we have returned to the argument on the occasion of "Lafarza", namely Beikinska cementara and "Sartida", or "US Steel". Mr. Vlahovic said the goal is to create competitiveness. The key thing about these two cases is that the competitiveness wasn't there. That's the essence of the whole story. The competition in the Sartide case was exactly zero. So no competitiveness. Mr. Vlahovic explained to us that, in fact, the government had run this whole bank consortium business, later on about U.S.S.S.Steel, about financing Sartida, and he also confirmed my thesis that the whole variant of bankruptcy and bankruptcy manager was actually just a cover-up behind one procedure and formally competent people, and that essential decisions were made by people from the government and, of course, on this team was the responsibility of Mr. Vlahovic. That's the point. He says competition, and then there's competition zero. So that factory was sold without bid and without tender. It's perfectly normal to go to bidding and tender, because it provides competition and the possibility of getting a better price. Later, when it was done, we saw from the appearance of foreign companies, among other things, a company that is bigger and more significant than U.S. Steel, that they were willing to offer a far higher price than the one obtained by that privatisation. Why is that making me tang? Not because of what I'm being burdened with, like I'm representing someone else's interests. No, from the higher price, bankruptcy would be higher, and key trusts, priority in this bankruptcy, are in fact all state funds and state-owned public enterprises. It pains me that such a procedure, in practice, in a broader sense of the budget, i.e. state property, has been damaged by very large funds. As for the sale of cementers, the result of that competition and that tender was that for three cementers you had four bidders. So, competition 0.25. In other words, of course, those four bidders will not compete, but they will agree on who to take some cement and thus enable the fourth to achieve their interests in another tender in the world. Then you got the price you got. I'm glad we actually saw that I said the exact figures: 133 million, 114.5, and I said 18.5 million. At least that's where we agreed. The explanation that it's 70% of the action, not 100%, that's true. So it's really not the same if it's 70 or 100%. Where is Mr. Vlahovic wrong? He's wrong, because he's not the same action as the control package. Not every action is worth the same. Those who make up 70% have a control package in the steering sense, in this company are worth more, so his mathematics here is not quite correct. I agree that I didn't consider this 30% part, but we're staying on the same four bidders for three cements, combined with elements... (President: I warn you of overstepping allowed time. )......................................................................................................... Three cements at once from the cement industry alone and 7.5 million. When you add the result, there's no competition.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-04-0.u34196	The word is made by the Prime Minister, Mr. Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-04-0.u34197	I have a special motive to explain this to Mr. Pavlovic, and to our citizens, above all, because I think he thinks he has good intentions, but for some reason it does not show when he is behind this speaker. So you said 133 million is more than 117 million, which is true. But this was for 100%, and this was for 70%. When you calculate that then you see that 70% of that 133 million, ninety-five million, which is almost 20, or over 20 million less than the price is achieved. That's one thing. The other thing is, you're always mixing. I don't know if you're into tenders or direct conversations. When it comes to Sartid, you think it was supposed to be a tender. When "Lafarge" was at stake, it was supposed to be a direct conversation. Set yourself up, whatever option you want to declare to be the best, I agree with that, and then you run an analysis against that option. Four bidders for three cementers prove there's no competition. You had three bidders for two tobacco factories. Over 600m euros were made, for two tobacco factories, three bidders. According to your logic, it's even less competitive. Do you agree with that? What's the objection to the sale of these cigarette factories? You've got Beopetrol that's been sold. There were only two bidders, so nobody, not even you said there was something wrong with it. That's no good. I think you have a problem. If there's nothing wrong with you in the world, and there are people who are at least part of it that suits you, then if I were you, I'd start thinking about myself. Why is nothing wrong with me? Does anyone hate me? Do I have a problem with my environment? Do you have proof that someone who concluded that he had a problem with his environment, eventually turned out to be the only one who was right? No, I don't. Unfortunately, such an experience of these centuries is behind us, that it usually means something else. I don't think that in your case what was true for many, but I ask you to define in your criticism the authority you were in, perhaps you're still, you don't know it, day by day, what your reasoned views are. So, just tell me, when you get back here, are you up for that direct offer and direct sale is good, or is it a good way to go through tenders. If you're telling me that the combination is best then that's where we question arbitration, and then we'll never agree who's right.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-04-0.u34198	Right on line, MP Branko Pavlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-04-0.u34199	As you can see, I'm trying to avoid every possible level of offensive tones, calculating that argument is enough. So, you're living in one delusion that the tender rules out furniture. So, in principle, the tender is better than the direct contract, there's no dispute, but we had a whole series of set tenders. I'll tell you right away: a tender for the purchase of oil in 2002, worth over $400 million, a fully furnished tender. So, when you said, a little bit, you said that this morning, I didn't get a chance to replicate. I'm glad you're asking me from the bench now what I've done, I'll tell you about it, about these previous ones. I spoke publicly of it, both in one case and in another. In this first case, about the cementists, I wasn't lucky enough to be transferred by some central media, so I kept saying it on the local media. When it comes to a tender for oil, it was all over the cover of a very circulation daily list. Milka Marinkovic, from "Nacional"? No, it was "Blitz," if you want to know what the paper was. I have to tell you that on two occasions it was quite visible, and as far as your remarks were made earlier this afternoon, that it is necessary to file criminal charges, I am fully involved in this process of taking part in the prosecution and I am not a naive man to file criminal charges at all. If once the Normal Serbia Initiative is on the move, it will all be settled in a hundred days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-04-0.u34200	Mr. Zoran Zivkovic, then Minister of Economy and Privatisation, Mr. Aleksandar Vlahovic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-04-0.u34201	Here, we have some very clear evidence, Mr. Pavlovic. As I recall, you were soon a member of the Board of Directors of the NIS. As I recall, NIS buys oil. So you're saying now that the tender for the purchase of crude oil for 2002 was staged, and you were sitting on the board of directors of NIS. You represent the Initiative for Normal Serbia. That's it. It's you, sir, you should have stopped it. Not in the paper. In the paper, anyone can say something. In the paper, anyone can say anything. It's the same democracy. It's kind of bitter, ugly, like that, but it's democracy, too, but you had a government obligation, as a state official on the board of directors, chosen by the government, to protect the interests of this country, the citizens of this country, to act in the law, not to write through the newspaper. Or you're aware that there's nothing there about setting things up, but it's the only way that you stay politically, to say that you're for normal Serbia. I was talking about normal Serbia, and you were sitting on the board the moment you saw something wrong, or it just happened to you then, so you're aware. I don't know what it means for you to be involved in the humanizing of the judiciary. I'm not. What right do you have to participate in this? Who are you to participate in this? Even if you say it's poorly staffed, how did you let it get that bad? I agree, if that's what you thought, that in one part of the judiciary, we have very bad staff and it is not Minister Batic or the Government of Serbia's fault for these personnel. Ask the Supreme Council of Justice and ask yourself. You staffed the judges, the Serbian government did not staff the judges, all of you sitting here, and the opposition and MPs of the government and some who were there -- here, and some who are for normal Serbia and some who are for another Serbia. So, please tell me, I'm very interested in all the details of setting up that tender for crude oil.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-04-0.u34202	Replica, MP Branko Pavlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-04-0.u34203	I'll explain everything. So, number one, the oil tender was called past the board of directors. He had an open deadline of seven days, for the purchase of 2,400,000 tonnes, a total of seven days lasted the tender, including Saturday and Sunday. He asked for an offer to be made in an envelope in Belgrade at local time, which also shortens time by all those DHLs and other means so that it can be directed, in other words, to prepare the entire tender documentation that could be submitted at all was reduced to 48 hours, which means he could only react to the one who had an announcement in advance that this would happen. The board of directors faced only the consequences of this, held a five-hour debate in which former Minister Novakovic was present and asked to vote on it; it was a proposal to support it, it was not supported, the tender by the Management Board was not supported. I was too loud in the part where it was supposed to be to knock down the tender, there was a road map left on the board of directors. According to the Rules of Procedure of the Board of Directors of the NIS, each member is personally responsible for his vote both criminally and materially. Therefore, when I vote against, I have done everything that has to be done, I have come out publicly with what this is about, and the public prosecutor is required under official duty to examine such a matter, therefore, further steps are completely unnecessary. As for asking me who I am -- I'm a member of the Justice and Administration Committee, I'm talking about situations, these previous two cases, mainly related to the end of 2001 and the beginning of 2002. During the whole 2001, by law, the Justice and Administration Committee was the only person in charge of the management of human resources policy in this regard. So when you ask me who I am, I'm someone who was in the body and who knows how it was done to detail. It was done by putting pressure on the executive government, so we were doing a lot of good work by March, April 2001, then the executive government pressured from May to June, I was also against it, you weren't in this assembly, there was an interruption due to the installation of V.d. Prosecutors, etc., we had everything here, the whole circus, and then we were without a republican prosecutor until the end of the year. He's completely the result of some compromise, which has nothing to do with me. So when you're talking to misbehaves, it seemed to me that you were talking to misbehaves, I was formally in a body that was formally in charge, and I know exactly when it went downhill. It came from Jelisaveta Vasilic and from when you voted with the radicals and the SPS for the first time, the Supreme Court, for the first time, patented you in the Democratic Party, voted with the radicals and the SPS and shot down the proposal. That's how it was.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-04-0.u34204	I'm warning you of an overrun of the time allowed. The word has the minister of justice, Mr Vladan Batic. I apologize to Minister Vlahovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-04-0.u34205	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am not familiar with what Mr Pavlovic said a moment ago - what was the pressure of the executive authority? Exactly what he has now stated is in conflict with that claim. The election of Jelisaveta Vasilic was made and did not pass here in parliament and it has nothing to do with the executive authority, nor did she propose it, nor did she choose it.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-04-0.u34206	The word has the minister of economy and privatisation, Mr Aleksandar Vlahovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-04-0.u34207	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's interesting to elaborate that 70% of the capital is the same as 100% of the capital. More specifically, it is interesting to say that it remains on the claim that the price obtained for 100% of the capital and which is clearly lower than the price obtained through the tender privatisation is actually a more favourable price; 70% of the capital on the basis of previous agreements, and based on the procedure started by the even previous government, is definitely lower than the one achieved in the tender. Lafarge, who bought the Beocina cement factory, besides paying 70% of the capital for more than 52 million dollars, has the obligation to at the same price, minimum at the same price, buy all offered shares from small shareholders. Therefore, in a theoretical case, if he wants to own 100% of the capital, and has an obligation whenever actions are offered, to buy those shares, he will have to spend 100% of the capital to allocate 134 million marks to that original account of yours. The other thing I'm trying to say, and in order to get rid of empty stories, why is 7.5 million tons of cement a condition for those who can compete? I call on you for the third time to tell the citizens of Serbia here, to set an example in Central Europe, which is a financial partner, which is a customer that does not come from the cement industry bought a cement store in the privatisation process in Central Europe, and to exclude Turkey, because it only happened there, and Turkey was not in transition as it is known for Central Europe. If you don't have that example, then don't tell me why the 7.5 million condition -- because practice has shown that the best way for the cement industry is exactly a strategic partner and that it's an unforgivable mistake for someone who dares to sell to a financial partner through a tender or without a tender, because behind that price is paid by the state. This applies to the cement industry, it applies to the oil industry, it applies to a whole series of industries where the presence of a strategic partner is necessary and when you look at the economic map of Europe from the aspect of the cement industry, then you will see spheres of influence of individual multinational companies. Therefore, the tender made for the Beocina cement factory, for other cement industries, is actually the best proof that the government of Serbia, the ministry, in the privatisation process, is not the most important thing to get the biggest amount of revenue, but to get a strategic partner to invest, which will invest in the social programme and will provide a stable future. If by any chance we had taken that condition down and said, "let's buy whoever he wants, we know that we'd probably get more money for the state register, but we're sure that we'd make an unforgivable mistake for the cement industry and then we'd have problems with that industry afterwards. Thank you for asking -- why we didn't do it, we didn't do it because we're responsible and because we want this country to have multinational companies that will improve the quality of corporate governance and ensure a stable development of this industry.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-04-0.u34208	The word has been made by MP Zlata Djeric, a violation of the Rules of Procedure, deputy president of the Nova Srpska parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-04-0.u34209	Dear colleagues, the President-in-Office, the debate here has received rather pyretic flows, and I am advertising the breach of the Rules of Procedure that occurred in the afternoon when a warning was given to the head of the New Serbia parliamentary group. This injured the Rules of Procedure in Rule 102. Even nine members of the Rules of Procedure regulate, of course, holding order at the session and they should be applied, but Article 102. The Rules of Procedure do not contain any basis for imposing sanctions on Mr Ćirkovic, because he did not approach the speaker without the presidency's permission, did not speak before he received the word, did not interrupt, interfere or throw away the speaker, did not present facts or assessments of other persons' private lives, did not use curses and offensive expressions, did not violate the work of the session, nor did he object to the provisions of this Rules of Procedure. Therefore, the use of words - the entity, cannot be assessed or sanctioned as a delinquent. Just to remind you, the word subject from the Latin word subjectum that is introduced into our language means - the base or the foundation, and it is marked by the person or person, unlike the object. Therefore, it is derived from that word and word subjective, which confirms that it is a person and can be used in such a way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-04-0.u34210	National MP Zoran Cirkovic has injured Article 100, paragraph 2, which says, "People's MPs are obliged to address one another with respect." So, we're talking to each other here with respect, and that's how it's gonna stay the rest. You have no right to a replica. You didn't mention it. I listened well to Mr. Minister and he said - I invite you, in the sense of all the MPs. I understand that, and I don't see that you're the most important person here, that you're the only one who's replicating. Therefore, we continue the debate. The word has a science minister, Mr. Dragan Domazet.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-04-0.u34211	Dear Mrs. Pop-Lazic, I will try to answer your questions, your suggestions. I'm going to try to give a very reasoned explanation, and I don't think there's a need to be in controversy, and I would ask MPs for other topics, to mix the personors or critics with matter. It's not nice to get these things mixed up and I'm going to have a hard time making up my mind, but this time, I'm going to make an exception to your finding that I'm not a scientist. I'm going to say it now and I'm not going to say it again, because you probably read it in the paper, and I'm just going to say it as soon as possible who I am and what I am. I graduated in 1971 as the best student of technical school, got more awards as the best student. I was first in my class in master's degree and doctorate. I received a prestigious American award, a Fulbright scholarship, and I spent nine months at one of the elite American universities, where I studied the application and theory of artificial intelligence in product and technology design. For seven years, I worked in Singapore at a science institute, taught undergraduate studies at the University of Technology in Singapore. I was on the defenses of several PhDs as a member of the commission and published about a hundred papers. I am not a science scientist in the field of natural science, but I am a scientist in the field of technical - technological sciences and those who understand it read my recommendations that are public and you can get them in any scientific library of Serbia, and it is on the Ministry's website. I don't think it's really important to talk about it, because the minister doesn't have to be a scientist, but in this case, he is a scientist. I came here to help this country and I interrupted my scientific arrangement abroad with pleasure and no regrets. I'm very happy working here on the construction of our country, although my salary before I came was equal to the salary of all the people employed in my ministry. It shows what I left and why I came back. About the budget, you ask and you say -- how you've allocated 450 million for apartments, that's nothing because you've allocated 200 million for services. You probably don't know what's behind those items. The service items do not include any service under the contract. It's the smallest part, and most of the time there's a payment of Microsoft licenses and all the ministries, all the state authorities, all the municipalities got 30,000 licenses to the Ministry of Science and Technology regularly pay Microsoft and it goes from this item, so it's not work contracts. It's primarily the use of foreign technologies with us. We did not invest 2.5m euros in equipment, but, as I said, 11.3m euros and on that side, I think it is quite clear. As for the transformation of the Vinca Institute, I would ask you to allow me to read what is said about the transformation of the Vinci Institute by scientists themselves in Vinci. In particular, I'm going to try to quote what they wrote about themselves, so you don't think it's something the Ministry finds out, which isn't standing, and on the other hand, I hope you'll find it more clear to you about the situation in Vinci. I'm quoting one part of their elaborate, which scientists in Vinci wrote. "For a long time already, the Institute of Nuclear Sciences has no clear and unique concept of development. Its overall scientific programme is a collection of the most often poorly related scientific and technological projects. A large number of practically independent organisational units have potentiated heterogeneity and led to the emergence of conflicting interests. The human resources base has weakened quantitatively and qualitatively significantly, which has led to almost total inactivity of certain forms of research activity and a visible lack of significant part of the space available. A low level of technical equipment and weakness in the organisation has led to problems in the quality of services and rationality of joint services in the functioning of successful and efficient overall coordination. The lack of mandatory regulation from domains of working relationships, work obligations and rewarding systems has led to a high degree of diversity and improvisation. Insufficiently fast and efficient adoption of appropriate regulatory procedures related to reactor decommissioning and permanent resolution or removal of complete radioactive waste additionally burdens the possibility of reviving the research complex and its faster development. In such circumstances, the gathering of young scientific and research staff and its effective training for taking a significant role in research processes was not at the level that require the current real criteria for joining research capsities into the most significant international projects and necessary co-operation in science and technology development. It should be noted that in the last year, with the support of the competent ministry, a significant positive step has been taken in the engagement of young and talented experts. The upcoming transformation needs to achieve, above all, the following basic objectives: a greater contribution of scientific and research potential, research activities in Vinci to the development of businesses and health care in Serbia; a focus of all research activities in line with national priorities in research and development, in line with the policy of scientific and technological development of the Serbian Government; the establishment of an optimal organisational scheme with a flexible internal structure, which, in accordance with real opportunities and framework legislation, will enable functional adaptation of needs and conditions of environment; a clear distinction between the basic activity of smaller numbers closer to the profiled organisational units, which, as an independent legal entity, integrates into the association of a unique scientific and research complex; the creation of new most modern research laboratories and centres for the needs of the overall scientific potential in the Republic of Serbia; the necessary of the need for the need of the need for the necessary character and the necessary characterisation of the need for the need of the need of the Vine. "It's a quote from the elaborates written by experts from the vinche. As you can see, people themselves realize that they are willing and willing to carry out the transformation, because they understand well our intensity that it is for the benefit of this institute. Normally, always, and that's democratic, there are conflicting opinions, but it's a very minority opinion that's been delivered to you and that you're trying to present here as the opinion of scientists in Vinci. It's not a typical opinion of most scientists in Vinci. You said I imposed a choice of V.D. Director. Yeah, it's true. I did, because I made a commitment before you, and I took an oath to obey the laws, and I'm going to stand up for reform, and that's what I'm doing. Previous v.d. The director in two and a half years failed to implement the transformation of Vince, for which he had my mandate. Normally, I took legal steps and proposed a different person to the director. What kind of person is that? It's a regular physics professor from the University of Newsad, a person who understands, a scientist, but is not from Vinci for many reasons. We need a man who won't be biased, a man on the side, because it's a denominations in four parts. Here we need someone who's a judge, not someone who's interested in cheering for one, the other, the third or the fourth sides. That's the only motive for bringing a man on the side. Unfortunately, the people in Vinci declared through their statutes that no one outside of Vinci could be the director of the Vinci Institute. It is contrary to the law, contrary to the Constitution, and I intervened from my position that it was inadmissible and demanded from members of the Management Board, which the government has appointed, to respect the government's policy and, normally, threatened, if they do not do so, to be replaced. I was referring to four members of the Management Board appointed by the Government to represent the Government of the Management Board. As for cyclotron, I didn't mention it in the opening statement, but that, too, is like nuclear waste, one legacy that we inherited. The construction of cyclotron began in 1989, and it was inadmissiblely prolonged. When I became a minister, I inherited that problem and already spent $17.5 million. What could I have done? The safest thing for me to say is, it's none of my business, throw it in the old iron, 17.5 million went away, why should I risk it, and someone resents me for such an investment. That was the easiest, but not responsible. After an analysis was carried out, a consultation of a large number of experts from the country and abroad, talks with the Ministry of Health, created a policy in the area, which carries one element of risk, but we accepted that when we agreed to be ministers. What's the risk? The risk is to invest not $16 million, but seven million, and from the end of that first phase, the air being produced and the production of the F18 isotop, FDG18, and to buy a special camera for our health, which would be used in cancer diagnosis. In this way, we would put that investment into work, and on the other hand, we took a series of steps that would make them attractive to other investors from that point on. I went to Belgium, I talked to the Minister for Science and Technology of the Valonia region in the presence of the president and one of the owners of the world's largest cyclotron manufacturer and those cyclotrons you're talking about so they can replace this cyclotron. The gentleman told me -- we don't produce cyclotrons like this, you have one very specific cyclotron. We need such a cyclotron because of very specific radioisotopes. The moment it works, we are ready to invest millions of dollars, with cooperation and support from the Belgian government, and to build a joint venture firm, and we, as a world firm, will place in the world a production of radioisotypes that have a century of half-life for several days. The other direction of attracting foreign funds is by the Italian government. We're still in negotiations. We expect a very favourable loan for that area. The third activity is related to the Russian debt. We're trying to get some of the funds out of the Russian debt. Minister Djelic is in talks with the Russian delegation on the matter. So we're trying something we inherited to put into operation. What do you get if all that works? I think the most humane goal is that the greatest results in the field of health, because we will have an accelerator that will produce radioisotopes for the needs of all health institutions. It is agreed with the Ministry of Health to buy 3-5 cameras for the country's largest centres, which would use these radioisotopes for diagnostics and nuclear physics, the diagnosis of cancer patients. At the reactor itself, in phase two, a proton therapy device would be built to allow the treatment of people with eye cancer. So we'd be saving lives for people who, unfortunately, now don't have that possibility of healing. Depending on the application of health care, in the field of research we have a whole series of programmes and we would become one regional research centre in the area. And that doesn't endanger other projects speaking numbers, not my words. The figures say that Vinci does not suffer from it, the figures say that it has been invested, independent of the accelerator, in the laboratory equipment of Vince more than in the last 5-6 years. The numbers say that in the next month, Vinci will get a million dollars for one lab and two million dollars for two more laboratories next year. These three laboratories you're talking about will be formed in a building we're planning to renovate, independent of the accelerator. I'm not setting up a dilemma or -- or. So we're going to finish the accelerator for the needs of our health care and research, we're going to form three new laboratories, we're going to equip Vinci, transform it into efficient by world standards. I invite you, when it's over, and I think it'll be within a year, to visit and determine the difference. They were alive, and they saw it. They speak best of things, not of words. I've worked my whole life in an area where I'm just making works, not words. So what I'm saying is, it's going to be realized and people in Vinci know it and they don't need whisperers like this that say anything else. You're saying that natural sciences are at stake here. I have to say, all the projects in physics, chemistry, biology were accepted at 95-98%, and that means anyone who had to report the project was accepted by our ministry, because it wasn't our goal to punish those who hadn't prepared a good proposal for the first three years. Our goal was to help them, to put them on our feet and bring them to a level that they could compete competitively in the future. Therefore, no natural science project has been compromised. And to take special care of natural sciences, ask physicists who are today at the largest European research centre in Geneva, which is CR, we have two groups of scientists who spend time there in research, participate in one project that is the largest in the world, which should answer the question of what is nature of matter. It's one huge cyclotron underground. I've visited it, it's in a radius of 27 kilometers and it's partially crossing the French territory. That's where our scientists work, and we pay for it. Instead of paying in dollars, like everyone else, we made an arrangement to pay for our industry by delivering certain components that are built into these devices. That way, instead of the money going abroad, we gave the flag tools, we gave Gossi, and we employ our industry. They, fortunately, work very well, and prove that our industry can be involved in such European research projects and investments. In addition to research organizations, we want to place our businesses as well. Therefore, we have prominent researchers and we support them and no one in natural science feels any trouble over that accelerator. It's a story for people like you who aren't informed, but people who deal with this area can confirm it. As for nuclear fuel, I think there's another, least said, misunderstanding. When fuel was purchased in the '50s, it was worth 3.5 million dollars. Part of it's been spent, part of it's left. We set it up with an arrangement to give Russia, and instead of paying a few million dollars to lower its level of radioactivity, we got 5.7 million and got pulled from the international Atomic Energy Agency, a total of 10.3. So instead of spending two or three million dollars and watching what we're doing with it again, and we don't need it, we got $10.3 million on the other side to remove that waste. I think the money is even secondary here, we got very good political points, because we proved very responsible in the international community and yesterday came the result where we contributed (not just us, and other ministries, and government policy), and that is the abolition of special customs duties and we are now the most privileged nation as any other. So, we got diplomatic points, political points, and by the way, we started solving our environmental problem, which is evident. I really don't know if it's bad or good, and if someone thinks they could sell it for a few dozen million dollars, I invite them to show me that buyer, unless it's Al-Qaeda. It's not batteries, it's that it looks like a battery, but you can't sell it on a free market, it's against all international regulations, and if you don't need to return it to the country you bought it from. Everything else is illegal. And the price on the official market is much lower. The cost of buying 20% of the fuel is $700,000. We can only speculate how much it costs, but it certainly isn't more than $10,000, especially tens of millions of dollars. I'd ask those genius economists who think they can make money to just explain who they'd sell to, under what conditions and see what they'd do. This way we created the conditions to solve the ecological problem in Vinci and we will solve it. You cited the problem of rewarding the project manager. It's exactly one of the newspapers we're introducing, for the first time someone's ranked projects during the phase of their realization. After a year of research, we said -- let's do project rankings, as many results as possible, published works, and less investment, the fewer research months, that's the ranking formula. Now, on the basis of this formula, a ranking list has been created. As far as the objections are concerned here, it's completely something else. We asked project managers to report every three months, in a way that was prescribed, by sending one file that gives us all the information on the project. Two-thirds of the researchers didn't send it, and we decided that those managers who regularly do their jobs -- and that's a one-hour job in three months -- to fill in very short information about what's going on on the project and send it to us -- we reward every month. So we reward the management and administration of the project, and by no means the scientific results of the project in this way. It's a completely different story. It's a story about project management. We're planning to reward the scientific results after the second year, but you see, there's a problem here. So let's say, you've listed exactly the first project, I have here an e-mail that criticises it and says, yes, this gentleman is the first, there are four researchers, two researchers working abroad, and they show the results that they're doing there, and not with us, they have 12 papers, so without them, they'd have four, and of those four in two, researchers from abroad again. So, only two papers are the result of their work here. So any ranking and grading is risky and we're trying to remove these anomalies, but you know that we're trying to identify the best and reward them, and that's one of the efforts. You say we're talking about the future. We're talking about future law, we're talking about a strategy, and I'm telling you what we've been doing in the last 12 months. All this stuff that I was saying on the website, and if you don't know it's a very big piece of work, you come up with a reform, you make political documents, the concept of it, to prepare a bill, and that's what a lot of scientists and experts did. We have 15 expert groups at the Ministry and the result of one-year work of all of them is concentrated on a few-tenths of pages. If it's something that's not a result of your work, you think it's a story, I apologize to you, I appreciate their work and effort, and I think it's our duty to introduce you to that work. It is, at the very end of the line, something that we will discuss when it comes to the agenda of this assembly and on this basis, we will start to transform all institutes and reform scientific and research potentials next year. So all we've been saying here are the results that have been achieved and for which there are certain figures and evidence. I would like to invite you to visit the Ministry of Science, I would very much like to receive you, talk to you, introduce you to all the problems, and we have problems, and I hope that in that way you would be quite different here to make your remarks and realize that we have done a good job. I thank you for your patience.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-04-0.u34212	The word has a Minister of Education, Mr. Gašo Knezevic, and then a Minister of Faith, Mr. Vojislav Milovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-04-0.u34213	This is the answer not to Mr Domazette, but to Mrs Pop-Lazic who was just reading some text from Impuls magazine. The former ministries had the custom of even recommending schools to buy certain magazines. That ended this ministry. We gave our agreement last calendar year to Mr. Boris Stajkovec on the Impuls release and on the publishing program, and that's all. We cannot control the content, as we cannot control the content of any other magazine published by Mira Aleckovic "dragon" or something else. We consider schools to be full - time, so we leave them to schools to decide which magazines they buy. In addition to assuming that some publishers distribute their magazines to schools, these magazines can be found at kiosks. I think the source of this magazine is this very place, not the school, and I don't know what the success of this magazine Impuls is in schools. In any case, consent is given to the publishing program and nothing else. On the other hand, there is one serious question raised by Mrs Pop-Lazic. It's true that in our elementary schools girls stay in a different state, and it's true that fathers are also their friends from school benches. It's true that in our schools, we've done research, there's a certain extent of drug use. It is not and cannot be the task and responsibility of the government and the Ministry of Education alone to fight it. All possible actions are being taken. The introduction of health care is one of the ways to address the problem. In the context of health education, children in primary and secondary schools will be presented and matter whose purpose is to prevent premature conception, to normally enter into any type of relationship and to prevent, reduce and if the use of narcotics and similar means can be eradicated. So in one part of the topic is very serious and she deserves a lot of conversation, but I don't think this place is right now.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-04-0.u34214	Minister Milovanovic agreed to receive the word from the People's MP, Zaharija Trnavcevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-04-0.u34215	I would also like to have Mrs. Proposer sit here for a vote of no confidence to the government, because many of the things I intend to say will be addressed to her and to the motions for the government's impeachment. Before that, I want to say that tonight I speak here first as a citizen, as a journalist, and only then as a MP. What I'm about to say here tonight is I've said countless times on the street to the citizens who, in connection with this discussion at the National Assembly, have spoken to me. What's this about? Since world and century, since the first government in any country has been established, one government has been assessed by the effect of taking over powers from the previous government. Everybody knows that. However, they dare not apply that criterion when they judge this government. Why? Because this comparison is catastrophic to the damage of the promoter. It's enough for five minutes, and less than that, to tell what the government found and what it's done on January 25th 2001. In other words, did she reverse that condition she encountered, did she stay on the same thing or did she promote it? That was the word here, and I'll do it again. We inherited a shortage, hyperinflation, mistrust in banks, lack of foreign reserve, war, refugees. Gentlemen, to vote no confidence in the government, you know very well that this country will never again wage war with neighbouring nations and nations. That arsenal of rusty spoons of yours, your dukes, goes to a dark part of our history. You know this well and therefore do not apply this only correct and only objective criterion when assessing the impact of this government. If you, as proponents, who are participants and creators and who have failed this country, didn't do it, I'm really surprised why this other part of it didn't do it and that it even filed a request. They may still have a chance to assess this government in this way, those who have the word "democratic" in their own name. It's democratic, let's see if the inflation rate found in October 2000 is larger or smaller; is the purchasing power of the population larger or smaller; is there lines for milk and bread? That's what citizens know. (A voice from the O.R.: Is the current more expensive? It is more expensive, but that's why there's no darkness. In this country today, life is better than it was when you ruled and ruled this Serbia. But it doesn't live the way the citizens would like it and how they could live. For what? Because the government, since January 2001, nearly two or three months ago, has been inventorying and saluting the collapse that has remained behind you. It's not quite over yet, because every day it turns out that one company is rotten, incompetent, with no perspective for life. Some MPs who belong to the promoters brought in their purses at the beginning of last year to stick "DOS is the worst". I said it would be true if you and the SPS didn't exist. You are the ethalon of evil and destruction. What I'm saying is, everything is awkward for you, and you can't listen. I challenge you, challenge you, invite you to make an hour's worth of what the government has found and what it has done. You're in no condition. You don't have the guts to do that. I do not argue and I have never claimed that the government of late Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic and Zoran Zivkovic has been working impeccably. But when what she has done in these circumstances has been assessed so far, she must get not only a transitional grade, but also trust and MPs in the Assembly, and especially citizens who can't forget the disaster they've been living in for ten years. A proposing official has said several times that this government is stealing, that it is the government of thieves. Do you know who he is and what he calls the greatest thief the history of Serbs has ever remembered? It's the government you supported, which you did. You stole ten years of every living thing in this country. Considering that in ten years, the other world has progressed, our countermeasures are at the age of 20 and 30. We have in every respect lost step, lost technology, market, allies. Your allies were Žirinski, Jean Marie Lepen, Lukashenko, etc. They were allies of this country. Why am I saying this? Deaf whispers aren't worth it, not even a dead end. What I'm saying, I'm saying for the citizens. The citizens didn't forget all this how they lived while you were in power. I am convinced that in the elections, which will be and which are to come, they will support progress, reform and will not agree to you leading them again, to continue the disaster they have lived in for ten years. I will, I promise, work a lot, explain to the citizens that this is not a question of Star-Partizan, Real-Partizan; it is a question of fate. They must remember who they've entrusted fate to since Milosevic came to power, how he played it, and used it not to repeat that mistake. I'm sorry that the lady who wanted to compete with Fidel Castro here, she just said that, she didn't hear it all. She gave a speech on the first day of the day for two and a half hours and didn't make a single argument. You haven't said a single positive thing about this government, either. You're still standing up in line for milk, you're buying fuel, ma'am, on the street, in liters still arriving new refugees, coming the dead children from the battlefield, all the things you, the Duke sons, have been doing. It's still going on. It's all in your heads. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-04-0.u34216	Right on line, MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-04-0.u34217	With great respect for the status of the MP and the right of the MP to express his personal position, the position of his parliamentary group, with respect for the years of my predecessor and respect for the fact that he recently received the prize for life's work, it was probably this deciding incentive to finally hear the old repertoire. We've heard of rusty spoons and forks and nothing further. We heard a general confusion when it was hyperinflation and we heard that in 2000 there was a war. You're still at war. You'd have to get in touch with your foreign sponsors. You know, this DOS constellation is for single use. That time is over. With respect to your age, believe me, Serbia will never again have DOS. In Serbia, there will never be a repeat scenario of focused hatred on all sides for other people's interests. You didn't talk about your interests, you didn't talk about the interests of Serbian citizens, you talked about the interests of those who bombed us and those who wanted to make Belgrade pasture. If you're the only ones who don't see that living up in Serbia in 2003 but in 2000, then I can't help you. But you probably heard our citizens say no more - good morning, but - when will you leave? I am merely expressing my gratitude and patience to the citizens of Serbia for having endured for three years and finally finding out what democracy, misery, destruction, violation of dignity is. Believe me, no one will ever round the "d" again. You got sick of everybody. I'm truly sorry you won't last the other day, but none of you could have destroyed the Belgrade circle of two better. You have destroyed that paradigm of those mercenaries and I am glad that you reminded the citizens of Serbia that there is still a division of patriots and traitors. Every word you said was clearly defined by you and recognized where you were. We're not where Hackerup is, we're not where Schrader is, where Jamie Shay is. We didn't dress uniforms to take pictures during NATO aggression. Those who wore uniforms as civilians did not serve the army will receive indictments from the UN tribunal very quickly, as well as Mihajlovic... (President: I warn you of overstepping allowed time. )......................................................................................................... In a few days.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-04-0.u34218	Right on line, MP Zoran Angelkovic. Please address with respect for the MPs and respect for the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-04-0.u34219	I thought so far the president of the Assembly would warn about this hate speech by Mr Trnavcevic, but if you think it's not hate speech when you talk about the 1,800,000 citizens who voted for the SPS in September 2000, that they are evil for Serbia, then I must tell you that you are only the vermin of Serbia. And the vermin of Serbia will leave the political scene of Serbia, because today it has shown that you are adorned by hate speech, not a speech of co-operation and trying to solve some useful things for Serbia. You will be driven out of this political scene by Serbia, because you say that Albanian terrorists are neighbouring people, not citizens of Serbia, because you are talking about Kosovo being a neighbouring country, because you say you will not war with neighbours, they are citizens of Serbia. You will be driven away because you want to be led by those who led the lamb brigades in Serbia, by "Knowledge and Property" and ate the lambs in this Serbia. You will leave because you lied too much to the citizens of Serbia. And you only lied to them once and never again. Just in the end, you know what. No wonder you're talking like this, because here we heard today that you're having a bigger problem with political opponents in Serbia than terrorists in Kosovo. And this morning and this afternoon, we heard that you had bigger political opponents from the Serbian Parliament, opposition than your opponents were those who killed children and women in Kosovo and Metohija. Because you're saying they weren't protected by soldiers and cops and that they weren't supposed to be protected, so they wouldn't be bombed. That's what this MP was saying today. May it serve you honor. That's what it says about you. As far as we're concerned, we'll still be working for Serbia's benefit today. We won't speak hate, we won't hate anyone. We will love everyone, but we will tell you the truth, what you do wrong and what you do to Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-04-0.u34220	Replication rights, MP Bojan Pajtic, president of the DOS parliamentary group - Serbia's Reform.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-04-0.u34221	The Honorable Chairman. You, ladies and gentlemen, were required to protect the Serbs in Krajina according to the Vens-Oven plan. I was hoping you'd never mention the Serbian people for this pay phone again. You had an obligation, and you forced people to enter the war, you had an international obligation to protect them, the command was when the Croatian army started - retreating. Never in history has the entire population of a single territory retreated before the army's worst. The same situation was in Kosovo. Did we sign the Dayton Agreement? Did we sign the Kumanian Agreement? Where you defended Serbs, gentlemen, there is no more Serbs. As you are now withdrawing, so you told the Serbs in Krajina to withdraw and they could never return. These are the results of your policy and such policies will never be in this country.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-04-0.u34222	Do you want to use the line, break a little Rules of Procedure, because we've been over 1800 hours? Here you are, MP dean mihail.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-04-0.u34223	I think that the citizens of Serbia from these discussions, by their replicas and by the discussion of Zahari Trnavcevic, could see and tell what they wanted and what they didn't want; in 2000, they said they didn't want what was until 2000, the power of the SPS, the SRS, give them the opportunity to say in the next elections that they didn't want this until 2003. Both sides are the same medals, which do not change the system, medals that seek to abuse all the levers of the authorities they inherited in 2000. These discussions are the best example, it may be good that you broke the Rules of Procedure and gave the word to Mr Pajtic before you gave it to me, and the citizens could see for themselves what we are saying and the need for extraordinary parliamentary elections. I'm just afraid there won't be time for the DSS to explain its initiative to vote for mistrust, which will be far more supported by concrete data and explanations, what this government didn't do, what it had to do. We all know what we inherited, and we all know what was done in these three years. There are shifts compared to what we inherited in 2000. That's not controversial. The question is whether it was enough and whether it could have been more, whether more had to be done and whether there was a willingness for citizens to agree to do more than they did. Yes, there was, and it had to be done more. That's what Mr. Zechariah Trnavcevic is talking about, and he will confirm it. Why he supported DSS presidential candidate Dr Vojislav Kostunica in the presidential elections last year, although his party backed and DOS supported Miroljub Labus, whose MP he was. Did he see by then that the presidential candidate and coalition he belonged to did not produce results, so he supported presidential candidate Dr Vojislav Kostunica? And these are the indicators to talk about, and these are the facts to say, that this government has to go, but only I am sorry, that I will repeat, which, apparently, the elections will be called before we can explain our initiative and give more than enough arguments that this government will leave this assembly, because it did not deserve better, given that the evidence of corruption in the government itself has been obtained from the Prime Minister, his request that Maria Raseta-Vukasavljevic be resolved. Such demands will be made and you know very well yourself, and therefore the snap elections are something that is inevitable, for Serbian citizens to say -- no, before 2000, not before 2003, or for those who brought us here.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-04-0.u34224	The word is made by the Prime Minister, Mr. Zoran Zivkovic. We were left to listen to you, you agreed to violate the Rules of Procedure when it was in your interest.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-04-0.u34225	It's not a replica, and maybe it is, but if Mr. Michael had come out, normally I wouldn't tell him, because he knows it, but I'm telling the viewers who have less time to get to know him. It is possible that Mr. Zaharija Trnavcevic recognized that Mr. Labus cannot win and that it is not what Serbia needs at that time, in October and December of last year, and that he gave his trust, publicly, to the candidate Kostunica, but that Kostunica then betrayed him, at least twice. The last time he didn't run for new elections, where Mr. Trnavcevic would, I tell you, and the Democratic Party supports Kostunica to run for office, to finish the job. That's what we offered last year, if you remember. But, not to question corruption, I have asked for the resolution of the minister of traffic and telecommunications because of conflicts of interest which has not yet been defined by positive legal regulations, but is imposed as a natural situation. When I catch someone in corruption, I file criminal charges, and I don't ask for his shift. And it's been happening so far, and there's a lot of examples for that, unfortunately, those criminal charges haven't been all activated yet, and it's talking about one part of the judiciary. I just want to say in the end that I asked if you wanted to keep working while me and the two ministers weren't here. I think the answer is that, if you wanted, no one said that the debate was interrupted. Then I wish you a successful debate, I want the other ministers to give you all the information about what the government has done in the last three years, because so far they have not had the opportunity, and in my absence, the Deputy Prime Minister who will be here to answer in my name will be Mr. Koraq, who was normally the most regular of vice presidents in these three or four days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-11-04-0.u34226	We'll continue work tomorrow at 10.00 hours. Goodbye. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the First Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2003. Please insert identification cards into your MPs to determine the quorum. I understand we have a quorum to work with. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the following MPs: Stanko Kovacevic, Petar Misic, Marijan Risticevic, Bojan Kostreš, Miroslav Markicevic and Pal Shandor. I would like to inform the National Assembly that they have been invited to attend the sittings of the President, Vice-Presidents, Ministers and Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. We move to the 2nd item of the agenda: – Proposal for a PUBLICATION OF UNUPPROVAL TO THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA (continuing) The Word has the mandated representative of the parliamentary group of the Party of Serbian Unity, MP Borislav Pelevic, the violation of the Rules of Procedure.
