ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-17-0.u31311	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the Eighth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2003. I find that the application of the electronic system has established that we have a quorum for work and decision-making. We would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the following MPs: Marko Jaksic and Jelena Milenkovic-Orlic. Since the National Assembly completed the debate on the draft law on the basis of the education and education system, we are moving to a decision-making session on the eighth extraordinary session in 2003. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: – I am putting the draft law on the basis of the education and education system, in principle, on the basis of the draft law on the basis of the education and education system. For 111 against 42, the abstentions were not voted by three, out of 156 members of parliament. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. I remind you that the amendments have been withdrawn by the MPs: [[in session of the Education Committee]] I also remind you that, on the basis of Article 142 paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure were not the subject of amendments by MP Vlasimir Budimovic to Article 108, which was rejected by the Legislative Committee, as incomplete and amended by MP Zelx Huric to members 60, 61, 63, 67, 83 and 122, rejected by the Legislative Committee, as untimely. We approach the amendment decision. National MP Veroljub Arsic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments tabled together by the MPs Rada Bajic and Toma Busetic on Article 2. I conclude the vote: for one, against 114 abstentions, there were no 47 votes, of 162 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting amendments to article 2, with a correction, together with MPs Branislav Ivkovic, Dragan Tomic, Stevan Guduric, Zoran D. Nikolic, Slobodan Tomović and Milan Stankovic. I conclude the vote: for one, against 110, the abstentioned, no vote was taken 51, of 162 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments tabled by MP Branislav Blazic on Article 3. I conclude the vote: no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I would like to put the amendments tabled together by MPs Nenad Lemajic, Milan Radulovic, Bojana Alexic, Vladimir Andric and Marina Stamenkovic. I conclude the vote: for 30, against 102 abstentions, 27 of the 159 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendment to article 4, with correction, submitted by MP Pal Shandor. I conclude the vote: for three, against 97, the two abstentions, the vote was not 60, of 162 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Vakic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for there was no, against 103 abstentions, there was no vote 58, of a total of 161 MPs. I regret that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting amendments to article 4 with the correction together by MPs Branislav Ivkovic, Dragan Tomic, Stevan Guduric, Zoran D. Nikolic, Slobodan Tomović and Milan Stankovic. I conclude the vote: for two, against 100, one was abstentioned, 59 of the 162 MPs did not vote. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to article 5 with the correction together by MPs Branislav Ivkovic, Dragan Tomic, Stevan Guduric, Zoran D. Nikolic, Slobodan Tomović and Milan Stankovic. I conclude the vote: for there was no, against 104 abstentions, 59 of the 163 MPs did not vote. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. I am putting to vote the amendments submitted to article 6 by MP Pal Shandor. I conclude the vote: for 11, against 90, with four abstentions, there were no 58 votes, out of 163 MPs. I regret that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments tabled by MP Slobodan Janjic to article 6. I conclude the vote: there were no, against 99, abstentions, no vote of 64, of 163 MPs. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting amendments to article 6 with the correction together by MPs Branislav Ivkovic, Dragan Tomic, Stevan Guduric, Zoran D. Nikolic, Slobodan Tomović and Milan Stankovic. I conclude the vote: for nine, against 97, there were no abstentions, 57 of the 163 MPs did not vote. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. I am putting on the vote of the amendment, which was passed by MP Pal Shandor to article 7 with correction. I would like to remind you that the proposer's representative has accepted this amendment. I conclude the vote: 110, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I regret that the National Assembly has accepted the amendment of MP Pal Shandor to article 7. I am putting on the vote for amendments submitted to article 7 by MP Vera Markovic. I conclude the vote: for 10, against 90, with five abstentions, it did not vote 66, out of 171 MPs. I regret that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting to vote the amendments tabled by MP Srboljub Zivanovic to article 7. I conclude the vote: for there was no, against 103 abstentions, there was no vote 71, out of 173 MPs. I regret that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments tabled by MP Zlatan Jovanovic on 10th. I conclude the vote: for there was no, against 103 abstentions, there was no vote 74, out of 177 MPs. I regret that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting on the vote of amendments, which were submitted together by MPs Đura Lazić and Sreten Mitrović, together with the correction of MPs Branislav Ivković, Dragan Tomic, Stevan Gudurić, Zoran D. Nikolic, Slobodan Tomović and Milan Stankovic. I conclude the vote: for 13, against 99, there were no abstentions, 68 of the 180 MPs did not vote. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to the 10th Amendment vote together by MPs Nenad Lemajic, Milan Radulovic, Bojana Alexic, Vladimir Andric and Marina Stamenkovic. I conclude the vote: for 31, against 97, the abstentions were not, 54 of the 182 MPs voted. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments tabled together by MPs Dragan Jovanovic and Nebojsa Jovic on Article 11. I would like to remind you that the proposer's representative has accepted this amendment. I conclude the vote: for 130, against two, one was abstentioned, 48 of the 181 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the amendment to Article 11 submitted by MPs Dragan Jovanovic and Nebojsa Jovic. I am putting on the vote for amendments tabled by Parliament MP Vera Markovic on Article 12. I conclude the vote: for 24, against 81, with two abstentions, did not vote 75, out of 182 MPs. I regret that this amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments tabled by national MP Natasa Jovanovic on Article 12. I conclude the vote: for there were no, against 109 abstentions, there were no 77 votes, out of 186 MPs. I regret that this amendment has not been accepted. I am putting on the vote for amendments submitted to article 12 by Natasa Milojevic. I would like to remind you that the proposer's representative has accepted this amendment. I conclude the vote: for 109 against 9, one was abstentioned, not voted 66, out of 185 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the amendment of the National Parliament of Natasha Milojevic to Article 12. It's a bill of law. I would like to put the amendments tabled together by MPs Marko Culibrk and Nebojsa Jovic on Article 12. I conclude the vote: for 17, against 109 abstentions, there was no vote of 59, out of 185 MPs. I declare that this amendment has not been accepted I am putting to the vote amendments which, on Article 12, have been submitted jointly by MPs Branislav Ivkovic, Dragan Tomic, Stevan Guduric, Zoran D. Nikolic, Slobodan Tomovic and Milan Stankovic. I conclude the vote and declare: for two, against 109 abstentions, there are no 75 votes, a total of 186 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting amendments to the title above members and Article 12 together by MPs Nenad Lemajic, Milan Radulovic, Bojana Alexic, Vladimir Andric and Marina Stamenkovic. I conclude the vote and declare: for 32, against 106, the abstentions, no vote was taken by 49, a total of 187 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting amendments to the title above the members and Article 13 together by MPs Nenad Lemajic, Milan Radulovic, Bojana Alexic, Vladimir Andric and Marina Stamenkovic. I conclude the vote and declare: for 29, against 95, the abstentions, they did not vote 63, a total of 187 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to the title above the member and Article 14. by MP Petar Jojic. I conclude the vote and declare that there are no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting to vote the amendments tabled by MP Natasa Milojevic to article 14. I conclude the vote and declare: for 103, against five, a abstentioned one, did not vote 81, a total of 190 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. I am putting the amendments to the title above the member and Article 15 to be tabled by MP Stevan Kesejic. I conclude the vote and declare that there are no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to the vote, which were tabled jointly by MPs Nenad Lemajic, Milan Radulovic, Bojana Alexic, Vladimir Andric and Marina Stamenkovic. I conclude the vote and declare: for 32, against 104 abstentions, no vote was made by 55, a total of 191 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put amendments to Article 16, which were submitted in the same text by the MPs: together Branislav Ivković, Dragan Tomic, Stevan Gudurić, Zoran D. Nikolic, Slobodan Tomović and Milan Stankovic; together Dragan Todorovic and Dusan Cvetkovic and MP Ljubomir Kragović. I conclude the vote and declare that nine, against 109 abstentions, have not voted 73, a total of 191 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments tabled by MP Vlasimir Budimovic on Article 16. I conclude the vote and declare: 22, v. 86, abstention one, were not voted by 82, a total of 191 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting to vote the amendments tabled by MP Natasa Milojevic to Article 16. I conclude the vote and declare that for 111, against four, abstention four, there were no votes of 73, a total of 192 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. I am putting amendments to the vote, which were submitted to Article 17, in the same text, by the MPs: together Branko Ružić and Jovan Todorovic, together Branislav Ivković, Dragan Tomic, Stevan Gudurić, Zoran D. Nikolic, Slobodan Tomović and Milan Stankovic and MP Zoran Krasic. I conclude the vote and declare: 21, against 108, the abstentions, were not voted on by 64, a total of 193 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I would like to put the amendments to the title above the members and the article 18 tabled by MP Dragan Ljubojevic. I conclude the vote and declare that there are no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to the title above the members and the article 19th to the vote by MP Lazar Marjanski. I conclude the vote and declare that there are no, no, no 107, abstentions, no 87, a total of 194 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting the amendments tabled together by MPs Miomir Ilic and Milan Jankovic on Article 19. I conclude the vote and declare: for 14, against 104 abstentions, there are no 76 votes, a total of 194 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting to vote the amendments tabled by Parliament MP Milorad Mircic on Article 20. I conclude the vote, and I declare that there are no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments tabled by MP Dragan Pavlovic to article 21. I conclude the vote and declare that there are no, no, no 102 abstentions, no 91 votes, a total of 193 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to the title above the member and the 22nd member of the Parliament of the People's Republic of Radet. I conclude the vote and declare that there are no, no, no 104 abstentions, no 90 votes, a total of 194 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to Article 22 to the vote, with the corrections submitted jointly by MPs Branislav Ivkovic, Dragan Tomic, Stevan Guduric, Zoran D. Nikolic, Slobodan Tomović and Milan Stankovic. I conclude the vote and declare: for one, against 107, the abstentions did not vote 84, a total of 192 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to the title above the members and to Article 23 were submitted by MP Milovanovic. I conclude the vote: for there was no, against 113 abstentions, there was no vote 78, of a total of 191 MPs. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to the title above the members and to Article 24 by MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic. I conclude the vote: there were no, against 105, abstentions, no 89 votes, of a total of 194 MPs. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting the amendments to the title above the members and the 25th MP Goran Cvetanovic tabled. I conclude the vote: there were no, against 108, abstentions, no 86 votes, of a total of 194 MPs. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting the amendments to the title above the members and on article 26 by MP Dragan Colic. I conclude the vote: there was no, against 108, abstention one, no 84 vote, of a total of 193 MPs. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I would like to put the amendments to the title above the member and to Article 27, submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. I conclude the vote: there were no, against 108, abstentions, no 86 votes, of a total of 194 MPs. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting to vote the amendments tabled together by MPs Rajko Baralic and Zivodarka Dacin on Article 27. I conclude the vote: for 17, against 98, two abstentions, 77 did not vote, out of 194 MPs. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to the 27th vote together by the MPs Nenad Lemajic and others. The applicant's representative accepted this amendment. I conclude the vote: for 141 against three, the abstentions were not voted 52, out of 196 MPs. I declare that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. I put the amendment tabled by MP Veroljub Arsic on 28th. I conclude the vote: for one, against 114 abstentions, there were no, no 82 votes, of a total of 197 MPs. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting the amendments to the 28th vote together by the MPs Nenad Lemajic and others. I conclude the vote: for 34, against 105, a abstentioned one, did not vote 58, out of a total of 198 MPs. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting on the vote for amendments submitted by MP Branislav Blazic to article 32. I conclude the vote: for there were no, against 110, abstentions, there was no vote of 86, out of 196 MPs. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments, which were submitted together by the MPs Bora Stanimirović and Zarko Obradovic, on Article 32. I conclude the vote: for 17, against 108, a abstentioned one, did not vote 69, out of 195 MPs. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments, which were submitted together by the MPs Radojko Petric and Golub Rajic, on Article 34. I conclude the vote: for 17, against 110, the abstentions were not, did not vote 69, out of 196 MPs. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting to vote the amendments submitted by MP Zlatan Jovanovic to article 39. I conclude the vote: for there was, against 107, a abstention one, no 88 vote, of a total of 196 MPs. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting on the vote for amendments submitted by MP Branislav Vakic on the 40th. I conclude the vote: for there were no, against 110, abstentions, there was no vote of 86, out of 196 MPs. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to the title above the members and to the article 41st, submitted by MP Ljubomir Kragovic. I conclude the vote: there were no, against 108, abstentions, no 84 votes, of a total of 192 MPs. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting the amendments to the title above the member and the article 42th by MP Stevan Kesejic. I conclude the vote: there were no, against 106, abstentions, no 88 votes, of a total of 194 MPs. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting on the vote for amendments submitted by MP Srboljub Zivanovic to article 43. I conclude the vote: for there was no, against 102 abstentions, there was no vote 93, out of 195 MPs. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting on the vote for amendments submitted by MP Slobodan Janjic to article 44. I conclude the vote: for there was no, against 103 abstentions, there was no, there was no 92 vote, out of 195 MPs. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting to vote the amendments tabled by MP Natasa Jovanovic as member of the 47th. I conclude the vote: for one against 103 abstentions, 89 of the 193 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting on the vote for amendments submitted by MP Petar Jojic to article 54. I conclude the vote: no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting amendments to the vote on Article 54, with correction, together with Members of Parliament Branislav Ivkovic, Dragan Tomic, Stevan Guduric, Zoran D. Nikolic, Slobodan Tomović and Milan Stankovic. I conclude the vote: for one, against 108, a abstentioned one, did not vote 83, out of 193 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendment tabled by MP Zoran Krasic as member of 57th. I conclude the vote: no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting to vote the amendments tabled by National MP Natasa Milojevic on Article 57. I conclude the vote: 10 against 96, three abstentions, no 85 votes, of 194 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to the 57th joint vote by MPs Nenad Lemajic, Milan Radulovic, Bojana Alexic, Vladimir Andric, Marina Stamenkovic. I would like to remind you that the proposer's representative has accepted this amendment. I conclude the vote: for 143, against one, a abstentioned one, did not vote 50, out of 195 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. I am putting on the vote for amendments submitted by MP Dragan Ljubojevic to article 59. I conclude the vote: for 20, against 106, the abstentioned, did not vote 69, out of 195 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments, which were submitted together by MPs Hrasnilav Peric and Jovan Todorovic, on Article 59. I conclude the vote: for 18, v 107, a abstentioned one, did not vote 72, out of 198 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting amendments to the vote on Article 59, with correction, together with MPs Branislav Ivkovic, Dragan Tomic, Stevan Guduric, Zoran D. Nikolic, Slobodan Tomović and Milan Stankovic. I conclude the vote: for one, against 110, the abstentions, there was no vote of 86, out of 197 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I would like to vote on the amendments tabled by MP Lazar Marjanski on Article 60. I conclude the vote: for one against 103 abstentions, there is no 94 vote, out of 198 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments, which were submitted together by MPs Dusan Cvetkovic and Hranislav Peric, on Article 60. I conclude the vote: for 11, v 107, the two abstentions, did not vote 77, out of 197 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to the 60th joint vote by MPs Nenad Lemajic, Milan Radulovic, Bojana Alexic, Vladimir Andric and Marina Stamenkovic. I conclude the vote: for 35, against 105, the abstentions were not voted 57, out of 197 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to the 61st vote together by MPs Bora Stanimirovic and Hranislav Peric. I conclude the vote: for 14, against 108, the abstentions, did not vote 76, out of 198 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting to vote the amendments tabled by Parliament MP Milorad Mircic on Article 62. I conclude the vote: for one, against 100, the abstentioned did not vote 97, out of 198 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting to the vote the amendments tabled by MP Natasa Milojevic: for 14, v 97, abstention one, did not vote 86, out of 198 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to the 63rd vote together by the MPs Ljubomir Mucic and Jovan Todorovic. I conclude the vote: for 19, against 103 abstentions, there are no 76 votes, out of 198 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to the 63rd vote together by MPs Nenad Lemajic, Milan Radulovic, Bojana Alexic, Vladimir Andric and Marina Stamenkovic. I conclude the vote: for 31, against 107, the abstentioned, did not vote 61, out of 199 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting to vote the amendments tabled by National MP Natasa Milojevic on article 64. I conclude the vote: for 16, v. 89, a abstentioned one, did not vote 93, out of 199 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting amendments to the vote on article 64, with correction, together with MPs Branislav Ivkovic, Dragan Tomic, Stevan Guduric, Zoran D. Nikolic, Slobodan Tomović and Milan Stankovic. I conclude the vote: for one against 102 abstentions, 96 of the 199 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments tabled by MP Dragan Pavlovic to article 70. I conclude the vote: for 3, v. 106, a abstentioned one, did not vote 89, out of 199 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting on the vote of amendments submitted jointly by MPs Petar Petrovic, Dragica Radulovic, Milos Lukic, Đuro Popovic and Adam Urosevic. I conclude the vote: for 11, against 106, the abstentions were not, was not voted 83, of the 200 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting amendments to the vote, which were submitted jointly by the MPs Nenad Lemajic, Milan Radulovic, Bojana Alexic, Vladimir Andric and Marina Stamenkovic. I conclude the vote: for 15, against 106, the abstentions were not, did not vote 79, out of 200 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting amendments to the vote on Article 87, with correction, together with MPs Branislav Ivkovic, Dragan Tomic, Stevan Guduric, Zoran Nikolic, Slobodan Tomovic and Milan Stankovic. I conclude the vote: for one against 103 abstentions, there was no vote of 96, out of 200 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to the 87th vote together by MPs Nenad Lemajic, Milan Radulovic, Bojana Alexic, Vladimir Andric and Marina Stamenkovic. I conclude the vote: for 31, against 94, there were no abstentions, there was no 74 vote, out of 199 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting to vote the amendments submitted to article 88 by MP Pal Shandor. I conclude the vote: for five, against 97, there were no abstentions, there were no 97 votes, out of 199 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting amendments to the vote on Article 88, with correction, together with MPs Branislav Ivkovic, Dragan Tomic, Stevan Guduric, Zoran Nikolic, Slobodan Tomovic and Milan Stankovic. I conclude the vote: for one, against 107, the abstentions were not, did not vote 91, out of 199 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I would like to vote on the amendments tabled by the People's MP, Ms. Radet, on article 91. I conclude the vote: for there was, against 99, a abstentioned one, no vote of 100, of 200 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting to vote the amendments submitted by MP Milovan Radovanovic to article 92. I conclude the vote: there were no, against 107, abstentions, no 93 votes, of 200 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting to vote the amendments submitted to article 95 by MP Pal Shandor. I would like to remind you that the proposer's representative has accepted this amendment. I conclude the vote: for 116, against two, a abstentioned one, did not vote 81, out of 200 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. I am putting on the vote for amendments tabled by MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic on Article 95. I conclude the vote: for it was not, against 106, a abstentioned one, it did not vote 93, out of 200 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting on the vote for amendments submitted by MP Goran Cvetanovic to article 97. I would like to remind you that the proposer's representative has accepted this amendment. I conclude the vote: for 132, against six, abstention one, did not vote 58, out of 197 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. I am putting on the vote by the amendments submitted by MP Dragan Colic to article 99. I conclude the vote: for one, against 108, a abstentioned one, did not vote 87, out of 197 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting amendments to the vote on Article 99, with correction, together with MPs Branislav Ivkovic, Dragan Tomic, Stevan Guduric, Zoran Nikolic, Slobodan Tomovic and Milan Stankovic. I conclude the vote: for one, against 108, a abstentioned one, did not vote 89, out of 199 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to the 99th joint vote by MPs Petar Petrovic, Dragica Radulovic, Milos Lukic, Đuro Popovic and Adam Urosevic. I conclude the vote: for 20, against 103 abstentions, there was no vote 76, out of 199 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting on the vote for amendments submitted by MP Golub Rajic to Article 102. I conclude the vote: for 22, against 109 abstentions, there was no vote of 67, out of 198 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting amendments to article 102, with correction, together with MPs Branislav Ivkovic, Dragan Tomic, Stevan Guduric, Zoran Nikolic, Slobodan Tomovic and Milan Stankovic. I conclude the vote: for two, against 109, a abstentioned one, was not voted 87, out of 199 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting the amendments tabled together by the MPs Nenad Lemajic, Milan Radulovic, Bojana Alexic, Vladimir Andric and Marina Stamenkovic. I would like to remind you that the proposer's representative has accepted this amendment. I conclude the vote: 140, against 4, abstention one, did not vote 54, out of 199 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. I am putting on the vote for amendments submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic to Article 103. I conclude the vote: for one, against 105, a abstentioned one, did not vote 92, out of 199 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting on the vote of amendments submitted jointly by MPs Petar Petrovic, Dragica Radulovic, Milos Lukic, Đuro Popovic and Adam Urosevic. I conclude the vote: for 21, against 105, a abstentioned one, did not vote 72, out of 199 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting the amendments to the same text on article 104, submitted by MP Branislav Blažić and joint MPs Branislav Ivković, Dragan Tomic, Stevan Gudurić, Zoran D. Nikolic, Slobodan Tomović and Milan Stankovic. I conclude the vote: for one, against 102, a abstentioned one, did not vote 96, out of 200 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to the 105th vote together by MPs Branislav Ivković, Dragan Tomic, Stevan Guduric, Zoran D. Nikolic, Slobodan Tomović and Milan Stankovic. I conclude the vote: for three, against 107, the abstentions, there are no 90 votes, out of 200 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I would like to put the amendments tabled together by MPs Radojko Petric and Golub Rajic on Article 112. I conclude the vote: for 31, against 102, a abstentioned one, was not voted 67, out of 201 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting to vote the amendments tabled by National MP Natasa Jovanovic as member of the 113rd. I conclude the vote: for one, against 105, the abstention of three, did not vote 92, out of 201 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting amendments on the table with a correction of 113th, together with MPs Branislav Ivković, Dragan Tomic, Stevan Guduric, Zoran D. Nikolic, Slobodan Tomović and Milan Stankovic. I conclude the vote: for one, against 107, the two abstentions, did not vote 92, of 202 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I would like to vote on the amendments tabled by the People's MP, Ms. Radet, on Article 114. I conclude the vote: no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting amendments to article 114, with corrections, together with Members of Parliament Branislav Ivkovic, Dragan Tomic, Stevan Guduric, Zoran D. Nikolic, Slobodan Tomović and Milan Stankovic. I conclude the vote: for one, against 106, a abstentioned one, was not voted 94, of 202 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am voting on amendments submitted to Article 115 jointly by MPs Branislav Ivković, Dragan Tomic, Stevan Guduric, Zoran D. Nikolic, Slobodan Tomović and Milan Stankovic. I conclude the vote: for one against 104 abstentions, 96 of the 201 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting on the vote for amendments submitted by MP Slobodan Janjic to article 115. I conclude the vote: no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put to the vote the amendments submitted by MPs Branislav Ivković, Dragan Tomic, Stevan Guduric, Zoran D. Nikolic, Slobodan Tomovic and Milan Stankovic, which were proposed to delete members from 116th to 120th with one amendment. I conclude the vote: for one, against 108, the abstentions, did not vote 92, out of 201 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting to vote the amendments tabled by National MP Natasa Milojevic to Article 116. I conclude the vote: for 12, against 90, the abstentions were not voted 100, of 202 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting the amendments tabled together by MPs Branko Ruzic and Rajko Baralic on Article 117. I conclude the vote: for 16, against 102, a abstentioned one, did not vote 83, of 202 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting the amendments to the vote, with the correction, which was submitted to Article 122, jointly by MPs Branislav Ivkovic, Dragan Tomic, Stevan Guduric, Zoran D. Nikolic, Slobodan Tomović and Milan Stankovic. I conclude the vote: no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting on the vote for amendments submitted by MP Zlatan Jovanovic to Article 124. I conclude the vote: no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting the amendments tabled together by MPs Petar Petrovic, Dragica Radulovic, Milos Lukic, Đuro Popovic and Adam Urosevic. I conclude the vote: for 11, against 102 abstentions, there are no 90 votes, of 203 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting on the vote of amendments submitted jointly by the MPs Branislav Ivković, Dragan Tomic, Stevan Guduric, Zoran D. Nikolic, Slobodan Tomović and Milan Stankovic. I would like to remind you that the proposer's representative has accepted this amendment. I conclude the vote: for 108, the four, the abstentioned, did not vote 90, of 202 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. I am putting on the vote for amendments submitted to article 131 by Natasa Milojevic. I conclude the vote: for 13, v. 96, abstentioned two, did not vote 91, of 202 MPs. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I would like to put the amendments tabled by Natasa Milojevic, MP to member 143. I conclude the vote: for 14, v. 87, abstentioned two, 99 did not vote, out of 202 MPs. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting amendments to the 143th Amendment vote together by MPs Branislav Ivković, Dragan Tomic, Stevan Guduric, Zoran D. Nikolic, Slobodan Tomović and Milan Stankovic. I conclude the vote: for four, against 103 abstentions, 95 of the 202 MPs did not vote. I declare that this amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments on the table with the correction of Article 144, together with Members of Parliament Branislav Ivkovic, Dragan Tomic, Stevan Guduric, Zoran D. Nikolic, Slobodan Tomović and Milan Stankovic. I conclude the vote: for four, against 95, one was abstentioned, 100 of the 200 MPs did not vote. I declare that this amendment has not been accepted. I am putting to vote the amendments submitted by MP Zoran Krasic to article 145. I would like to remind you that the proposer's representative has accepted this amendment during the debate. I conclude the vote: 97, against eight, one abstention, 93 did not vote, out of 199 MPs. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting on the vote for amendments submitted by MP Dragan Ljubojevic to article 149. I conclude the vote: for there was no, against 109 abstentions, there was no vote of 89, of 198 MPs. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting to vote the amendments submitted by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic to article 151. I conclude the vote: for it was not, against 103 abstentions, there were no votes 92, out of 195 MPs. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments tabled by MP Milovan Radovanovic to Article 152. I conclude the vote: no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting amendments to the 153th Correction vote together by MPs Branislav Ivkovic, Dragan Tomic, Stevan Guduric, Zoran D. Nikolic, Slobodan Tomović and Milan Stankovic. I conclude the vote: for five, against 107, the abstentions were not, 84 of the 196 MPs voted. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to the 155th vote together by MPs Nenad Lemajic, Milan Radulovic, Bojana Alexic, Vladimir Andric and Marina Stamenkovic. I conclude the vote: for 37, against 110, with two abstentions, 48 of the 197 MPs did not vote. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. National MPs Nenad Lemaic and others have jointly submitted an amendment suggesting that a new member of 160 be added after article 160. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for 36, against 110, the abstentions were not, they did not vote 52, out of 198 MPs. I declare that this amendment has not been accepted. I'm putting the amendments on the table, isn't Natasha Milojevic now, and I'm sorry. Amendment 164 or 171 is now up? 164. National MP Natasa Milojevic submitted the amendment to Article 164. I conclude the vote: for 15, against 97, a abstentioned one, did not vote 80, out of 193 MPs. I declare that this amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the 170th vote together by MPs Nenad Lemajic, Milan Radulovic, Bojana Alexic, Vladimir Andric and Marina Stamenkovic. I conclude the vote: for 40, against 109 abstentions, there was no vote of 41 out of the 190 MPs. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to the 171st vote together by MPs Nenad Lemajic, Milan Radulovic, Bojana Alexic, Vladimir Andric and Marina Stamenkovic. I conclude the vote: for 33, against 116, one was abstentioned, 38 of the 188 MPs did not vote. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. I am voting on amendments submitted to Article 172 together by MPs Branislav Ivković, Dragan Tomic, Stevan Guduric, Zoran D. Nikolic, Slobodan Tomović and Milan Stankovic. I conclude the vote: for five, against 112 abstentions, 70 of the 187 MPs did not vote. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments tabled together by MPs Nenad Lemajic, Milan Radulovic, Bojana Alexic, Vladimir Andric and Marina Stamenkovic. I conclude the vote: for 40, against 112, one was abstentioned, 34 of the 187 MPs did not vote. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to the 173rd vote together by MPs Branislav Ivković, Dragan Tomic, Stevan Guduric, Zoran D. Nikolic, Slobodan Tomović and Milan Stankovic. I conclude the vote: for five, against 115, there were no abstentions, 67 of the 187 MPs did not vote. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to the 173th vote together by MPs Nenad Lemajic, Milan Radulovic, Bojana Alexic, Vladimir Andric and Marina Stamenkovic. I conclude the vote: for 38, against 114, one was abstentioned, 34 of the 187 MPs did not vote. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments tabled together by the MPs Nenad Lemajic, Milan Radulovic, Bojana Alexic, Vladimir Andric and Marina Stamenkovic. I conclude the vote: for 39, against 113, one abstention, 32 out of 185 MPs did not vote. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I am putting the draft law on the basis of the system of education and education in general. I ask the Members of Parliament to plead with the vote. I conclude the vote: for 114, against 56, the abstentions were not, was not voted 12, out of 182 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill on the basis of an education and education system. After considering and deciding on the proposal for this law, I conclude the session of the Eighth Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2003. (The session is over at 13.00 hours. )
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-17-0.u31312	THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA National Assembly OF THE STENOGRAPHICAL TEXT THE NINTH EXCELLENT SESSION OF 17 June 2003 (First Day of Work) (The session began at 13.00 hours. The chairman of Natasa Micic, president of the National Assembly. )
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-17-0.u31313	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening a session of the 9th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2003. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, we have a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the following MPs: Marko Jaksic and Jelena Milenkovic-Orlic. I am informing the National Assembly that they have been invited to attend the meetings of the President, Vice-Presidents, Ministers and Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You were presented with records of the 7th and 8th session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2003. As more than 126 MPs attend today's session, I find that there is a quorum for the adoption of the minutes from previous sessions (Article 83(3)). Rules of Procedure. I would like to inform you that the review in the Management Board's work department has established that none of the Members of Parliament has delivered such a written statement of objection to the minutes of those sittings. We're going to make a decision on the records. 1. I am voting on the minutes of the 7th session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2003, held on 13, 14, 15, 20, 21 and 27 May 2003. For 120, 57 of the 177 MPs present were not voted. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the 7th session of the first regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2003 held 13, 14, 15, 20, 21 and 27 May 2003. 2. I am voting on the minutes of the eighth session of the first regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2003, held on 27, 28, 29 and 30 May 2003. For 120, no one with abstentions voted 67, out of 187 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the eighth session of the First Regular National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2003, held on 27, 28, 29 and 30 May 2003. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with a call from the 9th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2003, which was convened at the request of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, pursuant to Article 79(3). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 162. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, you have been sent a request to hold the ninth extraordinary session, with the agenda set out in that request. You have received letters from the Government of the Republic of Serbia since 12 and 16 June 2003, which informs of the change in the order in which the points in the established agenda are discussed. As you could see, for the Ninth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly in 2003, the following Dn e n i d: 1. Proposal for a selection of a member of the Government of the Republic of Serbia; 2. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Organisation and Jurisdiction of State Authorities in combating organised crime; 3. Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Criminal Law of the Republic of Serbia; 4. Proposal for a Law on the Prevention of Violence and Misbehavior at Sports Events; 5. Proposal for a Law on the Organisation and Jurisdiction of State Authorities in the Procedure Against the War Crimes Act; 6. Proposal for a Law on Action Plan on Harmonisation of Economic Systems of the Member States of the State Community of Serbia-Montenegro in order to prevent and remove obstacles to the free movement of people, goods, services and capital. We have a motion to merge the debate. National MP Siniša Mitrovic, based on Article 86. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that a discussion be brought together on the draft law amending the Law on the Organisation and Jurisdiction of State Authorities to combat organised crime, the Proposal for a Law supplementing the Criminal Law of the Republic of Serbia and the Proposal for a Law on the Prevention of Violence and Misbehavior at Sports Events (paragraphs 2, 3 and 4 of the Agenda). I would like to put to the vote the proposal of Parliamentarian Sinisa Mitrovica on the merger of the debates at those points. For 120, against 72, there are no abstentions, five did not vote, a total of 197 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted a proposal to merge the debate tabled by MP Sinisa Mitrovic. As it is proposed that the draft laws under paragraphs 2 and 6 of the agenda be considered by emergency procedure, the committees responsible, if they have not already done so, will submit their reports during the session. We're going to work on the agenda. The word has a folk MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, deputy president of the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-17-0.u31314	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to remind you that on March 18th of this year, the president of the National Assembly, on the basis of Article 108(3), expressed a measure of distance from the session to the head of the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary club, Tomislav Nikolic, that today the fine that lasts 90 days of the meeting has expired, and that today the National Assembly Security Service has not allowed him to enter the hall and attend the work of the National Assembly. I'm advocating a violation of Article 216. The Rules of Procedure of Rule 1 which reads: "The People's MP is obliged to participate in the work of the National Assembly." That's why I ask who made the decision to impose a new sentence today on Tomislav Nikolic, for how many days and for what? After receiving that answer, I seek an answer to which the MP, when it is obvious that his constitutional rights are violated, can appeal to the decision of the one who made it. Whether or not to the President of the Assembly, whether the Administrative Committee, because in this country is provided with two-stageness. There is always the possibility of a citizen and the MP complaining of a decision concerning the threat of his rights. Therefore, it would be quite logical to get a guide on the legal remedy after the President of the Assembly gives us an adequate answer. I doubt in advance that I will be pleased and that the SRS MPs will be pleased with the response of the National Assembly president, so I am particularly talking to the members of the Administrative Committee and Mr Ristic that I expect a decadent response, who today has decided to impose a new sentence of distance from the session indefinitely to Tomislav Nikolic and to whom a complaint may be referred to the decision of the Administrative Committee which has clearly adopted much more rights than it belongs to him under the Constitution, the law and the Rules of Procedure. I remind you, this is a kind of lustration not provided for by the Lustration Act. I remind the president of the National Assembly that he already has several criminal charges against her, several civil lawsuits against her... (President: I warn you of overstepping allowed time. )......................................................................................................... and that she declares herself a lustration, and that she is likely to be the first to answer and to be lustrated under that law.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-17-0.u31315	There's no violation of the Rules of Procedure, of the member you've advertised, which is Article 216. Of course, MPs have their duties and must respect them. You have an answer from the Board of Administrative Affairs to your remarks. He was delivered to parliamentary groups. The Management Board has made a decision on the interpretation of 90 days, whether that is 90 working days or calendar days. You have a group of MPs. Here, I give you mine. Here you go. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Zarko Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-17-0.u31316	Dear fellow Members of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, I went out to advertise a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 115, paragraph 6. This is already the second session of the National Assembly, and I, on the same basis, advertise a breach of the Rules of Procedure. That position speaks - a computer copy of each vote is delivered to MP groups, at their request. Fifteen days ago, on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, I filed a motion to get a ballot from the Lustration Act. We'd like to know, Mr. Prime Minister and the other ministers, since the MPs know that, who's going to lustrate us. There's no reason for you to be afraid of it, and you're afraid of it. So it's been 15 days, and we didn't get that list. No, correctness works, let me say who, but one of the MPs also filed a request and got that same list, but only after the threat of criminal charges. Obviously, if it has come to this point, we'll also have to file criminal charges against the president of the National Assembly and the secretary of the National Assembly, as the most responsible people for this, I think, the simple thing. There's no reason we can't get it. If that's the way to get a listing, then we'll use that way too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-17-0.u31317	I'm just saying, I've already given you an answer. So MPs do not only have rights in this congregation, but also have duties. You weren't at the polls, so I don't see why you'd have an insight into the listing. You file a criminal charges, I don't mind. [[Sagar.]] According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-17-0.u31318	I'm in a position to appeal to Article 28. The Rules of Procedure which decidently state what the duties and obligations of the President of the National Assembly are, among other things, to take care of the application of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I remind you, Madam Chairman, that we didn't ask for an answer and no opinion yesterday. Today at this session, right now I am asking you to tell me who made the decision to give Tomislav Nikolic a new measure of distance from the session and based on what. If you can't give me an answer, I ask the Administrative Board to schedule a session and give the session an explanation and answer to this question, and I think it's absolutely clear. Once again, who made the decision? I'm not interested in anything else, and I'm interested in it now, not yesterday or the day before, because yesterday no one could have expected you to break both the Rules of Procedure and the laws and the Constitution of this country, which still applies.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-17-0.u31319	No new decision has been made at all. The opinion of the Administrative Committee has been adopted. So, the old decision I made as chairman is still going on, 90 days. You have the opinion of the Administrative Committee. If you are not satisfied, the Management Board may reply to your comments later. We're going to work on a set agenda. (From Hall: Down Government. Please control yourselves. Please, so I don't have to apply the Rules of Procedure, please. We're on our way. Agenda item: – Proposal for a Member of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to elect a member of the Government of Serbia, Minister of Agriculture and Water Affairs, Dr Stojan Jevtic. Does the Prime Minister, Mr. Zoran Zivkovic, want to explain the proposal? Yeah. ) Please, the word is made by the Prime Minister, Mr. Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-17-0.u31320	Madam President, the presidency, the honourable MPs, as you know, the recent Minister of Agriculture has resigned and it has caused my obligation to propose a new candidate for the post. You got his biography, so I'm not gonna waste your time reading it. It's about Dr Stojan Jevtic who's been in agriculture for a few dozen years, 20 and a few years is a doctor of science, many of the places that have direct ties to agriculture have spent most of his working life. What specifically defined me to be proposed for this function is that for two years he has been the prime minister's advisor, which means he's been in contact with all the problems of our agriculture every day, he's followed everything the government has done to solve all these problems. We can't say for sure that the situation in agriculture is perfect. It is far from that, as in many other spheres of our society and our lives. It is definitely that some initial steps have been made and that, as in other areas, there is much more to be done in the area of agriculture, water and forestry. I am convinced that Mr Stojan Jevtic will be worthy of this task and that under his leadership this ministry, and thus the entire government, will contribute to improving the situation in the area of agriculture. The direct tasks he will face are to stabilise agricultural production, to mitigate the effects of droughts that have more than clearly taken a large part of almost all agricultural products this year. We are on the verge of getting into a situation when it will be necessary for the drought to be declared an elemental disaster. Unfortunately, because of the state of our irrigation system and the entire complex, we can only hope it will rain. There's a lot to do in that area. It's not just about building new irrigation systems. There are many systems that have existed for a few dozen years, but they are abandoned. We're not going to bid on who and whose time, but it's definitely systems that have to be put into operation and that their function rises to the highest possible level. It will be the first task of the new minister. Another task will be to encourage exports, as a name for our agriculture. For decades, we've heard from primary school that Serbia is such that it can feed half of Europe, and we've never been in a situation where it's on the verge of eating us. The potential obviously exists. Why he hasn't been used in decades after us, it's not the topic we need to talk about today, but it's definitely that agriculture remains as a very great potential for the development of our economy in general, exports and everything that has to do with agricultural products. It is necessary to prepare legislation in those areas which are not now defined or defined in a bad way, and that through these laws the conditions are created to reach two levels of standard in our agricultural production: one level of standard is to offer, breed in our fields such that it will be one profitable production; another standard is that the process of production and everything that follows production is by the standards of the European Union and that the market is our target market. Special attention should also be paid to the organisation of agricultural producers. We have again decades back the situation that farmers don't have a real partner, or they don't have the right mechanisms to better organize, how to get better loans, how to get something cheaper, better and timely in their procurement process, than it has been so far. It is obvious that cooperatives or cooperatives, but in a new way, in a way of market economy, and not in the way we remember, are necessary to make it possible for farmers to have better conditions for their work. What is not such a great imperative in the first months of the work of the new minister, but surely the last deadline for this year to begin is to create a platform for our business contracts with the World Trade Organisation and for our negotiations with the European Union in the area of agriculture. These are, for some, the negotiations that are now unnecessary, but which will come in a few years, some hope for a few dozen years, but definitely these platforms are a very important thing that must define our strategic relationship with agriculture and towards the European Union and the World Trade Organisation. That way, when we get to those negotiations, we'll define the area of agriculture in a few decades, maybe centuries ahead of us. That means it's one very serious job that we have to do, with all our potentials, for all of us, and I'm sure the new minister will be able to gather all those experts who can help it, no matter what they are, where they are, who they've worked for so far, and especially will be irrelevant from which parties they are. I would like this minister's choice to reflect the definition of everyone in this hall who wants good Serbia, to support him at the beginning of his work, and normally, he, like all the other ministers, as the whole government, we are all daily on your check and support at the beginning of the job to some member of the government does not mean that he is protected for the entire term. You can always, as you know, raise the question of trust to anyone. I urge you to vote and give your trust to Mr. Stojan Jevtic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-17-0.u31321	I thank the Prime Minister. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to submit a list of those declared for word according to this agenda point. Of the heads of parliament's groups, MP Dragan Markovic, president of the SSJ parliamentary group, first registered. In agreement with Article 186, Article 1 I am opening an investigation into the Prime Minister's proposal to elect a member of the Government.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-17-0.u31322	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, the Honored Ministers, the Serbian Unity Party asked Minister Veselinov for several reasons in 2001, because when he was elected we did not hear his programme, we did not hear what he would do when it comes to agriculture and agricultural production. He has done a lot of damage to agricultural producers and ruined agricultural production for all time. That's right, because I live in the country and I know how agricultural producers lived in 1997, 1998 and 1999. And it was hard back then, but like today -- never worse. Listening to the Prime Minister, we heard the biography of the new candidate for minister, Mr. Yevtic. Personally against Mr. Jevtic, the SSJ has nothing, we believe that Mr. Jevtic has good intentions when it comes to agricultural production, but we still haven't heard the programme - what it is that Mr. Jevtic will do from now on for agricultural producers. I expected the Prime Minister to say this, Mr. Zivkovic, as the first man of the government - what the government would do in the coming period. There was nothing we could hear about today, and rightly we of the Soviet Union suspect that agricultural production will be better, and agricultural producers will live better than tomorrow or the day after. We were expecting a report on the work, and if anything else, at least the full blame would be brought on the former minister and declared collateral damage to agricultural producers. In some ways, it might be a comfort to agricultural producers. Or, to explain to us why the oil we received from donations was sold, and it was to be distributed to farmers for free; why one price of grain was promised at the time when Mr. Veselin's minister was paid a second price; why a large quantity of meat was imported, so at the same time at the market it was cheapest in the last seven-eight years, these days at the market, even in the last months. That's what we asked for someone to explain. Then, what about agricultural pensions? Why late agricultural pensions for 16 months and why they are small, on average farmers receive 1,500 dinars as pensions, which are extremely small pensions. When we look at how many taxpayers and users there are in one house, the obligor pays more than the other family member receives as a pension. The Serbian Unity Party would ask, on behalf of agricultural producers, Minister or Prime Minister to tell us if there would be a loan for agricultural producers? Will agricultural products be banned because we are making direct competition for our agricultural producers? You know there's a large amount of sugar imported into Serbia. Someone made a huge sum of money. We didn't hear who it was that imported that sugar and destroyed agricultural production when it came to sugar tails. A large number of producers who handed over sugar tails did not receive money for that turned over sugar tail. Even we asked for Pomorava County, or from Smederev to Kruševec, because the agricultural producers were not paid sugar tail, that the government would pay for it, and she didn't do it. I don't think that's good for agricultural producers. Why do we not have subsidies for agricultural production, as is the case in the countries from which we imported sugar? There's $240 in sugar, and we've sold it for $470, and then they ask our agricultural producers why the price is lower there. There's a lower price there because these peasants get subsidies. So now our agricultural producers should also get a subsidy when it comes to milk production, sugar tails, corn and even cattle, because if we now increase the price of livestock it is known that they will burden the market and that those who buy meat in butchers, and their wages are low, will not be able to buy. There is a government to intervene and help, to increase agricultural production and to make purchasing power the same for those who do not have production. The Serbian Unity Party is also asking the government to explain to us where these tractors came as donations to Serbia. A large amount of tractors, and never in any report could we see me in Pomoravska, Šumadijski and Moravik district, I never heard that at least one farmer got a tractor. Did those tractors sell or did they all go to Vojvodina? Some of them left, I don't mind. Vojvodina is a agricultural end and should go there too, but the question is, what about other places in Serbia? It's never been up in the country. Peasants are only used when votes are made and when work needs to be done for this country, when it comes to the military and when it comes to the election campaign. Then politicians come to the country and promise the farmers that they will do something for them, and not to come for the next four years, but never to mention them again, they just feel sorry for them, and the farmers have nothing. They're looking for some concrete moves. Whether agricultural producers will get loans, and if they get these loans now, under these banking conditions, from these banks made by Mr. Dinkic, destroyed Serbian banks, foreign banks have come to Serbia, constantly showing us some foreign reserves, such as Jezda and Dafina used to do, deceive Serbian citizens to take money to banks, this is now done by Mr. Dinkic, instead of asking the government to say that part of the money from foreign reserves goes to agricultural production, that at least be given to those farmers whose only interest it is. Believe it or not, farmers once, those living in the country should know that, when they went to the field to buy a bunch of beer, a liter of brandy to carry, and now it's become a luxury for agricultural producers. The Serbian Unity Party is urging the government to say what the price will be in the next three months when agricultural products are concerned. You can see the ravines are blocking the roads. These days they will block roads and others, at least that's how farmers announce, and even those who have been damaged haven't sown the grain, because the former minister told them -- don't sow the grain, it'll be a big drought, so we can't give a big price. He has now damaged Serbia that we cannot have the necessary quantities of grain, as much as necessary for us, and there is no talking about exports. Serbia has Vojvodina, Pomorava County, Moravički District, Rasinski County, where agricultural production is developed, and agricultural producers cannot live from their work. Will agricultural producers, Mr. Future Minister, when you become Minister of Tomorrow have your word today and you say that when I become Minister on behalf of the Government, I will provide a loan for agricultural producers, I will give the farmers unpaid money for all the agricultural production they have handed over to the State, I will make sure that I provide a subsidy. Milka, don't laugh and throw. You have a problem in your area. Your trip to the municipality where you're president is blocked today. It's not funny when it comes to a farmer, believe me, it's not funny. So the former minister mocked them, and he said to invite Jesus Christ to rain and ask God when it comes to the price of grain. That's not right. Milka Marinkovic, from the scene: I laugh at you, not the peasants. You, Mr. Minister, tell me what your program is, what the government's program is. I didn't hear the program. I'm asked by the Prime Minister if I'm going to vote for the minister. I will vote if the minister says - all agricultural pensions will be paid in a month, not from 700 to 1,500 dinars, but from 10,000 to 15,000 dinars. If the minister says he will provide a subsidy for agricultural production, then we will vote for him. If he says he'll provide tractors on loan to agricultural producers under favourable conditions, then we'll vote for him. (President: will you use the next ten minutes? I'll use it. If Mr. Minister promises that agricultural producers will know in advance what the price of their product is, we will vote for Mr. Minister. He's from Levc, from Pomoravsky County. Personally, we have nothing against him, but please, Mr. Future Minister, come out and say, so that the other debaters of the Serbian Unity Party know how to behave, will you honor all of this for agricultural producers? Will you be pushing for the price of bus tickets to be in the interior, when it comes to children from villages travelling to the city, going to school, the same as in Belgrade. Let me remind you that the price of bus tickets in Belgrade is 15 dinars, or 30 dinars from one end to the other end of Belgrade, and up to 100 dinars in Pomorava County. There's a lot less income, Mr. Future Minister. If you explain and say this is your program, we will vote for you, but I ask you to immediately explain it to our citizens. I'd like to say a few more words. What's the problem with the village? We in Pomorava County say those who work in factories and work in the country, that they are some half-wits. However, 50% of workers in Serbia have lost their jobs these days and over the last two years. They could survive these two years with small wages, because they kind of lived off some of their own agricultural production. Now they've lost their job at the factory. It's very difficult in agriculture, and the question is, what are these people going to live on in the next period and how they're going to motivate their children living in the country to go to the field? These children are very literate, they're calculating their father and they say it's not worth it to go to the field and process that property. Finally, I expect and would ask the Prime Minister, since I was trying to reach him, and I have a promise from the late Zoran Djindjic, I was with him and he knows that the finance minister, who is not present today, will be paid for the sugar tail. He promised me for agricultural producers from Smederev to Kruševec. That's not some big number. I think it's about 29 million. In the name of these people, I would ask you to answer, because they want to block the roads. I say it's not right and that's not the way. I don't think it's much of a figure for the Serbian government to pay sugar tail to farmers.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-17-0.u31323	The word has a MP, Zarko Obradovic, president of the SPS parliamentary group, and then MP Bojan Pajtic, president of the DOS parliamentary group, Serbia's Reform, MP Dejan Mihajlov, and MP Zoran Krasic. That's the order you picked up.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-17-0.u31324	Dear Presidency, fellow Members of the People's Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister and members of the Government, today's agenda of the National Assembly is the choice of one member of the government, a minister of agriculture, a choice Serbia had long expected, and what the Serbian government was running from regardless. The Socialist Party of Serbia, and I think the whole of Serbia, expected changes in the agricultural portfolio much earlier, for two reasons: because of the person of the minister himself, the way he worked, as well as the overall poor situation in agriculture. The previous Minister of Agriculture himself will be more remembered by the confusion in the work he was in charge of, than by some work, because there was no work; according to political statements that made the public laugh, they saddened people who were engaged in agriculture; as a passionate hunter, not a protector of animals; as a man who cared for the situation in agriculture showed by praying to God for rain; in one word, as incompetent and irresponsible for the work for which he received DOS support. Nevertheless, his poor work, the DOS did not want to change him, nor was it the reason for the election of the new minister. The reason is one tragic event, a car accident, the death of a young woman, in which the minister was involved; in fact, an attempt to politicise the event, by the minister himself, and the reaction that followed in public. The minister, instead of saying what happened and what happened, explained that he was allegedly being campaigned against because the relatives were victims... (President: Please return to the agenda theme, the minister resigned, you now have a proposal to elect a new minister. This is a topic because we need to know why we are even discussing it today. That's four sentences, you're not gonna... (President: Please return to the agenda theme, you have been warned. ) Please, here's the Prime Minister here, he can tell on behalf of the Government if this has anything to do with it, she's the promoter of today's agenda. You already know everything. There's nothing we can say today that the public doesn't already know. (President: You must respect the subject and discuss the topic of the agenda. I absolutely respect the subject, but I must say, because there were explanations by the minister that the campaign against him was being led because the relatives were allegedly the victims of the Socialist Party of Serbia. Fortunately, the public did not accept such an explanation and asked for resignation, especially after other contradictory statements, made by the minister himself. It was only after the DOS realized...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-17-0.u31325	National MP, based on Article 102. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly tell you the first warning, since even after my warning you continue to speak beyond the subject of the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-17-0.u31326	Excuse me, are we discussing the election of the new Minister of Agriculture today?
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-17-0.u31327	We're discussing the old man's resignation, which I concluded seven days ago. Please don't argue.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-17-0.u31328	Is it illogical in the debate on the election of a new minister to mention the reasons why the minister is elected?
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-17-0.u31329	It doesn't make sense.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-17-0.u31330	It doesn't make sense, like it doesn't make sense for MPs to get a list. Nothing makes sense. So, only when the DOS estimated that the case had bad, negative consequences for the overall DOS image was pressured and the minister resigned. That's why we're discussing today, here in this extraordinary session, the election of a new Minister of Agriculture. Essentially, changes in the agricultural portfolio should have taken place much earlier, as the situation in agriculture is very bad. The Ministry of Agriculture and the Government of the Republic of Serbia do not have a strategy for agriculture, they do not have a plan to systematically develop agriculture, not only preserve existing resources, but also contribute to agriculture being Serbia's development branch. The economic policy run by the current government of the Republic of Serbia, the current DOS government, leads to a decline in agriculture. Agriculture is not economically motivated and protected from the stymic functioning of the market, especially unfair competition and uncontrolled imports of everything and everything. It is known that the foreign trade deficit is over $4 billion. The structure of imported goods also included numerous agricultural products, which Serbia not only produces, but practically does not know what to do with them. According to official data, imports into our country and potatoes, and beans, and onions and many other agricultural products that are then sold at lower prices, resulting in a double negative effect: destroying domestic production and thus causing a reduction in the number of agricultural employees. The state does almost nothing to protect domestic producers, to subsidize their production. Agricultural producers have been left behind, practically, to themselves and to unfair competition. The stock fund is almost decimated, the milk is not bought as before, now every three or five days, thus not processed. Import cheeses flooded Serbia. If it's not a theme state in agriculture, I really don't know... (President: The theme is the selection of the Minister for Agriculture. Why do we choose a new minister? Please, fellow MPs, allow me to continue this story on the agenda. The price of meat has fallen. Instead of encouraging the production of meat and the development of livestock, the state imports meat to allegedly protect the standard of living of citizens, but in fact, the import lobby would make good money. Prices of products that have been bought and have been a protection mark of Serbia in recent years, such as raspberries and cherry, are becoming less and less. It is paradoxical, but true, that now that the sanctions of the European Union have been lifted and there should be a normal trade exchange, the ransom prices of these products are not only lower, but the ransom is not guaranteed, so that manufacturers are practically forced to sell their products almost in vain. Instead of Serbia being a food producer, and the strategy to go out on the world market with final products, with world standards, we do it with raw materials. Serbia's agriculture has become a prisoner of various import-export lobbys, which are of course the first to earn, to their pocket, and then to the rest, land and agriculture. We've been crying out in the European Union with the sale of sugar. Instead of saying who exported sugar, how many states in that business lost, by the cheek, of course, where the tons of sugar ended, i.e. The money, which is missing, the state is trying to cover up this affair, to explain, well, it happened, no one is guilty and, of course, draws public attention to another course, with new or imaginary affairs. It also imports genetically modified food and seeds that have a devastating impact on our production, human health and the production and development potential of Serbia. It is hardly possible to find any area in agriculture where producers are satisfied, whether it is wheat, corn, milk, livestock development or something else. The safety of product placements, and the prices of derivatives are high, artificial fertilisers are also missing, the mechanization credit is not available. Agricultural producers, in one word, are left to themselves. No state strategy, no help from the state. The Socialist Party of Serbia believes that change at the head of the ministry, regardless of what candidate it is, cannot in itself lead to any improvement in the area of agriculture, because of the government of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. DOS, there is no strategy for the development of agriculture. There is no strategy for the development of agriculture, because there is no strategy. It's not just an assessment of the situation in agriculture, it's a general assessment of the bad situation in all areas. In order not to bother you much, because they are terribly bad for the Government of the Republic of Serbia, I must say that there are already about a million unemployed people, the numbers of the unemployed and the employees are approaching, and that will quickly be leveled. It's a huge number of people who work, and they have very small salaries. Pensioners also have small pensions. Soon, if it isn't now, food will be very expensive for most Serbian citizens. This is where we come up with the paradox that Serbia, related to agriculture, exists. Instead of protecting agriculture by controlling imports, subsidising production, different measures, and even if food, as a strategic advantage and value of Serbia, is available to all, it will soon become a rare commodity with a high price. (President: Do you want to use the next 10 minutes?) ) No, thank you, in the second report, I will support the thematics that I have cited. In any case, this government neither in general nor individually enjoys the confidence of the citizens, nor can it gain the confidence of the SPS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-17-0.u31331	The word has been issued by MP Bojan Pajtic, president of the DOS parliamentary group -- Serbia's Reform.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-17-0.u31332	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, Members of Parliament, if we were to consistently analyse the situation in agriculture, we would quickly reach Mr Mirko Marjanovic, the Progress, the wheat affair and the situation where the Prime Minister was an exclusive importer and wheat exporter, but this would not be a responsible approach. The topic of today's first item of the agenda is the election of a new agriculture minister and we should all stick together. The expert approach that was promised, which we showed when we proposed that Mr. Stojan Jevtic be the new agriculture minister, is certainly due to the fact that it is necessary, because of the difficult tasks that exist before the minister of agriculture in the Serbian government, to be hired by the most professional person, a person of high professional integrity. The situation in agriculture that is historically conditioned, therefore, the non-profitable varieties that are grown in our country, the low-accumulated branch of the economy, drought as an acute problem, therefore all this requires that a man who has experience in both sciences and in the administration, but also in the economy, assumes the helm of the Ministry of Agriculture. So, success, if you just take a yearly look at Mr. Jevtic's biography, is a key term that binds all the points in his career and all the areas he covered during his career as an expert and as a scientist, but also as a practicalist. So, the career of the university teacher, the career of the director of the Institute for Research in Agriculture, the career of a man who served as deputy minister of agriculture in the transitional government, and then the adviser of the Prime Minister for the field of agriculture, the career of a man who also in practice covered the area of agriculture and showed extremely great results, besides, the man who worked through both scientific and international symposiums and the area of drought, the ratio of drought and plant production, is, therefore, the career that Serbia currently needs at this point and in this place. Accordingly, this proposal is today in front of the Republic Assembly. What we can expect, if we follow Mr Jevtic's development path, what he has done and the results he has shown as an expert, is that we can expect a change in the structure in agriculture; we can expect that all available water streams, rivers, accumulations, streams are used to improve the situation with drought; further, restructuring of "Serbian water"; crediting especially those branches that are highly profitable, which can provide exports of our goods abroad and can be a successful product exported abroad and harmonisation, which is unusually important. So, the man who organized many international symposiums, published articles abroad, is a man who should harmonize our regulations, both with European Union regulations and with the regulations of the World Trade Organisation. So, we all go back together on the subject, let's not go back to the times when agriculture was the only way and the resources from which the ruling set could be enriched, without any fence and without any formal basis, back to the topic, the atema is Mr. Jevtic. If we really want our agriculture well, we will not be dealing with phrases and demagogues, but only by whether the candidate whom the government has proposed is of sufficient quality to take over this place, and the DOS Parliament Club - Serbia's Reform is convinced that it is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-17-0.u31333	The following is MP Dejan Mihajlov, then authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary group, MP Zoran Krasic. Since MP Dejan Michael is not present, do you want ten minutes or do you want me to set a break? Ten minutes, please, yes, we can, after which we'll set a break.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-17-0.u31334	Unfortunately, a series of strange circumstances had to happen, to have one car accident and to see that the DOS Mania had matured time to change one of the failed ministers, Dragan Vesenov. Today is an opportunity to find out that DOS Mania also has a larger agricultural expert than Dragan Vesenov. According to the biography, Mr. Jevtic is that in every way. Since this is the Government of Continuity, at least that was the case on 18 March here, there were speeches, the Government that continued that policy since 25 January 2001, we from the opposition say that there is practically no more important policy, there is no, no view of reality, no view of the future, there is only one commitment to fulfill every order that comes from abroad; and you see, these two and a half years have shown that all these orders have been devastating for this people, for resources, for the perspective of our youth and simply, that is the Government of Destruction. I'm taking this opportunity to give the candidate a few tips in these ten minutes, to show him what he expects in future work, and he will certainly be the minister and head of a ministry who cannot be commended for having neither the balance data nor the stock funds, nor, in any way, manages and directs those stock funds. Why? Because from the time of Labus as vice president of the federal government and that famous chemical plant-protection salesman, Sasa Ivosevic, Vitosevic, as it has already been, we have opened up as a market, as an ordinary can, and now everything and everything enters there. There is no protection of our balances and, of course, the minister can expect that practically by September, October, the month will probably spend a good part of his working time on barricades in Serbia, in talks with peasants, and he, neither has mechanisms, nor levers, nor resources, nor any other way, because today it is the worst thing that there is no way to solve any problem, so that the invitation to drought is certainly a natural disaster under conditions of ideological approach that this government has a small and weak reason that simply no one can live to accept as some excuse. What else can a new minister expect? The new minister can expect him to fit into the government's existing composition, which means that you, as future minister, will have to arrest in the media, accuse, if it can be done by the Minister of Culture and Information, you will probably have to do the same. You will be somewhat saved, unlike other ministers, because, as far as I can tell from your biography, you are not at the head of any party, so you will not be able to deal with each other with your colleagues, but someone will abuse you to support one side of the conflict at a certain point, and that will also be an additional burden to draw you away from the jobs involved in the professional part of the minister's duties. You're also saved. You are saved, for example, as Nebojsa Covic, because he can slander, but immediately the government draws conclusions and establish his immunity. So, you're protected here, immunity will be established for you without the court or the investigative judge calling you to plead whether or not you are calling for immunity. So, you can count on yourself to be protected until further notice, while these courts, while these governments, in simple conclusion, are calm. Furthermore, I must tell you that you are part of a circle of rare ministers, I think five or six ministers exist who have not been examined. Since January 21st, they all had to go to the review; of course, it wasn't shown, but Djindjic kept it, and I know he expressed great dissatisfaction, but the DOS was simply so concluded, so he had to accept some things. You and a few others don't have to go through it, but I personally express the astonishment, which has made you accept that in a situation like this, at a time like this, you're the Minister of Agriculture, when you see this government crumbling, on its own, it's disintegrating. You see, you will most likely join a large number of these ministers who are ministers only in their office and possibly with the chief of staff. In light of this, it is not the authority of the state administration, decisions, measures and what you think is to be done will not be implemented. Only Mr Dusan Mihajlovic is protected here. He's concluded on several grounds and I'd recommend you follow his example.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-17-0.u31335	I'm warning you on the subject of the agenda. Is it a matter of trust to the government, or is it a choice of the Minister of Agriculture? You will now go from minister to minister. I warn you not to throw from the scene. I'm warning you, you're talking about the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-17-0.u31336	Ma'am, just listen to me before you say anything. Just listen to me, so you can figure out what this is about. I begin every sentence by consulting the candidate for minister, as he will surely be elected here. But I advise him how best to perform his function and how best to fit in.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-17-0.u31337	You're applying for an advisor. You're not here as a counselor. You didn't get the word to give advice, but to make a statement about the Prime Minister's proposal to elect a Minister of Agriculture.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-17-0.u31338	Ma'am, you are in grave error. I'm not anybody's counselor. I don't want to be anyone's advisor, nor can I be a counselor to someone who doesn't want me to advise him. You're mistaken. I'm just pointing to uncertainty, because I don't want to talk about the personality of a man I don't know. I don't want to insult a man, I don't want to be insolent. I don't want to be insolent. I've told you a few times that I don't want to talk about any morals here. I'm not talking about the morale of any individual. I speak very objectively of what the gentleman expects when he's elected minister in a few hours, to fit in as best as possible, to work in that government, to know what is protecting him, to know what his obligations are, as long as he can go. In no word have I offended anyone here, nor have I said anything that is not true. All I've said is the naked truth, for all there is evidence, and if you're not familiar with it, please excuse me, that's your problem, but what's true you should know before you warn me. I didn't insult anyone, I'm not off topic. I haven't used a word of agriculture once. I only mentioned in the introduction the balances, the stock funds, I said that our market is open, that there is one unprincipled competition, there are some new monopolies that are blocking our agriculture. The Lord will have trouble curbing the dissatisfaction that is evident. The future Minister of Agriculture, if he wants to be part of the team, which is a team in continuity, must seriously count on the process of dedication. That's what binds him, because it's what the government has decided. It's the process. That process fits everything that happens to our agriculture. I'm criticising the previous minister for not doing anything to improve agriculture. But the criticism here could not bring any result, for one simple reason, which is not a subject, which cannot table a motion to vote for a non-confidential vote for the minister or for that government. We're blocked. One objective approach is forbidden here. I'm just telling the gentleman what's next. Following these dangers, there's a system failure that won't be able to control itself. You can see for yourself that police in public places can't control the system. This includes agriculture. You can see for yourself that a little bit, little bit from every neighborhood, a group of dissatisfied people, with the right of dissatisfied people, appear. People are just astounded. We are open to the world, we are welcomed everywhere, at least as far as some people from the Government of the Republic of Serbia are concerned. That kind of help comes in, you owe the state, and no one feels it, and in agriculture, especially. I'm talking here and about what the Serbian Radical Party stands for, to raise the strength to translate this agricultural security into voluntary. Of course, it will be painful because of the commitments made, and some condition that has already existed for 19 years. That's what I'm talking about, Madam President, and I'm telling the gentleman who's supposed to be a minister, and now I'm saying again that I'm simply amazed, I'm surprised that he's accepted to be a member of this government under these conditions, and there's not a single review.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-17-0.u31339	I've been setting a break for an hour. I'll see you at 3:00. [[After break - 15.50.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, please continue the session to determine if we have a quorum to work on. I figure we've got a quorum and we can keep working. I ask, do any of the presidents of the parliamentary groups apply for a word? People's MP Dejan Mihajlov, president of the DSS parliamentary group, came forward; he is not present, but he can also contact later. We continue the debate according to the application for the word of the MPs of the people. The word is made by the People's Messenger Jon Chisashash, the first to be declared. Next reported is MP Petar Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-17-0.u31341	Dear Madam President, honourable government members, respected fellow MPs, the Vojvodina Coalition supports the government's proposal for a candidate for agriculture minister. I want to tell you, the position of the Vojvodina Coalition is to remain on the Serbian government's reform course. So I repeat once again, the position of the "Vojvodina Coalition" coalition is to support this proposal by the Prime Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-17-0.u31342	I thank the People's MP. The People's Messenger Petar Petrovic has the word, and the next one declared for the word is the Messenger Milorad Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-17-0.u31343	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Yevtic, candidate for the Minister of Agriculture and Water Management, I am sorry that there is no Mr. Prime Minister Zivkovic, who is also proposing this staff solution for the selection of the Minister of Agriculture and Water Management of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. In addition, in a few words, on behalf of the MPs' club, I will address you, my fellow Members and Mr Jevtic, the candidate for minister. My exposure is in the next one. I thought that after the term of office, or Prime Minister Zivkovic, Mr Jevtic would come out for this address, as future Minister of Agriculture and Water Affairs and present to us his programme, which probably also supports the government, how to restore agriculture, i.e. agricultural production in Serbia. The current situation in the agriculture of the Republic of Serbia is never worse. I probably risk getting a warning from the chairman if I talk longer about the situation in agriculture, but since I come from Pomorava, directly as a representative of the Pomorava County, whose composition Mr. Jevtic knows well, and the area called Levac, the municipality of Rekovac, and from where he comes from, and I convey the statements of agricultural producers from those parts that the situation in agricultural production is never worse at this point in Serbia. Why? Our villages are getting empty, and there are fewer young people who do agricultural production. The prices of agricultural products are so declassified and low, it simply cannot be restored what is invested. So there's no free reproduction in agricultural production either. The government of the Republic of Serbia or someone from the Government of the Republic of Serbia allows everything to be imported when it comes to agricultural products. In this way, agricultural producers, i.e. the agriculture of the Republic of Serbia, are directly damaged in a broader sense. We expected that the future minister would tell us what he predicted to do by the end of the government's mandate, and at best for this government, its mandate could last until the end of 2004. So, for these 18 months to come, what can agricultural goods and agricultural producers in the Republic of Serbia expect to improve? We've had one minister so far, who certainly wouldn't have left this post if what happened hadn't happened. We of the Soviet Union regrettably find that a young life had to be lost, in order for a failed minister of agriculture and water industry to leave its post. As successful as he was at the post, farmers in the Republic of Serbia know best when they take their product out to the market at the moment or when they want to contract, if they can contract, some agricultural production. On the other hand, you will remember well, distinguished fellow MPs, we from the USSR in time, when here in front of this assembly and before us MPs were on the agenda of tax laws, we proposed to allow farmers to at that time, when the state owes them to hand over agricultural production, while they also owe the state on various grounds for contributions and taxes, compensate for their obligations and claims. Mr. Djelic said he couldn't do it, because it's not about the same cash register. This is why today, when the agricultural producer owes the state he pays interest for the disorderly execution of his obligations to the State. The same state does not pay interest to the agricultural producer when it owes it to hand over the agricultural product. They're asking the agricultural producers, what are they to this country, whether the citizens of the second row. It's normal, and it's objective, and it's right and legal, if we want, everyone pays legal interest for not fulfilling their obligations. It didn't happen, and it didn't go for it. Please, Mr. Yevtić, you have that in mind when you take office as Minister of Agriculture and Water Management. The question is, what are you going to do with the prices of agricultural products to be as profitable as possible for agricultural producers, so that in this way we attract existing agricultural producers to expand their agricultural production as much as possible, regardless of the area. Also, young people in a way to attract and stay with their parents, on their property, at their homes and to deal with agricultural production. Since Mr. Jevtic is just coming from Levc, where I come from, by the circumstances our hometowns are about ten kilometers from each other, but regardless I will publicly say - I cannot support Mr. Jevtic as Minister of Agriculture, only for the reason that he will become Minister of Agriculture in one poor government that is working badly and is poorly ruling the Republic of Serbia. So, Mr. Yevtić, in this Levč villages are so desolate, the nursing homes are such that the average age is 60 to 70; and that few young people who remain leave their hometown, their home and go to centres, such as Jagodina, Kragujevac, Kruševac, Trstenik, etc. They don't see the perspective of farming. Left-wing can be one potential for healthy food production, because agricultural producers need the help of the Ministry of Agriculture, in a broader sense and state, to encourage them to be able to deal with agricultural production, or production for the market. What encouragement do agricultural producers expect? They expect the state to give them favourable loans and that they can renew its mechanism in Serbia, Mr. Jevtic, as you know, between 15 and 20 years old. God forbid I'm right about this data, but at least that's how statistics speak, and maybe it's worse. So, to rebuild agricultural machinery, to build up their properties, so that they can economically process their country and have an account from what they do. In fact, let's not act in the state of Serbia anymore as if this was 1946. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Yevtić, understand that today there are no half-written and illiterate people living in the country who are engaged in agricultural production. They always take away a calculator or a pen and calculate what they have invested, what the state guarantees and what they will end up getting when they surrender, or sell their agricultural product. Do you know Mr. Yevtić, just a few days ago at large markets, like Jagodina or Belusic, which you certainly know, the price of a tollboy was 40 dinars for a living scale, as they say, and he had no one to buy. The price of pig pigs was 60 dinars per kilogram and had no one to buy it, and it is approaching August 15, the third quarter for the reconciliation of the obligation to the state, so we wonder - where will farmers pay and carry out their obligations to the state, if they have no one to sell their agricultural product? That state has to do something. Please examine who is in this country and this government, if still in that government, allowed large quantities of meat from abroad to be imported and thus to destroy domestic, Serbian meat production and meat processing. I can't help but touch another question, as you will also be Minister of Water Management. For years, even under that communist rule, and under socialist authority, even under this DOS rule, it's about irrigation. Serbia is said to have so much potential that it could irrigate thousands and thousands of hectares of the country. And what's happened so far? Almost nothing. It is said that we in the Republic of Serbia can have at least two incomes over the year from one parcel, from our land, and we have only one income and very, very thin, when it happens, as it has now happened, an elemental accident called drought. Please, Mr. Yevtić, if you were born in the country, you probably grew up and lived as a young man in the country, before you went and started to practice science, not to act the way Mr. Vesenov behaves, not to play peasants, or agricultural producers, and to ask whether it would be rain, answer that you did not establish a telephone connection with Jesus Christ, and you do not know when it will be rain. Don't make promises to the farmers that way. Be realistic, tell them the truth in the eyes, because they've learned worse. The only thing she won't be mad at you is if you tell them the truth and the real truth. Finally, Mr. Yevtić, as you yourself originate from an undeveloped area, pay little attention, when it comes to agricultural production, to undeveloped areas, where there is no industry, or it is underdeveloped; therefore, there are those people there as the only source of income left to deal with agricultural production. Don't let that krill "the souther it sadder". It's not just agricultural production in Vojvodina, Machva, Stig, Pomoravlja and the like. Agricultural production is done by agricultural producers in the Bujanovac area, and in the vicinity of Rijeka, and in the surroundings of other places, so that I do not now list them; these are quite passive areas, but where there are conditions to deal with agricultural production. Be assured that you will receive support from the Soviet Parliament Club if you do so, and as the president of our parliamentary club said - if you go out for this pay phone and make a public promise, after this microphone and in front of all of us, that you will do at least part of what the SSJ is asking for, we may give you support. But your biggest mistake is that you accepted to be a minister in this government, which has no perspective, which will soon leave Serbia's political scene. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-17-0.u31344	The word is made by the MP Milorad Mircic, the SRS parliamentary group, and then by the MP Momcilo Trajkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-17-0.u31345	The cause of this debate is the election of a new agriculture minister, and the reason for this is the resignation of the previous minister. When the opposition analyses the work of the previous minister, not because he is likable or antipathic to us, but only for one reason - to see where the error rules have been made in the past, to point out, the opposition is prevented from doing so because, according to the assessment and judgment of the chairman, it is not the agenda point and we are not sticking to the topic. But here, you see, even the chairman has made an oversight. The proposal we heard from the prime minister says that the proposed candidate has so far been an adviser to the Prime Minister for the agriculture portfolio. And, now, if we wanted to evaluate this proposal first, as far as he's from the government right now, i.e. Prime Minister rationally, we would have to go back and see not only what the previous minister did but what the government did when it came to agriculture, and how important the portfolio was. What is the role of the primarily proposed candidate in all this? You can talk and blame the previous minister, but you won't say anything new to Serbia. Serbia knew about him a long time ago. We Serbian radicals have long come to know the qualities of the previous minister, that we have publicly pointed out, said wherever we are. Besides, Serbia doesn't need to be explained much. But attention must be drawn to the significant impact on the implementation of the policy in agriculture by the Prime Minister, the Government has, and the Prime Minister respects the advice of the man who is in that job called - the adviser of the Prime Minister for Agriculture. Isn't there some objective responsibility here, if nothing else? Where the proposed gentleman appeared to say -- here, I did an analysis, I made a concept, I warned the prime minister, I pointed out the failures of the previous minister. Nowhere. Or, we don't have that recorded. And, look, all of this comes from the current Prime Minister, citing all the attributes, that he was an adviser to the previous Prime Minister, and he says, by appointing a new minister, we're going to start exporting food. Where do you gentlemen live? In what state? What century do you live in? Well, now you have one harvest and another set and yours is over, the election's up, they didn't want to. Well, you're not waiting for the harvest, so it's impossible. Don't, you know, look like that 1941 communist story when they were raising the uprising, and they promised the people "when our revolution wins, you'll all eat out of the golden spoons." Well, then, when the people ask them where these gold spoons are, Pavlovic knows best, he's in that ideology, they say wait, folks, it's manual labor, you didn't get the turn. And who are you explaining to, gentlemen? What are you talking about exporting food? Well, who else can believe that? It's the only thing that the presidents of municipalities whose fellow citizens strike for a robbery by the government, which is seen at a low price of raspberries, and they sit here and earn. It's like they're a machine, so you're putting a chip in them. And a little bit had to have gone with their fellow citizens there. Well, whether they're right or wrong. And who do you gentlemen explain to about food exports? Well, don't we see farmers in Germany, France, the Netherlands protesting every night? And what are they doing? They're protesting over excess food. They're throwing away extra food. Then what a crazy story it is about exports. Where does this story lead us? Lead us to ruin, gentlemen. You've reached us with your ability, and indirectly you, sir, who you've proposed to be minister, are already in the survival program. That's for not believing, people! Could anyone have thought four years ago that Serbia would receive humanitarian aid in the form of food from the World Organisation? No one could believe that. Well, you've gotten to it. You led us to that. Supposedly implementing a policy in the area of agriculture, a government policy, which is not the sole responsibility of the minister, you said - no wheat should be sown, it needs sugar tail. Now we're going to stay, which is because it's not sown enough, which is because of the drought, without the bread, gentlemen, and we're going to have extra sugar. But with sugar, you've also clouded the gentlemen of the Democratic Party, these are your members. Don't think you'll be relieved of your responsibilities. You will lose this Civil League of Serbia. What are they? Five, they will disintegrate, but the people will condemn you, you gentlemen, for yours is the greatest responsibility. Don't be alarmed that the people will accuse Vesenov. Vesenov is no longer interested in the people, absolutely not interested in him or this coalition of his. It's not a coalition anymore. Marijan Risticevic cheated on him. He registered his Peasant Party. We cheated on each other, and it's not a coalition anymore. You, gentlemen of the Democratic Party, will be called by the people, because you have the most responsible men in charge and party officials, and you will be the one to account. You can't fool Serbia anymore, gentlemen, because it's hard to believe you'll welcome the set.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-17-0.u31346	The next person registered for the word is MP Momcilo Trajkovic. He's not there. The People's Messenger, Toma Busetic, has the word, and the next reported word is the Messenger Dusan Tubic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-17-0.u31347	If they're ten miles from Stojan, I'm five kilometers away. About Stojan Jevtić, everything is as beautiful as a man. Stojan is a man from a respected family, the best student in high school, a brilliant student, a man who's been to important places, a youth activist. He was in significant places in the time of the one-party system, in significant places in the time of the multi-party system, so the director of the Institute, the Director of Agrobanka, and for me there was no surprise when he was a member of the transitional government of Stojan Jevtic. It was a time of great political charge, but given his quality, that he was patient, tolerance, professional, he was very desirable in that government. When he was elected Prime Minister's advisor, I felt strange, but I thought his place wasn't there, but well, it was a situation where the Prime Minister's advisor was still a second-rate function. Now I'm still terribly surprised, not because Stojan Jevtic doesn't deserve the place. He certainly deserves that place, but not in this government. Simply, given the human, professional and moral quality, Stojan Jevtic is not the place in this government. Let me remind him, because the power of argument is always the greatest. In the past three years, the government has recorded catastrophic results. Industrial production is less year by year and worse than in the time of sanctions. Last year alone, the external deficit was 3.5 billion, and the export coverage was 36%. From all the promises DOS made, there's nothing. There are worse and worse living in Serbia. A million people are out on the street with no job, no hope and no perspective. The departure of young people abroad is greater than in the time of sanctions, which is true. Today in Serbia, so to speak, all target groups are bitter. Only those who are in power or close to the authorities can say that it is good here, that they live well, and everyone else is very bitter, starts with pensioners, who have a system of reckoning God Djelic came to the fact that the average pension is 60% of the average salary, and in the time of our government, the average pension was 95% of the average salary and more could be bought for that small pension of 100 or 80 marks than for the current average of perhaps 300 marks. Professors and doctors are bitter, everyone is dissatisfied. For these reasons, I don't think it's Dr. Jevtic's place in a government like this. On the other hand, if we take just his area, which he will now cover, what he can do in the next year or year or a half, as long as the mandate of this government can take. Is there anything that can fix or improve something? Nothing. The situation is very difficult, not only because of the minister, but also because of the general policy led by the government. The purchase prices of raspberries and blackberries are less today than in the time of sanctions. Strikes are permanent. This government, and I'm talking about the DOS regime, it doesn't have to only apply to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, it imported plums, milk, meat, potatoes last year; how can we import things where we have a comparative advantage, where our development and our promotion rest? Finally, why take this responsibility when we know that there are many scandals and many affairs in this area as well. Let's say, this latest sugar export affair. You know what the European Union said? That this was a big con, that trust was played out. The government said on June 1st, it would put an end to calling those responsible for the export of sugar. The first June is over, and there's none of it. Why would you take it over now, and it's all going to come back to you in some way, because time is small and nothing special you can do? On the other hand, maybe because of this elemental accident, because of the drought, the wheat yield will be the worst. Why would you be a minister during whose reign wheat production has been the smallest in the last 100 years, and we know you're a really quality man in every way? Another very important thing. We in Levc or us Levcians care about the elemental credibility. I don't think you really belong in a government where, for example, Covic, Isakov, Batic, Mihajlović, Gašo Knezevic and even this countryman Vlahovic, whom our countrymen down there don't see anymore. With great promises, he did nothing for our territory, for our end, without saying what he did for Serbia. When I talk about credibility, not to name it individually now, the Deputy Prime Minister says he's a minister, from what I've been saying, that he's a circuser, and this one says he's a notorious alcoholic. Where's the government's credibility? Why would you be in that government? What's most important, everyone was telling the truth. It's not just Batic, Isaac. It's about Micunovic, Dinkic... (President: Please do not step away from the topic. It's all a picture and opportunity of this government and this regime. I strongly recommend to my countryman and friend not to accept the candidacy and that he should reject this candidacy, regardless of what Prime Minister Zivkovic suggested. That's the point. Zivkovic said a few days ago that the arrest of Sljivancanin was not related to the ultimatum of the US administration. Only 10 seconds later on all TV stations, Svilanovic said we would now get help, while Colin Powell said he was impressed. (President: You have moved to the Ministers of the State Community. Please stay away from the agenda theme. I think Stojan Jevtic is a good candidate, but he doesn't belong in this government and I suggest that he give up this candidacy anyway.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-17-0.u31348	The word has a People's MP Dusan Tubic, and the next is Natasa Jovanovic's MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-17-0.u31349	Dear People's MPs, the Honorable Madam Chairman, the Honorable Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Future Minister, we will talk about agriculture at the beginning, that in our gross national product agriculture participates with about 30% and perhaps over 30%, while in other European countries it participates 10 times less, which is 3-4%. We have a one-to-ten relationship. In the budget of the Western countries, agriculture participates with 30%, somewhere and more, and with us about 4%, and these funds are not spent on all items of the budget, anyway the poor budget is then rebalanced to other ministries (and we ourselves were participants at the end of the year). Otherwise, our country has a agricultural deficit of about 150m euros or dollars, while Hungary has a surplus of $1.5 billion, which is more than a worrying figure. We wonder, what advantage Hungary has of us, that we are so different. The late Prime Minister Djindjic, in his exposé, then in the hall to the press, fiercely defended agriculture, that there would be no wave of socialism, but only then and never again. Former Agriculture Minister Dragan Veselinov has not yet established power, the first thing he said -- extraprofitters in agriculture will suffer. That only took five minutes. They realized that they should go to him and make a deal, and those same extra-profits became even bigger. The first proof of this was imports of artificial fertilizer, when Azotara Panchevo maltene was extinguished, as an inert, weak leak, has a debt, and Panchevo only worked on the Japanese government's donation to give money for artificial fertilizer. It's only since the Japanese government's donation that didn't give money to import that fertilizer, but to produce it in a domestic factory. Then, naively believing that Veselinov wanted good for this people, because his parole was -- free imports, free exports (which are not available in any country, because it is asphyxiation of domestic production and no protection), warned the minister, thinking that he wanted a good peasant and this people, to determine the upper parity for the exchange of artificial fertilizer and the price of some to maximise, to help the peasant, because the peasant went to the border still, in Hungary, and the price was the same, similar here. Industrial mafia, commercial lobby and financial capital are evident in this country and extraprofitters are destroying domestic production. So, from the agricultural laws, only the tobacco law has passed, and because of the sale of tobacco factories in Nis and Vranj, and the chamomiles in the drawers of the law on ethanol, alcoholic beverages, wines, liqueurs. I can tell you freely that this is the reason for the collapse of domestic production, fruit growing and viticulture (although the ageing households lose the will to do so) and the flowering of a gray economy that is not under control. For example, production is controlled, Navipa, Rubina, they have to pay both excises and taxes, and so far this smuggling-comerc doesn't have to pay anything. There's also the Prime Minister who's from Nis, and I'm warning you that there's a new caller who's about to show up who's going to lead to human poisoning. But if there's no manifest human poisoning, that's why we have systematic poisoning of people with various juices, wines, alcohol, which, again, I point out, are out of control. Quality control under emergency, we discussed it two years ago in the Assembly, searched, large funds were allocated, equipment was brought in, but almost nothing was working on it. It's harmful and unusable to be present. So we have articles showing up in the paper where the opposition prosecutor, the prosecutor, sued Matijević, to import turkey legs that were unusable. Mr. Matijević drys it in salamura and it goes as useful. The government, the ministers, they're not even interested in poisoning the people. Then we have one even worse thing that was in the paper. I only use what was in the paper. It's MOM, importing machine-processed meat from Italy where Mr. Matijević has his own calories, and that meat is imported in dozens of tons. (President: Please return to the agenda topic. Please be careful how you behave. France wouldn't take that MOM, it wasn't even for pets. That meat was imported here and this people ate that meat. The customs officer sampled at the border in Subotica and proved to be unusable. Veselinov's changing customs, he's bringing in another one that's sampling it, and it's passing. That's what the paper said. Then, mentioning the little birds, rare birds, who were carried by a freezer and stopped at the border, Veselinov said - flying feathers to whoever killed them.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-17-0.u31350	I'm warning you one last time to get back on the agenda. Minister Vesenov resigned and I found it ten days ago here in the Assembly. It's not the subject of debate at all now.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-17-0.u31351	Here, since sugar is current, can it be about sugar, we won't be long. Since we have companies, MK Commertz, who did this, we've received a report, "Interfrigo", some phantom firm from Cačka that no one can trace, and we have NIS "Naftagas", which is not a phantom firm, there's Mr. Pomorski, who is the chairman of the management board of the company. When this affair took place in May, he jumped his sugar and had to go on vacation. We wonder if this extraprofit has gone to some factories, sugars, some pensions and social programs, or into the pockets of individuals and even some parties. Unfortunately, the president of that sugar abuse committee is quite the Veselinov, which he said he filed a report, and it's still under wraps...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-17-0.u31352	On the basis of Article 102. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly tell you the first warning, because you do not follow my warnings.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-17-0.u31353	I must say that Mr. Vesenov was the president of the tender commission for the sale of red sugars, under affairs, in both times. No wonder we don't have that report. What I'm about to tell you, if it went undetected with you, from 10-15 days ago, the NATO Pact even, among other things, in addition to the standard requirements for The Hague, Mr. Prime Minister, mentioned both the corporation and requested the eradication of the corporation. It may have gone undetected, but don't. Milk, with new authority, had a boom and was over 50 pfenig. But then there was uncontrolled imports and milk powder and cheese, the former minister says it's not because of it, but that it's because of the ice cream and that our children don't drink milk. He asked them that. So when we introduced the levies, he didn't give that measure, like, that measure wouldn't mean anything to us. We continue to destroy domestic production and under question will be exports of juniper meat to the European Community, which, as a matter of fact, just went to the border, so the trucks came back. Mr. Future Minister, on wheat: the wheat was the main critic of the former government. A price of 32 pfenig or 11 dinars is promised. That's not respected. The peasants processed the fields and went to the country for real, however, only until the first harvest. The price was nothing, but this is what I'm saying: the first thing you have to do, is to strictly prohibit the export of wheat -- under question are domestic needs, it's forbidden to say -- but strictly. I'll tell you that Mr. Miodrag Kostic exported wheat last year before and during the harvest itself, by 6 dinars it was, but very quickly there was a price of 11 dinars on the world market, plus quality. Don't let us keep exporting our own without importing foreign ones. Mr. Minister Vesenov received two signs from God, but he did not interpret them well. He's like calling Jesus Christ and he's not answering him, but Mr. Secretary's got two signs. He said we sow hard varieties of wheat and industrial herbs. During this winter, the hard varieties of wheat suffered from colds, only the wheat lasted, and in the spring the same suffered the barley and trifilament of the drought, only the wheat lasted, so that our ancient culture sown for hundreds of years must never be the subject of such defiance ever again. The price of pig meat and tomboys has suffered two declines...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-17-0.u31354	I warn you twice to stick to the agenda theme.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-17-0.u31355	I'm explaining to a man that in two years he doesn't do two pig-priced chaos.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-17-0.u31356	You're not invited to explain. What right does an MP need to explain to him before he is elected?
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-17-0.u31357	You see, if you'd like to check with the Ministry, I've written to the Minister with a desire not to experience what he's been through. The price of the meat of the settlers was 60 dinars, it was a catastrophic drought, and the corn was 40 pfenig, for pfenig or two cheaper. He had 60 dinars, snuck in and even made a deal on exporting pigmeat to Russia, totally ignorant of the situation, the shortage was on the domestic market, and then the price came to over 100 dinars, I mean pigs. Instead of being warned then, that he had raised the price, if there was no mechanism that the Socialists had, the minimum price of protection, then there is another, to intervene the stock reserves. I can tell you that Minister of Trade Milosavljevic has done more for agriculture than Minister Veselinov who has not interfered in this area, has even begun to deal with crime. I suggested for a while and a trade, that Mr. Mihajlovic come as Minister of Agriculture and that Veselinov go as Minister of the Interior. At that time, the minister accused the farms of being guilty, his standard song, however, Minister Milosavljevic accused the slaughterhouses of being the main culprits of the shortage. We have Mr. Minister, Mr. Prime Minister, the Soyu - she suffered the same drought before the new government arrived and was gone. Soya protein was unable to import soybean from genetically modified soybean, and Narcis has imported a soybean from the same soybean, genetically modified, so it bought a soybean protein factory from extraprofits and now imports both soy and soybean from genetically modified soybean, bought a port in Backo Palanca, and here, I tell you, you know, imports the sides, cheaper and genetically modified buckshot and soy, and our exports. Denationalisation, which may be the easiest to implement in agriculture, is not done, and has been sold to "Frikom" and 1,500 ha of the country to a Croatian who is neither famous for any prominent citizen in Croatia. Mr. Vesenov never attended the Agriculture Committee, but his deputy Markovic, who is from the former system, so I advise you to get rid of Markovic immediately; and if you are for lustration, let her be conducted in all areas, not in certain areas, so at least take Zahari Trnavčević, who bent his head a little bit because it affects him for being an accomplice in something, take Zahari Trnavčević, be your deputy. I am afraid, as future minister, Vesenov has not even thought about resigning yet, and until this case happened, Mr Malesevic, Masirević, the doctors of science and experts from this profession, but since this severance for the minister cost several million euros, extraprofestors will see it as compensation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-17-0.u31358	The government's president, Mr. Zoran Zivkovic, then has the right to reply, has a National MP, Zaharija Trnavcevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-17-0.u31359	This does not mean that it is the end of the debate, but I wanted to thank everyone who has given very useful advice and the minister of the future, as they call it, which means that you too are certain that he will be elected, and I am glad that it is my proposal, and so do I. I find all these stories about all agricultural products and those affairs that you know about but have never done anything to shed light on these affairs; when you know something, it is normal to hold a press conference about it, but, please, go ahead and report it to a competent authority. It is the obligation of every citizen of this country, that when he knows someone has committed a crime, he must report it. It's an obligation for everyone, including the MPs, but it's not mine to say, you should have learned for yourself. I think it's a completely unnecessary story about Mr. Veselin because he's not a minister anymore. On the other hand, I know with confidence that the MPs who voted for his election, as well as the predecessor, are sitting here, and have never launched a story about him being replaced. So DSS MPs voted for Veselinov at least once. When he was elected in January 2001, full responsibility for the government's work, including Minister Veselinov, was in that part of parliament, and that means DSS MPs. Why didn't you ask for a discussion about the ministry's work, about him personally, I don't know that, but I know one thing for sure, what you're doing right now is called hypocrisy. Please leave what Mr. Vesenov has done to the court of history, to continue with the very useful advice you give to the future minister and to me, and I promise that everything that is useful and can be used will be contained in our further work. Some say Mr. Yevtic is no place in this government, but there is no other government. There, man wants to help. Most of you say to him that an expert, a man of reputation, is the best student, that he is from a respected family, that he has worked in all systems, multiparty and others, but not as a party worker, but as an expert. Then you are now trying to prevent a man from helping the Serbian government, who is working for Serbia's good, as well as any government that will be re-elected and that will not differ greatly from the existing one.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-17-0.u31360	It is not an insult, the right to replica has a National MP, Zaharija Trnavcevic. Sit down, please, the right to replica has a National MP, Zechariah Trnavčević. National MP Zaharija Trnavcevic, a replica of the presentation of MP Dusan Tubic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-17-0.u31361	Dear fellow Members of the People, the Honorable President, Mr Yevtic, I would like to formally use the presentation of my colleague, MP Tubic, did not say anything offensive, but he said that I had bowed my head, which could have been interpreted as bending my head because of some shame, which is, say, Dragan Markovic's deputy and so on. That's not true. I bent my head, and I said a physical, physiological reason, but I want to say something about this debate about a candidate for the Minister of Agriculture. We are a country, as you know, where everyone understands football, the assembly of a football state team, is understood in agriculture and other things, which is the expression of our some Serbian potential. In doing so, you can see that there is a potential. Here, several MPs accused the state of not paying. My fellow Members, my fellow Members, the state buys nothing. Yes, the state has set guaranteed prices for several important strategic products, but everything else, especially raspberries, has not bought a single gram unless the Prime Minister has taken it to his wife. Therefore, to be more precise, there is something that can be resented by this government, and it is good for the Prime Minister to hear, and the future minister, to do better in the future. Here, let's say, one thing: we're getting ready to join the European Community, and then we figure out if it's going to be 2007, 2012. It's just, I wrote it, it's going to be in "Bleek," we're rushing bears into a hole, and we're not preparing for that moment to enter an organized society where agriculture is regulated to the smallest detail. Most of the European Community's budget goes to agriculture. There are rules, you remember this sugar affair, when we were lifted from our three-month benefits, etc. So, we have to face the situation, that we have a million small households, a bad cooperative movement, they're not united, we don't have a long-term strategy in agriculture. We are the land in which the offering and the harvest depends on a good rain. When she's gone, she's gone, we're gonna knock down the green bostan this summer. We need to establish a strategy in which land use, irrigation, etc. will be used. be questions this government has to deal with. I've known Mr. Jevtic for a long, much longer and better time than many of you here, and I can say that Stojan Jevtic is a qualified man for this place. I only advise him, as well as the Prime Minister... (President: I'm just warning you of overstepping allowed time. Smart man... (President: I'm telling you, you've exceeded allowed time. Mr. Yevtić, Mr. Zivkovic, a smart man uses someone else's brains as well. Call, consult, there are, believe me, dozens of smart, wise peasants. It's enough to go to the market, to the fair, and see how people have good ideas in the conversation. We need to come up with a policy that will make this agriculture the renewable branch of industry, which at least depends on foreign impulses, which is repeated every year in the form of the sun, etc. to valorize in a better way. I spoke, but you were deaf. I support Mr. Yevtic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-17-0.u31362	The basis for the replica? The point is, she's not offended, the prime minister said you voted. You can't approach the pay phone until I give you my word. The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic. The next to be reported is MP Zoran Nikolic. Natasa Jovanovic, a Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group. I ask the MPs to read Article 97, who has the right to reply. There are rules that must be respected.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-17-0.u31363	It is called the Rules of Procedure of the Democratic Party of Serbia and the rest of the DOS, and like other representatives of the Serbian Radical Party, I know best what your Rules of Procedure looks like because you have repeatedly applied it to Serbian Radical Party MPs. What I wanted to say today, when this government of the Republic of Serbia, without the real and real support of the parliamentary majority, chooses a new agriculture minister, is the fact that agricultural producers in Serbia this year, in addition to those year and a half of your rule, the disaster that struck them, have hit two major disasters. The first was certainly Dragan Vesenov, who I will no longer talk about, because of your application of the Rules of Procedure, and because he is now a past to the government, and is also a member of one extremely destructive sect, and the second elemental disaster is a drought that has been recorded to me by the statisticians, to this extent over the last 160 years. Today, farmers in Serbia, both in Šumadija and in Vojvodina, Macva, everywhere expect that something will happen to them, so that those who suffered most, firstly under the communist regime, and under the left-wing regime, because of the carelessness and lack of feelings of the then government, know what will happen further, for us Serbs, the strategic economics branch, given that our metal complex is completely destroyed, and the car industry, that the cementists are sold out and that we are expected to continue to sell out businesses. We are a people who could, and also today, after the disaster of 78 days of NATO's evil bombing pact, we can still boast that we have the healthiest country, air and water. Our prominent agrarian experts have appeared and promoted what a Serbian peasant can produce at the most important central agricultural events, both in Europe and in the world. The case wanted many of these experts in the field of agrarians, as part of my profession, to take to these central agrarian events. One of the biggest is, of course, Mr. Jeftic knows, the one that is held in Venice every March. We have faced the fact, which is what the Serbian Radical Party has been potential since its founding, that the agrarian is systematically destroyed by communists in our country. And, of course, those who were deceived, who showed you confidence in 2000, will now raise the hook and the hook, that's what I'm telling you, because on May 29th, it was moved to September because they were robbed and the worse they live, and farmers are in a much worse situation than when their mustaches were ripped. They expected the government elected in January, so the one that continued continuity and what Minister Zivkovic had promised them, and the rest of the government, to do something to get them out of the desperate situation they were in. That didn't happen. We have the largest budget so far, with the biggest budget deficit, we do not have a special agrarian law, and now Mr. Jevtic is offering himself as an important expert and expert. You know, for us Serbian radicals, an expert in the field of agriculture can be the master of the Serbian Radical Party, which is, in addition to being a master of technology science and a respected agricultural producer and is not ashamed of it. All the hosts of the Serbian Radicals of Vojvodina can be all those people who, regardless of which foreigners, know today that this government is doing nothing to improve, because the government itself is watching it survive. They don't care about the harvest, they don't care about the drought, they wait and nick the days until the late ones arrive, whatever calendar you want, May 29th, and then the villagers will say theirs. So in Šumadia, so in the centre of Serbia, where a few days ago, one of the most famous, not only of us, but once in Europe, is your local industry. That's right in Vojvodina where the sugars were sold out for three euros each. We can't talk about your professional qualifications today, because we only got that on paper. What I know and what the SRS knows, and how it disqualifies you to be so recommended by Mr. Zivkovic, is the fact that you are obviously a man for all time, from the communist and beyond. It is impossible to be the director of Agrobank in 1992, so that you give a loan to Dragoljub Markovic, who eats inflation after a year, and that today as a man, you light the past and I do not know what qualifications you come before the National Assembly. After all, your century of ministry will be very short, and not only will we know that you will vote, Mr. Zivkovic, the election of Mr. Jevtic, we know that, of course, because you do not have a legitimate majority, we know that soon in this country, the court will have to judge by justice and justice, so you will be responsible for all the anti-constitutional decisions, for the citizens of Serbia who are not MPs sitting in this assembly and what such citizens today, who do not feel the suffering of the people, will vote Mr. Jevtic as Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-17-0.u31364	The word has been made by MP Zoran Angelkovic, the SPS parliamentary group. Then, MP Zoran Nikolic, the DSS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-17-0.u31365	Ladies and gentlemen, of course, the election of a new minister in the government is always an opportunity to talk about the government. Besides, the change in government when she's not, God forbid, caused by a higher power, but rather some problem with the government, she's a crisis with the government. Did the minister resign because he was drowsy or because it was raining or because he was doing bad, that's the second question, but the point is that he resigned, which means the government's obligation to report what was happening in the ministry in the previous period, while the minister was working. It's impossible for us to talk about the new minister now, how he's good, nice, nice, which, of course, nobody here slows down without telling us what he's coming into, what and what work he's going to work on. The Prime Minister here said that we are trying to prevent a man who knows his job and can help this government. You know, this government and the Prime Minister at the beginning of the opening presentation, proposing a new minister, said that God is not helping either, and that we MPs will help if God does not help this government; and the previous minister said that he talks to God every day and beg him to help it rain. Why does this government expect us opposition MPs to help her? We're not stronger than God. You don't need Zoran, Prime Minister, my help. I haven't even tried, though I'm not sure he doesn't need it. You're not mine that Mr. Zivkovic thinks is helping me, because he says, there's enough of mine to help me. You're not mine, you're yours. Just because they're yours, that's why you paid them, that's why you took them, that's why you brought them here to help you. Do not be in a position to help you look for that help when you are already commenting on that help. We understand each other, of course. Now let's go back to agriculture. I think it's necessary here, when we already have the Prime Minister, to clarify some questions about agriculture. Maybe we'll hear from the new minister that answer, it's impossible not to hear who took out the wheat this year, and that's why the stock reserves lost three billion dinars. Which the exporters exported at a lower price than it was bought and thus the state lost three billion dinars. We need to know that in order to see if the minister can get started successfully and make that part of the job right. The second question, who is, which is why, as well as on what, and last time I asked that, which is why, by order of G17 plus, we split the flour by a billion and 514 million dinars, and then instead of the ones who took the flour on the loan... The flour was delivered by order probably by the Minister of Agriculture, because it is impossible, it must propose a minister of agriculture, the Serbian government made a decision and paid a billion and 540 million dinars for flour that was delivered to private bakers who did not pay for it. What? We need to answer and find out the answer to those questions. I have to be honest, we SPS MPs expected the new minister to start with a clean situation when it comes to sugar. I expected, to be honest, and we were fully convinced that here in the Serbian Parliament today we would get information that the Prime Minister said - we are convinced that in 15 days, the European Union will lift the ban on sugar exports, because we have discussed exactly who exported sugar, who earned it (and some say 40-50-60m dollars or euros on sugar exports), who made the "sugargate" affair and which is why farmers will not be able to sell sugar produced in the European Union and get a higher price. In this way, it will provide a good basis for the new minister to be able to function successfully in this area, and that with his knowledge he gained working together with us (in the end, we too, but also from him, of course, he worked with us), succeeds in helping this government and that it goes on. If he has all these tails to take over the Ministry, with all the outstanding questions, then I am absolutely sure that this ministry will not be able to work successfully, nor will the minister be in a position, and he can be whatever you want, in the area of agriculture anything he does. It is necessary, of course, that we know, and I hope that MPs will talk about it, because they have representatives from those parts that have producers of raspberries and blackberries, so that they explain how it is possible to buy out raspberries and blackberries in 2000, and that one year later and two years later, they are bought out by brand and 80 pfenig, by mark and 10, etc. How is it possible that it is now a cheaper purchase of raspberries than it was, and the world market has not dropped the price of raspberries and blackberries? Where is this difference and where are those promises to share profits with the producers of raspberries and blackberries? That's all the questions that need to be clear here, and we need to know, that we're not criticizing tomorrow the new minister for those issues that have been going on, not that we're coming into a position to keep it a secret. Besides, you know what, I think it'd be good if we put in a secret vote here. If it's a secret vote, then the MP doesn't have the right to check on whom anyone voted. If it is a public vote, and the public vote writes in the Rules of Procedure, the question of the electronic system of calculation, then it is mandatory to make it available to every man, every citizen, every journalist, and the MP, there is no dilemma about it. We don't have the right here as MPs when it's a public vote, so we know who voted. So what kind of state do we live in, if what's logical is to be public and it says that we don't have the right to know in public, but we've been here persecuting ourselves for a month whether or not we're going to get a listing. Why don't we have a right? Because it's obvious that those socialists that the Prime Minister just spoke of, that these former Socialists are actually voting, and they're on that document, and now they're not responding, and you don't have the right to see it clearly. You have to put it to the public, because it's a public vote, it's not secret. When you want to hide them, then declare a secret vote, a box here, and we won't ask at all, because a secret vote, it says in the Rules of Procedure, is a clean thing. This can't be a public vote, it can't be a secret box. It can't. It was 1947, it was communists, I don't know which it was, in 1946, but that was then, it couldn't be anymore, it wasn't good to do it again. Therefore, please, if the government of Serbia wants to do so and if the Prime Minister sincerely wants the ministry to work successfully, because Mr. Jevtic is successfully leading this ministry, then it is necessary to underline the line and that we know the answers to these questions today. Then perhaps the minister will work easier, and when we talk about the ministry, we will not open these questions that were before him, but we will open (if there are) some new bad questions, and if there are good questions, we will talk about good questions. Today we can't talk and support him, because we simply don't have any of the previous ones as an answer. We don't deal with who is, how, in the red light, let the police deal with it, but it is also a question of when it's being persecuted for months, so eventually it's being resigned because of that fact. That's it. Because of all these things and if we get all these answers then we can talk in a different way, but until these questions are answered we will be forced, both in the O.R. and out of the O.R., to open these questions.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-17-0.u31366	The word is by MP Zoran Nikolic, followed by Ljubomir Kragovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-17-0.u31367	Dear Members, I am very sorry that Mrs. Micic is not here. You're not really familiar with the situation, but the DSS had the right to reply because the prime minister here said that the statement of views, or criticism at the expense of the Ministry of Agriculture, is actually hypocrisy by the DSS and I really think that we have the right to answer that. I'm glad we agree (he's talking to the Prime Minister who's nodding his head), but we disagree on another important thing - we have a different experience of parliamentaryism. You said i.e. You sent a message to the chairman to punish the MPs for not speaking here about the work of Minister Veselinov. You have suggested that we leave Mr. Vesenov's work to the court of history. Now, the difference in our experience of parliament is that you cannot leave the work of a minister of history before Parliament's history, or Parliament's opinion. So the parliament is discussing the work of the minister, the government's work, whether or not the government has a strategy on this issue. Mr. Zahari Trnavčević, who said here that he would support Mr. Minister, I support it, because I know that he is in agriculture all his life, but I simply cannot support it, even if I have the best intention, if the candidate for the minister for this speaker does not speak a word about agriculture. From the opening presentation of the prime minister, and the exhibition was, I must admit, quite modestly, we did not know what the new minister's strategy was, and hence the new ministry. Your speech is now announcing the continuity of the ministry's work. Now, if it's about continuity, then we need to talk about what happened in 2001, 2002, what trends, what results are like, and if you intend to fix it. It's not hypocritical and it's not demagogy. What you've been doing is hypocritical, because you're obliged to give specific information here. If I tell you, and I'll let you know, how the budget is implemented and how it was implemented in 2001 and 2002, it clearly indicates that the government, or the resolution ministry, had no strategy in the field of agrarians. If you continue working like that, you're simply obliged to say what you're going to do this year, what you can do. We don't do demagogy. We don't expect any major shifts. The money needed to invest in agriculture is huge. The government may have other priorities, but then it's fair to say. We need to know if we get a donation, if we have some money, let's say 50 million dollars, how does that money go away? We haven't had a government report in two years. He never came to this parliament and never discussed the government's work. You think it's normal, that it's the parliament of a democratic state? The OSCE Commission has given us a recommendation on how we should organise parliament, especially on expert committees. We didn't respect that. We didn't propose to form a public account committee, which is perfectly normal...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-17-0.u31368	People's MP, I would ask you to return to the topic; when you present information that is not related to the agenda, which is the work of the Assembly committees, then to state exactly the fact that you received as a record from the OSCE Commission, the MPs of this assembly worked.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-17-0.u31369	The OSCE Commission has made its recommendations, and just one of the recommendations that we have also respected is to form a public account committee, i.e. public finances. This congregation majority didn't want it, and I sent a message and I'm sending...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-17-0.u31370	People's MP, I warn you that in the course of your discussion you should take care of the truth. Therefore, the OSCE Commission did not make any recommendations. The proposal for a Committee on Public Accounts was presented by a MP from your MP's club, and it's not part of the OSCE Commission, so I'm asking you to...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-17-0.u31371	You obviously didn't read the material the OSCE Commission gave all the participants in that joint meeting...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-17-0.u31372	People's MP, I've written this material and I know very well what it says in that material, and I'm asking you to quote the recommendations on the board and the action plan exactly as well as get back on the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-17-0.u31373	Then we come to this famous subject of hypocrisy, because if you wrote it and voted in parliament the opposite, then let's see who's hypocritical here, whether it's the Democratic Party or the DSS. But I don't want to argue with you. You're in disharmonic with the Prime Minister, because the Prime Minister has just declared here that he agrees with what I've been saying here. So the only thing we can mark as positive is those tax reliefs, the release of food products for 20% of the tax, but this has proved insufficient and we have one big problem, and that is that despite these tax exemptions, our agricultural food products still have a high price compared to the environment. We are therefore unable to be competitive on the market, both in the environment and beyond, which concerns us greatly. When I talk about money, I'm also talking about this famous donation from the government of Japan of $10 million given to certain producers. That money was invested in repromaterials and equipment, but we don't know until today, since that money started coming back, it comes back during 2003 and 2004, where that money will be further invested. Whether it will be invested in some programmes in agriculture or again in some social programme, because we know what the budget situation is. The agricultural budget is constantly shrinking. The budget for 2002 is smaller than in 2001, and what's catastrophic is that it hasn't happened anywhere, I think maybe the Ministry of Education, although I admit that I'm not following it enough, but I know for a fact that in the Ministry of Agriculture, such a budget has not been implemented until the end and the data are devastating. For example, determine a certain amount of water supply money without spending even 15% of it, that with one marketing action all of Serbia is buzzing about how the Ministry of Agriculture and the Government invests in the country's fruit growing, and that with only 5% we realise the programme. I'm asking, why is that? Why wasn't this discussed on the Agriculture Committee? In the Committee on Agriculture, regardless of party membership, people who care about agriculture and who want good agriculture; but, can you imagine the fact that we never had the honour of being visited by a resolution minister once for those 22 sessions, so I did vote for Mr. Vesenov in January 2001, but I didn't have the chance to meet him. It's not the hypocrisy we voted on, because one of the DOS platforms was exactly and establishing an agrarian strategy and agriculture was one of the priorities of the future government. That's what we voted for. And, let me remind you, at that time we had Assistant Minister Mladen Rankovic, but we left that government when we saw that the Ministry of Agriculture, as well as other ministries, was not working as we promised the people. I do not want to take time away from my colleagues who will mainly talk about the area of water industry, in which the situation is the most catastrophic, but I would say just one more thing - that in these two and a half years, the Ministry has managed to put only two legislative proposals in the assembly procedure, the law on ethanol and the law on alcohol, wine and brandy, and that they have never even come here on the agenda, which again speaks of how agriculture and the laws in this area are experienced by the majority of the congregation. So, this legislative activity can almost qualify as zero, that legislative activity did not exist at all. At the last meeting, the Committee unanimously reached a decision and recommended that this assembly be formed by a survey committee on sugar trade. It is clear as the sun that around 80m euros have been earned in this business. The Commission, i.e. the polling committee formed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, imagine, which was headed by Resolute Minister Dragan Veselinov, has actually given one crouton of information, although you are under obligation, so the Assembly Committee has given time to deliver the report to us by 1 June. I don't know why this board formed a government. It is also a job for the Assembly, but that 80m-euro amount itself is, I will remind you, two-thirds of the agrarian budget for 2003. Someone's playing with people's money until there's no money to invest in agriculture. Someone in one year makes 80 million euros. Also, we have concluded that an emergency law on the use of water is in this country. There's nothing going on for two and a half years. We can't talk about droughts when they're already gone. Otherwise, you mentioned that these droughts are already taking on the situation of elemental disasters. That's not true. Still, it's raining a little bit. The situation is much worse for last year, but serious agro-economists have already estimated that the decline in production will be 7-10% compared to last year, so it's not how you described it, although we did have a decline in agricultural production in 2002. I can ask the Minister's candidate to come out and say something, how she sees the development of agriculture, what an agrarian strategy is, and not to keep your mouth shut here, and on the basis of some ten sentences we've heard from the prime minister, we decide here. So, in the absence of a strategy for agriculture, you will certainly not have the support of the Democratic Party of Serbia. It's not hypocrisy. It is one responsible attitude towards an important branch called agriculture, which is so foreign to the government of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-17-0.u31374	On the basis of Article 84(2), I am obliged, according to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, to inform the MP that the candidate for the minister has no business opportunities to address the National Assembly, without doubting that the high level of knowledge of parliamentaryism only uses this as a rhetorical post office; I would be very happy to give Mr Stojan Jevtic a word, but there are no business opportunities for this. If, because of the spirit of parliamentaryism, we can remember that it starts from home education, which means listening to the speaker politely, no matter what he says. The word has the People's MP Ljubomir Kragovic, followed by MP Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-17-0.u31375	Dear ladies and gentlemen, no matter what the Kosovo cycle you've thrown out of our founders' textbooks, I will begin with a sentence from the Kosovo cycle: "What missed Mali Radojica, this is welcomed by Deli Radivoje". Mr. Future Minister, Little Radojica didn't miss anything. He managed to bring our agriculture totally and disastrously to the lowest branches. It means you have nothing to wait for and nothing to do. Of the legal projects, there were two proposals, and none were in the process. Let me remind you that it was an SRS proposal, a sorghum bill that wasn't passed just thanks to this parliamentary majority. We've legally chosen the former minister, and we'll choose the future illegally. The one legally elected - the results are catastrophic, and from the future minister who will illegally choose what results to expect and whether there is something worse than disaster. As an MP, I would recommend to the future minister that he does exactly the opposite of what the former minister did or that he doesn't do and that he doesn't do anything that the former minister did or that he doesn't do anything at all, that we leave it to our peasant, our agrarian to handle himself. All the government measures that have been so far have been disastrous for our peasant. Import and export policies were catastrophic. Why is there no such control and why not protect the basic agricultural products our agrarian produces? Why is the foreign trade deficit, Mr. Prime Minister, $4 billion and why is there no subsidy in agriculture? Why is there no price guaranteed in agriculture, and what about agricultural loans? Credits are necessary for any development. So, what about the irrigation program? What I have stated is in favour of the fact that the Ministry worked disastrously, and this is not the product of the Ministry itself, but the product of the entire Serbian government. Finally, I would like to tell you, Mr. Minister, that since the prime minister is asking for this, that 120,000 Serbs live in Kosovo and Metohija and since the DOS came to power, no programme has been in Kosovo and Metohija, as if it does not exist. No one got anything from the Department of Agriculture. I say to you most responsiblely that no farmer, no Serb in Kosovo and Metohija has received anything. No crep got to cover the barn. If you find such a Serb in Kosovo and Metohija, to whom Covic or that ministry gave a crep for the house, I am ready to eat the crep.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-17-0.u31376	The word is from MP Rajko Baralic, followed by MP Petar Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-17-0.u31377	I don't wear pajamas. I protest the way you organise congregation work in Serbia. That's my political attitude. As long as the camera stays in front of the toilet, not in this room, I'll dress unconventional and hope it doesn't come out of the frame of good taste. I usually dress up in a "Tiffani Salesman" brand. I carry everything from Chuck and spend all my money in Chuck, and you're too much here. Mrs. Komic, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Yevtic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I don't know Mr. Jevtic personally, and I can't talk about him. From the biography we read, there are references that recommend it for this place. What I'm trying to say here is that the reputation of a cabinet is a sublime reputation of all cabinet members, and before you, Mr. Jevtić, it's a difficult task for you to use your professional reputation, because here I am talking about, to raise the reputation of a cabinet that obviously does not apply to those in Serbia. The area whose portfolio is being fought today in this parliament, agriculture, water and forestry is still the only healthy substance in this country. Everything else is either sold out or doesn't work or doesn't make any profit. We may have been able, for the reasons cited here by counterpart Toma Busetic and some other MPs, to give you support, but unfortunately, we cannot because we disagree with the concept of functioning and the strategy of the cabinet represented here by Mr Zoran Zivkovic and other colleagues in the government. Today, the head of the DOS parliamentary club, Serbia's Reform, Mr. Bojan Pajtic, said that during the time of the government, Mirko Marjanovic did not work much. There's a little problem. During the term of office of Mr. Mirko Marjanović, Mr. Jevtic was the director of the Institute for Agriculture in Serbia, consisting of the Institute of Fruiting in Čačka, the Institute of Strandna Cereals, the Institute of Feed Plants, etc. Maybe it's just because of the profession. I would still not be willing to claim that there were no political reasons and political support. If that were the only case, we could understand that, but if Comrade Tito were alive today, he would be very proud; along with Mr. Covic, Mr. Dulet Mihajlovic, Mr. Isaac, we have more people with great recommendations from the best age of the Union of Communists of Serbia and the Communist Party of Yugoslavia. Whatever colleagues have been trying to talk about the program today, everything they've brought into contact with this portfolio, the chairman has been challenged, with an argument that it's not a topic. Unfortunately, there is only one issue in Serbia, it is the indignation of citizens because of the conditions in which they live, because of the ambience that was created, because of the promises you failed and because of everything else, which makes life in Serbia more complicated and more difficult every day. It is not fair that for reasons that have been the formal object of Mr. Veselinov's resignation, we choose a new minister. You should have the strength to say it was the wrong choice. As a MP, as a man who represents 30,000 citizens here, I don't want anyone to leave the cabinet of any government with such an explanation, especially the government in which I live. The Socialist Party of Serbia, whatever you think of it, felt that the place of the agriculture minister should always belong to Vojvodina. Your story of decentralisation, of omnibus law, and everything else that goes along with it, there's a different epilogue here today. It would be normal, it would be polite, it would be politically thoughtless if this vault were always held by the Duke's personnel. That doesn't require any particular argument. Of course, as people living in central Serbia, we would have reason to be pleased that the minister from our neighborhood, which is Minister Moravac, but I think that place belongs, first of all, to the area where the largest agricultural production is made and where the objectively the greatest possible effects in this area are. That's all I wanted to say, since there's no more time to leave for the rest of my colleagues. In the end, it is not good for more than 60 days for 10 laws to be passed in Serbia, that citizens know nothing about it, that citizens can't get a biography or a candidate for a minister, in a way they deserve. But there goes the fall, there goes the election, we meet where we have to meet, and one day we'll leave it where it belongs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-17-0.u31378	The word has been given by MP Petar Cvetkovic, followed by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-17-0.u31379	Ladies and gentlemen, we are just now seeing why the Rules of Procedure has been injured, why I have no right, according to the Rules of Procedure, to the public of my presentation, or speech. This will not be recorded by any media, nor will the citizens, regardless of the rules of the Rules of Procedure, and not only my discussions, but also the discussions of all MPs here, as well as the Prime Minister. They will be denied the arguments and will be denied the right to make their own assessment, i.e. take their stand on what is happening in a very important part of economic life, in agriculture, or in the part of agriculture in Serbia. That's right, someone decided outside this parliament that there's no transmission, there's no public, there's not going to be one. What's important at this point is that one agriculture minister has left, whether or not you know for your own free will, not because of his actions in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, or in his ministry, because I don't think it's an insult to say that he was at least doing his job as a minister, but unfortunately for the loss of a human life and his behaviour about it. But I won't talk about it anymore, it's not a topic, although at this point everything about the work of the minister was the previous one, as well as the work of the Government of the Republic of Serbia for the past period. If we were to look at and evaluate the views and warn the chairmanship of the assembly, then we could only talk about the character and the work or personality of the new candidate for the Ministry of Agriculture, and we should never mention it here, in any way, in any way, and especially in a critical tone. We must also talk about the work of the Government and the work of the Ministry, because contrary to the Government Act, where there is the obligation of the Republic Government to submit a report to the Assembly at least once a year, here, two and a half years, we still have not considered such a report from the Government or any ministry in this assembly. However, in order for you to not correct me, there have been reports from individual ministries to resolution committees, but it is a very narrow circle of people and you will allow one MP to not follow the work of all resolution committees in one parliament. It must therefore be said that the former minister's work has been very bad, not only because he has not been involved in the affairs of the ministry, in his work, in his jurisdiction, but also because the ministry, as well as the Republic Government, has not taken any steps to improve the conditions in agriculture and water industry. No steps have been taken, nor were there any indications, except for one honorable exception, one law, but, as you know, the exception confirms the rule; there was no initiative, nor was there any impression that there was a strategy, even if there was any will in any place, any person in power, any authority, any authority, to settle this situation in agriculture and to fulfill that election of promises since December 2000. We must therefore point out that this poor work by the Ministry of Agriculture and Water Management has resulted in the general poor work of the Republic government, and therefore, regardless of all the praises about the personality and expertise of the candidate for the Minister (whom I personally do not know, today is the first time I see him), I cannot conclude that he as an individual in government, given the way he works, in practice so far, in government, and if I wish he could not do anything important for agriculture and water industry in Serbia. So again we will have protests from agricultural producers, which are already happening in Serbia. Therefore, protests by early vegetables producers and roadblocks at Leskovec will happen again. Therefore, there will continue to be the destruction of winemaking and wine production; you know, there I have to do one dipression because I know a little bit, if for nothing else, then all neighbouring countries are now accelerating, improving their vineyarding and wine production, exporting to Europe and America, while decisions, that is, by the behaviour of this republican government and the current ministry (and we will see that the new minister, headed by the existing ministry, will act in Serbia), destroy this very production, or vineyardry. So again, and this is something inevitable, this behavior and the work of the government and the ministry will cause new earthquakes and new protests of citizens. I must therefore express my skepticism regarding the possibility of any better, or more successful treatment of the Ministry of Agriculture and Water Management, given the kind of government, or the kind of ministry that the chosen candidate for the Minister of Agriculture will act in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-17-0.u31380	The word has a folk letter from Gordana Pop-Lazic, followed by a folk envoy, Hranislav Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-17-0.u31381	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, or the prime minister, do not know the candidate he proposes for the minister, or the minister has kept something quiet in his biography, because he has been in Agrobanca since 1982, where he has been doing the jobs of the Director of the Planning and Development Affairs Sector and has been doing the jobs of the Director of the Institute for Agriculture Research since 1992. On the note of my colleague, Vjerica Radete, that he was one of those directors of Agrobanka, who helped Markovic, known as "Croak Product", to start and start his empire, he said, at the time, that he was not the director of Agrobanka, it was 1990. You obviously failed to tell me what you were doing in the meantime, but regardless, I wasn't in a position to find out if you were in this transitional government as a member of the SPS, the Democratic Party, some third or fourth party that made that transitional government, since you were obviously a man for all time. Being an expert, many here presented themselves as experts: Vlahovic was an expert until he became a member of the Democratic Party's General Committee, and Djelic is an expert, until he became a member of G-17 plus, so the health minister is also a health expert until he became a member of G-17 Plus, and Dinkic is also an expert on experts. But here, for some moral reasons, the previous minister resigned; it was much more moral that he resigned there much earlier because of the defeating results in agriculture, and it would be most necessary for the Prime Minister to resign because of the results in agriculture and the situation in agriculture that we have today. Today at the Pogorjevac MIP, or Meat Industry Pogorec, has a roadblock, since this morning cannot pass; a completely destroyed company since 2000, has been involved in meat processing, meat production is huge, low prices, precisely because there is no one to process; they have a strategic partner, wants to buy them out, wants to pay their debts, but the one from Russia does not match the former Minister Veselinov or some lobby from the government, so you will also have this problem. Yesterday I was in Merošina, one of the raisers also warn the government, they have a roadblock, today they will continue with this, 18 dinars is a buyout of cherry; the government, meanwhile, has decided to subsidize exporters of cherry and raspberries, not producers, therefore, completely contrary to what should be done. But whoever this government and this prime minister is proposing here cannot please us, because we are absolutely aware that agriculture is of no interest to you. However, this is where the Prime Minister said that we are interested in exporting, that we need to speed up exports. I'd like to remind you that it's not true that we didn't have any exports to agriculture, maybe that's actually the largest amount of foreign exchanges we're going to get, is, thanks to the export of live Serbian meat. Here, on the 13th of this month, we had a contract with the Americans, we arrested Sljivancan, we get $150 million. The deal's been arranged, but today we haven't heard from Colin Powell if he's satisfied. Maybe you know, there's no Prime Minister here, and he was probably in a relationship with him, a phone call, so when Sljivancan is in The Hague, or maybe right now, he'll get that 150 million dollars and there's export work for this year. Who next year, I don't know, or maybe next month; you probably have good relations with The Hague tribunal and you know who needs to be exported next. This government can only export live Serbian meat and nothing else. If you think this country can live off that money, it can't. The dignity of the Serbian people has reached the threshold of impatience and don't be surprised by all this happening in the country, don't be surprised, because what happened after this victory by our water polomen who were threatened in the field, fans who were threatened in the stands, and no one from this country has invested a protest note to the Croats or the Slovenians... (President: National MPs, please return to the topic - the selection of the Minister of Agriculture. )......................................................................................................... Only he could irritate the people to react as he reacted. You don't think about anything, gentlemen dear, you can suggest whoever you want, for us this government no longer exists, and if you think good to your people, it's best that you all resign and call elections, so let's see what the people think about you and us all.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-17-0.u31382	The word is given by the People's Messenger, Hranislav Peric, and after that, the People's Messenger Slavoljub Matic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-17-0.u31383	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today is the day of the election of the Minister of Agriculture, Mr Stojan Jevtic, and we don't mind. You are the government, you are the artificial majority in this House and we have no objection that you proposed Stanko Kovacevic or Marijan Risticevic or Banet Ivkovic for the Minister of Agriculture today. You're with that, unfortunately, most of us, and we wouldn't be surprised if these names were candidates for members of the government. I have to say that we essentially have nothing against the name that will stand in the proposal for the Minister of Agriculture, but we are against your agriculture programme, because you have no solutions for agriculture. We didn't have anything against Veselinov, he's not a bad man, he was the only one who didn't know anything about agriculture at all. The only condition that has been met by the current minister is that he was born in Banat, where agricultural production was developed. The only activity of Minister Veselinov was in the hunting work, will be remembered for reducing the fund of deer and deer savages in Serbia's hunting grounds and for the hunters having trouble defending the hunting ground from the minister. I suppose this proposal for the Minister of Agriculture is also not bad, it also says that Stojan Jevtic is known as an agricultural expert, but it also says that in such a short time as the Minister of Agriculture can do nothing, he will only spend a token. A lot of poor agriculture in the past two or three years, so the future minister owns a magic stick and he wouldn't have helped him much. Come out here, so tell me, future minister of police. If someone's getting ready for the minister's office, they shouldn't throw it out of the bench. (President: People's Parliament, I ask you not to engage in dialogue with MPs in benches, and I ask you all others to remember the respect of the Rules of Procedure and to listen to the speaker with attention. With this change in government, it won't get much. It'll be like patching up your shirt and she's never whole again. Early fruit purchases in Serbia began these days. The raspberries and cherries are being harvested. Farmers are dissatisfied with the ransom price. They're blocking the roads and they have no one to turn to in this country to solve this problem. If the government has no time to deal with this issue, then it is necessary to announce who controls the export of fruit, who keeps it under control, that people know who to turn to, because it has become a constant habit that for every product in Serbia has some control and who works with these products. The price of cherry in the ransom is 18 dinars, which is 50 pfenig and it is the far lowest price since there is cherry in the meroshin area. I know you'll say, "And how long it was when you were in power." When we were in power, a farmer got one brand for a kilo. Yesterday, when I left Meroshina, there was a roadblock in Meroshina-Prokuplje, and the peasants hired me to pass it on to the government to send the bulldozers out to get the cherry, and that way you'll hire a construction operation. The farmers are still ordering -- enough is enough, we can't carry the state on our backs anymore. Is this government's programme supposed to destroy agriculture besides the economy? Yesterday, at the passage through Merošin, a colleague of Moma Trajkovic was stopped, and he can pass on what the peasants told you to this parliament. And, finally, I want to say that what you do in agriculture doesn't stand, and it doesn't agree with our programme, and that's why we won't vote for this proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-17-0.u31384	The word is made by the People's MP Moma Trajkovic. Do you use five minutes in the Rules of Procedure or the right to replication?
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-17-0.u31385	Yeah, it's true. Yesterday, when I was passing through Meroshina, I was stopped by the cherry producers, who expressed their great dissatisfaction at the offered ransom price. I think the new minister will immediately consider the issue and not offer a solution offered by previous counterpart Peric, will not send bulldozers, but will sit down and find the right price for peasants to be satisfied. I think it's really sad to see those peasants wasting their time out there protesting instead of finding a solution. But I suggest we not delay much, but choose the minister, whom I support, and the minister begins to do this job. That way we'll help the villagers who are protesting today. I should also say, since I am the director of a agricultural company and here in front of you all - Ratar, Laplje Selo, the only Serbian company in central Kosovo, has 600 hectares of land, and I am its director. Although I am in power, a member of the DOS presidency, a MP, I must say that this company since I've been the director, and even since the DOS has been in power, no one has helped anything. I publicly propose here that we meet, talk and help these peasants, because 600 hectares of the country's heart in Kosovo will remain unprocessed because agriculture in Kosovo and Metohija is in an exceptional situation. I expect the minister and the issue to be considered and I support Mr Jevtic's choice and to get to work because we have major problems ahead of us.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-17-0.u31386	The speech is attended by MP Zarko Obradovic, president of the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group, and then by MP Slavoljub Matic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-17-0.u31387	Dear fellow Members of the People, I will use my second announcement to say a few words on the current agenda on behalf of the Socialist Party's parliamentary group, if I have to repeat some views and some to clarify. You saw from the presentation of fellow Socialist Party of Serbia MPs that no one questioned Mr Stojan Jevtic's personality. It is indisputable that Mr. Jevtic has those references that recommend him for this job. His résumé speaks, and I think it's unnecessary to say anything. What we consider important for this story about the election of a member of the government, the Minister of Agriculture, is that Mr. Jevtic is already working in the government, the deputy minister. He's basically part of the team. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the post: He is an adviser to the prime minister. ) (President: National MP, candidate Mr Stojan Jevtic is not deputy minister. I would ask you to show our respect to the National Assembly with precise words. ) Mr. Jevtic was a volunteer advisor, volunteer advisor, call whatever you want, but in any case he was someone who, if he was a consultant, had also defined the views of the Prime Minister and Government in this area. What's important to say is that the simple situation in the country's agriculture is not good. You can't get away from that. I mentioned in the morning, speaking of this subject, that there is an absolute indicator that speaks of it. I think it's worth talking about today, too. The fact is, this is shown by statistics, in 2002 agricultural production indices in Serbia compared to 2001 are smaller, 98.2 compared to 118.2. In plant production 94.2 versus 148.9. In warfare and vegetables 95.1 versus 160.7. For statistics only. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the site: You read badly. You come out later, Mr. Prime Minister, and deny me. Fruit production - 71.5 versus 88; vineyarding - 103.7 versus 116; cattle production - 101 versus 101.2. I have to say for livestock and pork is a bigger index. When it comes to production of more important agricultural products, production in thousands of tonnes, 2002 compared to 2001, the Republic of Serbia: wheat - 2.240 thousand tonnes compared to 2.530, it means less; corn 5.586 compared to 5,910; sunflower 280 versus 318; tobacco is almost the same; sugar tails must say it is something more; potatoes 929 thousand tonnes compared to 1,027 tonnes; beans 57 thousand tonnes versus 61 thousand tonnes; plums, traditional Serbian product - 197 thousand tonnes versus 333 thousand tonnes. Malina is a little more - 94 than 78, but with raspberries, Serbia has an objective problem and does not know what to do with them. Strikes that are these days... When I say he doesn't know what to do with them, they don't know what to do with them. They were expecting help, intervention, some solution from the state. In fact, it is not unknown that these days these peasants who produce raspberries have prevented several roads both in Mali Zvornik and in Ljubovija, and in Užic, and in Arilj, and in Požega, Ivanjica and Dragacheva. They are not satisfied with the fact that the government has done nothing, nor is it intended to involve itself in this issue of manufacturing, buying and transporting raspberries. And last year, there was dissatisfaction. We know that our colleague Micovic could not come to work for days because he was prevented. The buy-in price is less than one euro, and some of the debts mentioned last year are as the requirements of the raspberries producer. You have heard now and fellow Food Peric, and producers of cherry from Merošina and these parts will also strike, because they are offered a very low ransom price; simply, people are in a situation that they can't pay even the basic costs, even if the effort invested is worth it, not to mention a minimum profit. So, generally, the situation in Serbia's agriculture is bad and what we're going to do, is what it is and it can't be helped, but it doesn't need to be run away from that topic. Today we heard from the Prime Minister a sentence -- if anyone has a say, we'll listen. I am taking this very opportunity, Mr. Zivkovic, you are the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, to suggest, and you listen if you appreciate that there is something you do, and if you don't appreciate it, my God, you have your concept and you'll sort it out. We believe that the objectives of the state in the area of agriculture are: long-term agrarian policy, stable financing and encouraging lending of agriculture, pooling of agricultural properties, real-price policies with the proper parity, the development of agricultural cooperatives and its conversion into cooperative business systems. We believe that these objectives can be achieved in addition to guaranteed prices and the establishment of long-term parities of prices between reromats and final products, through a strong and well-organised agrarian bank, which, with food industry, business banks and agrarian budget, will lend agriculture; through an incentive tax policy for the development of livestock, the production of mineral fertilisers, seed products and other repromation; through market training of commodity reserves; through specific funds for the promotion of exports; through customs protection according to European Union rules; by reducing the tax obligation to invest in the development of agriculture in rural areas, the restoration of machinery; the organisation of agricultural land and the system of irrigation and the anti-proliferation system. I think it's something that the Socialists can lead us forward, and it's up to the government to assess whether it's worth it or not. Of course, he'll accept what he thinks he needs. Anyway, I'm going back to the beginning of the story. The point is that they are simply not controversial about the quality of Mr. Jevtic, they are not mentioned today, but we believe that the objective situation in agriculture is such that Mr. Jevtic will be part of a losing team and that this situation cannot move the best, for the simple reason that for two and a half years the ministry has been leading one policy and regardless of your quality, we are absolutely convinced that this thing cannot be moved even the pedal of the best. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-17-0.u31388	The People's MP Slavoljub Matic has the word, followed by MP Stevan Kesejić.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-17-0.u31389	Ladies and gentlemen, three bad years, three bad budgets, and I mean the 2001, 2002 and 2003 budget, the accidental spending of water resources on the economy, the disorganization of the water business service and the poor work of the administration's body, combined with weather or opportunities, however you wish, are a real elemental disaster for farmers in Serbia. Before high temperatures started, the story of the construction of a irrigation system, to a new 200,000 hectares of surface, should be re-launched to answer a few questions. First, what makes most of the existing 160,000 hectares not operational, and those irrigation systems that are used to work with half-capacities? Which is why farmers don't use so-called farmers. favourable loans to build a irrigation system and why is there no economic interest in strengthening agricultural production in Serbia? Why did domestic equipment manufacturers disappear from the market? These are questions, and I will address the prime minister and the government on this occasion, because according to the Rules of Procedure, there is really no opportunity for the minister to give us an answer, but I suppose the prime minister has opportunities. Unfortunately, Mrs. Comic, I must blame you and your predecessor for the very poor conduct of today's session. First, this parliament did not provide its authority to receive regular reports from the resolution ministries, and then we have one extraordinary circumstance, which is the resignation of the minister, not to mention why it was filed. Unfortunately, it has not been submitted for what might have prevented a tragic event here near this House, and it is best that we don't talk about it at all today. It's a tragic subject. So when we don't have the opportunity to comment, when we'll have the opportunity. Probably when we choose a new minister. Don't get it, Mr. Prime Minister, it's hypocrisy from the DSS. That's our job. We're not ashamed of it. I know perfectly what the deputy minister was doing, and I mean Mr. Mladen Rankovic, and I know how many critical remarks he had on the work of that ministry, and he's been trying in every way possible to improve it. I guess Mr. Jevtic, who I met in the election campaign when we all promised Serbian peasants that our future would look like, and especially in agriculture, he knows what I'm talking about. Unfortunately, Mr. Vesenov had to experience such pressure that, I hope, at least with Mr. Jevtic, we could improve that portfolio. He's the blood vessel of our system. You know it well. I'll take advantage of your presence now. I simply want to remind you of this country's obligation to properly deploy these limited financial resources and that once the Vojvodina does not have a special privilege, at least when it comes to the water economy system. What am I talking about? First, I will remind myself that by detaching the company "Vojvodnavod" from "Serbijavod" we have special asymmetry, and as a representative of a local self-government, I know it perfectly well, from the area where you have blue areas every year, I mean the lower flow of Mlava. You have a situation where huge assets go to the Duke, on the one hand. On the other hand, that you have a Mr. Tabasky and not to mention those names, you have the Duke himself. You have a great dissatisfaction, especially in areas that have been devoting a water-based dinar for years, and it's not coming back at all. Listen to me well, future minister, you have even the following situation: Gerdap slows down the underflow, say, my Mlave, and then it happens that because of the desolation they break through those defenders and pour up into Petrovac at Mlavi, Petrovac gets hurt, with the help of the army we somehow save Little Blacks, and of course all the villages down to the Danube, all of it goes to waste. We never get that money back, and believe me, the Fireman and Braničevsky County always stand out the most for it. Now that I'm talking about agricultural topics, about this maternal relationship to, I guess for agriculture the most prospective part of Serbia, and it's not what my part of Serbia is, but what I think all the indicators suggest, I'm going to mention today's blockade of the workers of the Mesna Industries plant Pogorec, MIP. Look what's the point, I'll tell you now. The bottom line is that the state won't give up its claims to the factory, so no one in this country or outside will buy that factory. For two years, workers have been waiting for someone to buy them to start production. However, every serious customer when he sees the balance, bills and debts of the factory comes to the conclusion that he is much cheaper to build a new factory base than to restore production in the factory. I think we should take one different policy and make it possible in such cases to simply find ways. Why? Because the MIP is running livestock production, because the MIP is running the cattle food factory that is standing next to that MIP and is also currently in bankruptcy. That's why we have a series of these brakes, which in fact do nothing to improve that production. And, when it comes to water supply at all, I also have to say that we first banned a number of regulations from having at least a decent price for water. It is impossible to expect a liter and a half of some mineral water to cost as much as a ton or two tons of water for which we expect to just open the tap and make it the same quality as that in a plastic bottle. It's an impossible situation. I think because of a social, demagogue story that we've had for years, when it comes to EPS, we now have a situation where our city's waterways are failing. I don't think we can be painful here, but you show, unfortunately, the same sickness as your predecessors. And, one more thing, I've already talked about slowing down the lower flow of Mlava, look out, Gerdap can't be past the whole system, we just have to return one piece of the power generation revenue if we're to resuscitate areas that are directly threatened by these possible rains, rainfalls, like last year's flood; believe me, even in dry years, we always have at least one that floods at least 200-300 acres of land. Of course, I will resign when I feel it is necessary to allow even with my resignation to advance my fellow citizens' lives, but I also expect it from all those who do not work responsibly. So, Mr. President, if you don't do something about it, I think it would be best, and I still think not only if you intend to resign or not, because of this situation in the country, because of this relationship with parliamentaryism, that there is a need for elections here, and above all this Parliament as a pillar of the Serbian society and the Serbian state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-17-0.u31390	National MP, it would be good for all MPs to contribute equally to parliamentaryism and to assist the chair of the session. If this discussion was that, I thank you. This concludes work for today. The work continues tomorrow at 10.00 hours, and the 52nd session of the Justice and Administration Committee was called for Wednesday 18 June 2003, starting at 10:15 p.m. on the ground floor. Thank you.
