ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-15-0.u32570	Ladies and gentlemen, today is July 15th, and it will soon be three years since the October Revolution, and today, by emergency procedure at an emergency session, we are selecting a Lustration Commission or, as you called it, the Commission for Human Rights Review. I don't know what you've been waiting for, if you've already wanted to do it, what's been going on for three years, or elections are coming up, so now it's time for you to take your positions slowly, and thus eliminate some of your political opponents. And if you can't do it by political will, by citizens, by quality, by popularity, by knowledge, by the results of your government, then at least by putting some people away and preventing them from participating in a political struggle. Which is actually your difference, and these communists, the same kind of October revolution in Russia; the only difference is that they knew immediately to wipe out their political opponents ruthlessly, and it was more important for you to break in and kidnap banks, businesses, customs and thus exercise your power. Therefore, we are now in a position for some minor parties to propose the law you adopted, and now you choose a commission, you choose an Inquisitor Commission that will work again at the will and decisions of the political authority. What's happening to us about that? We happen to have some people in the proposed commission before you adopt that commission already resign. Whether it is unserious or it is the way of government today in Serbia, but it is terrible that the Supreme Court judge, women, will not be informed at all that he will be a member of the Lustration Commission. The woman gave a statement, it was normal for Vida Petrovic-Škero, that through the media she found out she was a member of the lustration committee. This is where the media finds out when the Serbian Parliament is, and who is a member of the commission. People do not consult, but they are informed through the media that they are members of it. If they do not accept, then there are already certain other methods, blackmails, pressures, what today is an integral part of Serbia. The woman states that the law is not precise enough for her as a judge to participate in such a commission. However, some other resignations are now being made here, so this commission proposed obviously will not be. Is it now responsible and is it okay to vote on such a committee? Are we voting here on people who have already resigned? So you gave us members, their professional, scientific qualities. For a commission like this, it was more important to give some of their moral qualities. You should have written down who are all members of the Rotari Clubs, who are members of some sects etc., because here is obviously the moral character of a member of this committee far more important than his professional character. Obviously, some people will thus collapse their professional, scientific, and moral credibility to participate in all this. Under the pressure of politics, in future time, they'll tarnish everything they've created for decades.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-15-0.u32571	The People's Messenger, Slobodan Janjic, has the word, and the following is the Messenger of the people, Djordje Mamul.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-15-0.u32572	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Serbian Radical Party is against one of these laws, because you're going to make us, after the next elections, when we're certainly going to do power, apply this nascent law to all of you. Of course, if this law is valid after some of the choices that will be, hopefully very soon, you will feel its fact. That you will have to, each member individually, feel on your skin. Isn't it enough for you that the DSS MPs feel the fact of this plighted Rules of Procedure that this assembly is working on? They brought it in, and now it's stuck in their heads. It was supposed to be a good school for you, that you don't propose such laws, you don't bring them. I mean, if this bill passes, first of all, the lustration should begin with the chairman of this assembly. Whoever holds the presidency, whether Ms. Micic or Mrs. Comic is chaired in the same way. They need to be spatrated, because in the law-making process, not only is the adoption of the law considered a vote, but all this debate that takes place in irregular conditions without quorum. It's a violation of the law. Such men can never lead the congregation again. He can't chair the MPs to say, "You see, the electronic system says we have a quorum, and there are 30 people in the room." Yesterday, when the quorum was determined, there were seven cards in the front row, and one MP was sitting. In the second row, nine cards, sitting four MPs. There were eight cards and two MPs in the third row and eight cards and one MP in the fourth row. A total of eight MPs and 32 cards. That's how you provided the quorum. Is such a chairperson for lustration if he sees visually that there are no 40 people in the room, and continues the debate. What happened yesterday? When the quorum was unworthy, Mr. Pitiæ ran out and ordered everyone to make a quorum and order those from above to come. I didn't know who that was upstairs. I know that someone in power doesn't have any MPs on the fifth floor. But something happened that, this lady, she's got, it's bigger, she almost ran me down the hall running from the Serbian Unity Party to give the quorum. What did you make them give the quorum? By tearing down the repeater, Mr. Palma? (President: I warn you to return to the agenda topic. This is all about the subject. I say, which is why people will be lustrated, if someone is blackmailed to give a quorum or to support the ruling majority, here in the minority parliament, they will be lustrated. You asked to work until 2:00 p.m. yesterday. Is there a bit of shame and cheek for you to stay 18 in the O.R., so there were 36 of you in the end, you asked the MPs of the opposition to give you a quorum, and you asked us to work until 20.00 hours. We'll be working 24.00 hours and three o'clock in the morning, but be there at least with that minimum, 84 MPs, which you're supposed to provide. The law now passed for the Serbian Radical Party is as important as last year's snow. We say down south, we don't give a shit about it like last year's snow. They won't touch us, we're not afraid of this law, we're just a little embarrassed that we're going to apply it to you, and it's not a law that should apply to political opponents. I also urge the legislator of this law, the chairman of Ms. Micic here, to remove one of this kind of nadal design, because this is not the bill, it withdraws from the procedure and at least part of the shame from its cheek.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-15-0.u32573	The right to replicate the Serbian Unity Party, deputy president of the Serb Unity Party's parliamentary group, MP Petar Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-15-0.u32574	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, has already followed this speaker for the second time, by the MPs of a parliamentary group trying to discredit a lady, who is constantly working in the Serbian Parliament, who is a member of the Serb Unity Party's parliamentary group, who wanted to, and will always do so, that when the quorum is determined she comes to the quorum, because it is an obligation, as she is on permanent work in the Serbian Parliament. Now I ask everyone here if I need responsible, all those who are constantly working in the Serbian Parliament, to be here when meetings of the Assembly are held, or to go running around the halls and to try to make fun of people who want to do their job responsibly and safely. If we want to do so in the future, then let the citizens of Serbia appreciate the next election who it was and they will be best able to do so. That's it. I ask that more, what is disciplined, which is responsible, safe, be not subject to ridicule and every other qualification.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-15-0.u32575	I thank the People's MP. (Zoran Krasic throws out of place. You have no right to a replica. The gentleman used the right to reply to the presentation of MP Slobodan Janjic of the Serbian Radical Party. That's where the replica ends. The word has the People's Messenger George Mamula. The next person registered for the word is MP Ljubomir Kragovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-15-0.u32576	The proposal for the selection of members of the Committee for the Study of Responsibility for Human Rights is a fruit of praise to the efforts made by Mrs Micic and I assume that the days of work, reflection, consultation, knowledge and experience are behind this proposal, in order to present this proposal as the crown of this effort. I must say that I do not share Mrs. Micic's optimism and that I am very reserved under this proposal, especially with regard to most of the proposed figures. The Lustration Act itself is too late, which is why this proposal is supposed to be on the committee, and above all, I find the proposal messy. We should have had the written consent of all the persons who were proposed, to know if they wanted to participate in the work of that commission at all, and not to find out, as yesterday, that three individuals were not even thinking about being on that committee. So, Mrs Vida Petrovic-Skero, the Supreme Court judge, refused to be in the commission and Mr Zoran Nikolic and Petar Petrovic, MPs of the assembly. In addition, yesterday we learned the old argument, we heard again, that Mr. Tamash Korhec has dual citizenship, so, Mrs. Micic, it was also necessary for you to give us proof for the other candidates that everyone has only the citizenship of this country without ever finding out again at the session that your proposal is messy. I think as speaker of the assembly, you should respect this Parliament and make clear proposals, if we respect each other. I don't know what criteria you've been led to when you've defined yourself as Supreme Court judges. Yesterday, you said the Supreme Court judges sent you their proposal. From the facts you state the dates of birth, the end of the law school, when someone became a trainee, in which court he began and how he came to the Supreme Court, without knowing anything about those persons, in which cases they handled, how many were in the criminal council that tried people for hostile propaganda, damage to the reputation of the state, spreading false news. You don't say that here, and neither the gentlemen and the ladies of the Supreme Court provide information about it. So, by being born, by finishing law school and having a working biography, we should be defined for voting for them. Who suggested to you and where you found Bogdan Stankovic, deputy district attorney from 1981 - 1998, one of those who participated in the procedures where people were persecuted for their free thoughts. The Belgrade District Prosecutor's Office is a recordman in the persecution of people for freedom of thought and speech. How can any deputy from 1970 to 2000 ever be a candidate for anything? Now, he was here, however, he was appointed vice-president of the Republic Public Prosecutor in February 2003, and is likely to continue to discipline what is expected of him. For some candidates in the ranks of prominent figures, it is not clear what criteria you have had when you talk about prominent legal experts. How is it possible that no head of the Belgrade Faculty of Law has been proposed? Did you talk to them? No prominent expert, head of the Faculty of Law in Novi Sad, one of the departments of Kragujevsky, Niško. No one will be in it because they think it's beneath them. For some, you list, in detail, literature, in which international-legal forums are members, what they have written, and for some you do not state, so I wonder if this means that all of these works, which you state, have read, have been handled, and you have not read anything from these other works. For example, for Dobrosava Mitrovica of quality, you say he speaks Serbian. Where's that? He speaks Serbian, French, English and Russian. Is it now a quality that the native language knows? Big plus. But don't talk Serbian to others. It would be good if you could explain to us what you've been doing, because you can't figure it out. Vlasimir Jankovic, as I see in today's press, also does not want to be on this committee. So you don't have two candidates for each place, so I have to tell you that this proposal is extremely bad and incorrectly drawn up. However, all those who have not yet decided to give up the call that there is still time to give up their participation in this business and to take care of their professional reputation. Yesterday, Ms. Micic, you said - I held consultations with all the heads of the parliamentary groups, etc., so many did not accept to participate, including the parliamentary group of the Democratic Party of Serbia. Then you pointed out that this is a very bad strategy for 21st century politicians. Are you a 21st-century politician or have you changed your perspective from Užička 23? When it comes to human rights, do you even know whose property you live on?
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-15-0.u32577	The word has the People's MP Ljubomir Kragovic, and the next one registered for the word is MP Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-15-0.u32578	Dear ladies and gentlemen, MPs, a proposal to elect members of the committee to investigate the responsibility for human rights violations or, in short, the Lustration Commission will have two basic objectives: it is one to exert political pressure on the judiciary and the other to exert political pressure on political opponents. Through lustration, we will bring today's judiciary, which is not independent anyway, to become absolutely dependent on the will of the executive government, and through the Lustration Commission all political opponents who will interfere or think differently than the executive government thinks will be lustrated. Otherwise, the proposal itself is incomplete. We're missing 3, 4 and how we hear five candidates today. What is very strange is a delegative approach in proposing this candidate and not the delegating approach where those cells declare themselves about delegates, but the self-will of the president of the Assembly, who through one dictatorship proposes members for the composition of the Lustration Commission. The best example is yesterday's text by Vidi Petrovic-Škero, who says she has learned through the media that she has been proposed as a member of the commission, and since no consent has been obtained, she notes that she does not want to be proposed as a member of the commission. It's listed in a telegram sent to the president of the assembly. This way of proposing a candidate for the Lustration Commission hurts Parliament itself, all MPs in this House. Since the proposal is incomplete, I propose that this proposal be withdrawn, that it be discussed with potential members and only then come in full form before parliament. What worries me, too, as a Serb from Kosovo and Metohija, is why the law has been valid since 1976, not since 1945. Infringements of the human rights of national minorities, I say, were not in the SRJ, but there were drastic violations of the human rights of the majority people, i.e. Serbs, especially Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija. Who do you want to lustrate in Kosovo and Metohija? Do you even have the strength to do that? What's still worrying is that whoever is lustrated should appeal to the Supreme Court of Serbia, and in the composition of the Lustration Commission, there are judges from the Supreme Court, so that this lustration law brings us back 500 years, back to the time when it was -- the cadium sues you, the cadium judges you. Otherwise, I'm the proposer of this law, i.e. The civil union of Serbia wants this law to introduce a political inquisition in the 21st century. I must point out that the Lustration Act is unconstitutional and that it is inadmissible, that it will experience the fate of the Broadcasting Commission and that in a few months we will most likely talk and talk about how we have been wrong, how we should not have done this today, and that we have to sit back and discuss the same subject again, and this is precisely because the executive power in some way, peoples say, is distracting both the citizens of Serbia and the MPs in parliament. We are witnessing daily violations of the law by the executive authority, and in order to allegedly have some rule of law, then the MPs and the citizens are being sent these bills, which have only the intention of turning the issue around and giving cause for citizens to talk about some alleged law, about the Lustration Commission, who is this, why this one, who has accepted, who refused, why foreign citizens are in that commission and so on, so as not to worry about what he is daily tormented by, and this is the great misery and hungry bellies in the Republic of Serbia. How this commission cannot be elected, normally and if chosen by the majority's will with the counterfeiting of parliamentary cards, this law will certainly not be able to apply in the future. What I would still like to say in the end is that yesterday I was greatly irritated by Pajtic's statement, which lists the names of MPs who vote for the bill or who give the quorum, which is cynically, but remains obliged to tell us what is the amount of money he provides to them, those MPs who provide the quorum and who vote in favour of the bills tabled by DOS - Serbia's Reform.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-15-0.u32579	The word is made by MP Dragan Todorovic. No more reported for this agenda item.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-15-0.u32580	Ladies and gentlemen, at the beginning of my presentation, I must say that I was in a dilemma about whether or not I should put forward a concept of my opinion on the proposed candidates for a committee of responsibility for human rights violations in a shorter and more summary form than I normally do. However, due to the fact that you as a parliamentary majority last night have shown exceptional willingness to work in extended periods, it will not be difficult for you to listen to my little more extensive exposure, which will have to include the opinions and attitudes of all my colleagues who, due to your extension of hours to eight o'clock, have remained deprived of the opportunity to express this opinion from this pay phone. So SPS attitudes related to so-called. The law on liability for human rights violations is already well-known. We have in the debate, when adopting this law, pointed out our fundamental views that the provisions of this law are too far-reaching towards establishing moral-political responsibility, that this law cannot be a serious law and that, in accordance with the experiences recorded in the former Eastern European countries and the former Socialist countries, which have passed such laws, we cannot express our satisfaction, nor can we hope that this law will contribute to the establishment of a better atmosphere and the development of democracy in Serbia. On the contrary, such and similar laws, such as this experience from Eastern European countries, have only contributed to deepening differences, deepening intolerance among political entities and parties, and such laws have been used for everything else, except to establish a more stable political atmosphere that will contribute to the development of democracy. In principle, in the debate on the law, we have pointed out that it is impossible and unnecessary to bind human rights violations only to a body of civil and political rights. It is impossible to abandon the violation of economic and social rights, but apparently the parliamentary majority of the DOS, when proposing and adopting this law, has been guided by other principles that are really too much related to the creation of the environment, to ban political activity for those who are on the political sides of their side, and not to adopt, as I have already said, a law that will stabilise the political situation and contribute to a more constructive atmosphere. It is unacceptable for us to absorb economic and social rights from the human rights corpus, but in order not to come into conflict with those who have violated for 10 years, with your co-operation, economic and social rights of citizens of Serbia and Yugoslavia, you have limited the human rights corpus, by your own free will, to civil and political and to the application of the Lustration Act of 1976, when a ratified Pact on Economic, Accurate, Civil and Political Rights was ratified. I'll remind you again, in 1966, the UN General Assembly didn't bring just the Civil and Political Rights Pact, the same year was passed, and the Pact on Economic and Social Rights, but obviously I can't say that you don't know that, you know very well, and there are good lawyers and good experts among you, and among other things, there is the Internet, so you don't have to be great lawyers, so you can see that human rights can't be limited to civil and political. Then, when the Lustration Act was passed, we expressed our suspicion that the very structure of the envisaged Lustration Commission, which is determined to consist of three Supreme Court judges, three prominent lawyers, one deputy of the Republic Public Prosecutor and two members, MPs, who should be graduate lawyers, so I have already indicated to us the possible problems related to the work of the Commission, which should challenge some people to deal with politics or public life, and all this based on moral-political similarities. We said it was extremely discriminatory whether judges of the Supreme Court could oppose the views of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, contrary to the views of the Law on Judges, to perform some other function that is not related to judicial work. The Lustration Commission is not part of the judicial system and the judge, and whether it is the judges of municipal, county, appeals (which you cannot form and who knows when you will and will at all, and you have made your own decision on their constitution), judges of the Supreme Court or of the Constitutional Court, cannot deal with anything else, any other business that is not related to judicial work. It is a principled remark that has led us to believe that this commission will not be valid and will not have good preconditions and predispositions for the sake of it, as far as moral grounds or bases not on the other side are concerned, but on that, politically, for the constitution of such a commission. As cream on cake comes the fact that we could learn from the media, which is, firstly, we were denied the possibility of getting material on the proposed candidates, more precisely, members of the Committee on Responsibility, and only here, in the Republic Parliament, in the building of the Assembly, could we meet, of course, at five to twelve, with the proposed candidates. And to make things worse, the candidates themselves seem to have been unable to find enough time or to enter the Assembly building, so they didn't even know they were proposed for members of the Lustration Commission. Thus, Mrs Vida Petrovic-Skero said that she had only learned from the media that she was proposed to be a member of this commission. Regardless of political differences, regardless of the diversity of political views, regardless of whether one party supports it, the other party does not support it, whether you believe that in one legal state, which wants to enter Europe, in the JJI century, it is possible or necessary to allow that luxury not to be informed by the Supreme Court judge in any way that it is proposed for a candidate of any commission, any, let alone such commissions which is extremely problematic. Milka Marinkovic, from the scene: How do you know? ) I would ask the President of Parliament to make it impossible or to make it impossible for those who are unable to face the facts I am taking from this speaker and to allow me to complete my presentation. Do you think any state that wants to call itself a legal state, a regulated state, a civilised state, can afford that luxury, and as I have already said, that members of the commission are being informed through the media, any commission, especially those that are extremely problematic. Of course, he can't, and of course he shouldn't, but we're witnessing that this happened here in Serbia, and then one of the candidates says, so Mrs. Vida Petrovic-Skero, that he doesn't want to be a member of that commission, which would be said in the people -- he's holding a barrel of water, while the masters leave. Faster, what we're going to do is, as we walk, solve some problems, make deals, deal, who knows what doesn't, who knows who's going to be proposed, because I really don't know what the final list of these candidates for a committee of responsibility for human rights violations will look like. There are still some of the proposed candidates reporting, so we're coming up with a number of three proposed candidates who don't want to lustrate. It's about problems that arise, and they're about personal solutions in these candidates. The summer review of the biography you have submitted in this material can lead to a very interesting data, which is that some of the members who are proposed to join this committee and how they can be struck by the Law itself on the examination of liability for human rights violations. When you look at that, let's say, someone was at the University of Belgrade Law Faculty with the published book "The Assembly Elections since 1942-1982 in Yugoslavia", you will agree that, in our view and opinion, the Socialists have been denied the right, the human right of citizens to multi-party elections. We have here that Professor Mijat Damjanovic published the book "The Assembly Elections in Yugoslavia since 1942-1982" and this book was published in 1984. To my astonishment, we had the opportunity to get acquainted with the fact that a former judge of the District Court in Subotica Tamash Korhec was also proposed with dual citizenship. Indeed, in no country, anywhere in Europe or in any commission that judges and decides on human fates, there is no possibility of a foreign citizen. That's another reason why we doubt the validity of the proposed candidates. Then, when the problem gets a little deeper, we have to ask ourselves how these people who are practically, by the will of the DOS of the majority elected for this commission will work when there are a lot of problems that are unresolved in the law itself. Starting with the fact that all members of the State Security Service are dealing with practically restricting human rights, indulging in people's privacy, whether all members of the former State Security Service, the current BIA, which today has that function, will be lustrated or disabling to deal with public life. It is very difficult whether the law, which has been able to ratify the International Civil and Political Rights Pact since 1976 as a starting point or a starting time, will be given as a deadline since the Lustration Act is applied. You will agree that the issue is about retroactiveness that is forbidden by the Constitution. And then, along with all the reserves to the so-called. NGOs, because it's a wave of organizations financed from government budgets, unfortunately less from the republican budget and more from foreign governments' budgets, therefore, with all the reserves I have according to such so-called. NGOs, the Fund's initiative for the Development of Democracy is also coming, which has launched an assessment of the constitutionality of the law and of the ban on the work of the Lustration Commission. To mention the Fund before the Constitutional Court, although it is a highly disputable entity that launched the initiative, but the facts are facts, it is rightly called on to prohibit the establishment of a Lustration Commission and ask that, until the end of this assessment of constitutionality, the work of the Commission is absolutely not allowed, referring to constitutional provisions, there are laws with feedback that are unconstitutional. So, in addition to disagreeing with the fact that the promoter, which is not related to the very assessment of constitutionality, we have to realize that it is a fundamental legal principle that laws cannot be passed that will act backwards. There's no legal certainty, there's no rule of law, and that way we're not going to Europe anytime soon. Also, the mentioned Law on Liability for Human Rights Infringements has been linked to active application since 23 March 1976, so, when the Civil and Human Rights Pact was radicalized. It is warned that the application of the Lustration Act would open the possibility of deciding on human fates in an illegal and unconstitutional manner and leading to drastic consequences. It is then pointed out in the explanation of their request and the additional reason for pointing out legal uncertainty, which is that members of the commission cannot propose anyone, and especially a person who has a conflict of interest, in particular the President of the Republic of Parliament and acting as acting as such, Mrs Natasa Micic. So in one person three functions have been incorporated, the MP, the President of Parliament and V.D. President of the Republic, which in the end cannot be a good basis for proposing this commission. Since I see you're nervous, and last night you weren't nervous when you were making a decision to work until 20.00 hours, I really have to express the surprise that you're so anxious to finish your exposure, and I don't know why you're in such a hurry, you probably care about choosing board members and, as a matter of fact, the sweetest thing to do is always to end. Depending on how this commission you're going to establish to work, we have to say that our fears can come true, and to God, if you act objectively, impartially, and apply the provisions of the Lustration Act consistently in practice, you might also deny us. Unfortunately, a colleague's gone, maybe he won't hear what's best. Depending on whether you are engaged in a change of political opponents under these laws or whether you have consideration for those in your ranks today, who have been in a situation to violate human rights, depends on whether you have the credibility to continue working. In order to justify my claims or to give you some way, let's say, you can prove that you are objective, impartial, that you do not apply the provisions of the law in accordance with the political needs, but rather stick to the rights, you want to create a legal state, my little bit has been given the information that among the members, more specifically the DS MPs here today, were with us and that the responsible members of the Alliance of Communists and as such were in some of the leadership functions within the limits of the political organisation in which they joined at some 18, 20 years. So, if you want to face facts, look at the truth in your eyes, say that you were members of the Communist Union, that you were in violation of human rights as well. In order for the story not to be empty, I will read before this Parliament a questionnaire for members of the Alliance of Communists of Yugoslavia, I have only data relating to the locality, and perhaps you will have some more concrete data from your environments, which states that Mr Panajotović Gradimira Tomislav, born in 12.10.1939, was a member of the Union of Communists of Yugoslavia on 16 January 1958, completed Law School, a graduate lawyer, a journalist. This is a 1984 questionnaire. "If the goat is lying, the horn is not lying," so if you want to pass lustration laws, prove that you are objective and impartial and in a specific case.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-15-0.u32581	Since there are no more entries on the lists, I ask if they want to take part in the debate of the president of the parliamentary groups? The speech is attended by MP Zarko Obradovic, president of the SPS parliamentary group, and then by MP Zoran Krasic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-15-0.u32582	Dear Presidency, fellow Members of the People's Parliament, I must say the truth for the sake of the MPial club of the SPS in this National Assembly has been called by the President of the National Assembly to propose his candidate to be a member of this committee for determining responsibility for human rights violations. We, quite logically, rejected this offer, considered it politically incorrect, for the simple reason that the SPS voted against this law, therefore it is not for the establishment of a commission. We believe that this is a couple of excellencies on political law and the Commission will work in accordance with the content of this law, the essence of which is that political opponents are eliminated, that under the form of determining responsibility for human rights violations are actually executed by political opponents, of course, our Socialists from Serbia's political life. We refused to be on this committee because we believe that the Law was also passed without constitutional basis, that the Charter of Human and Minority Rights and Civil Liberties is opposite also in the Constitutional Charter of the State Community of Serbia-Montenegro, that it is contrary to the provisions of Criminal Law. We also refused to be on this committee for the reason that the law forms a commission, a body that was not in our country's legal system, or the legal system as such knows it. We were against participation and because the pre-law introduces the presumption of guilt, not the presumption of innocence, and because the law has a retroactive character, and clearly a selective approach. It doesn't matter to the commission at all to determine the responsibility of all the people who allegedly violated human rights. The point is to determine the responsibility of those who should be candidates for public functions. That, in itself, speaks enough of the character of this law. We have said it before, I must repeat it, it is also seen from the explanation of the proposal for this law, where it is taxed that this law has also been applied in certain countries of Eastern Europe as a measure of preventing certain people from participating in political life. We are also opposed to the fact that the subject matter of the Commission's work, i.e. the documentation should also be certain documents of national security, and also here at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, when we discussed the draft law on lustration and on the parent board, we heard from more people that these documents were essential, the term "polluting" was used, i.e. that they have been changed, supplemented and that the contents are not what they may have been before 5 October and so on. So we refused to participate in this story because we felt that the only court and court could determine the responsibility of any citizen of the Republic of Serbia and that it should be the same for everyone. Since this law will be applied as a retaliatory measure towards political opponents, it will also be interesting to see how it will apply to DOS leaders, since many of them, who have now been in this assembly or in state and party functions, as local officials since 1992, have continued to exercise local self-government, and many people have then been scyphoning, etc. We refused to be members of this committee because we believe that the work of this commission will be directly contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, especially to those members of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, I mean members 11, 13 and 23, who regulate the rights and freedoms of man and citizen. In fact, the commission will do the opposite of the Constitution directly, because the mentioned members are working the case, they say, "No one can be found guilty of the crime until it is established by the court's judicial decision." By a court decision, not by some commission of nine members, as we are suggested. We also believe that the Commission's work will be directly opposed to the provisions of the Charter of Human and Minority Rights, which speak of fundamental rights and freedoms of man and citizen. One of these members says: "Every one has the right to decide on his rights and obligations, as well as on charges against him, without delay on an independent, impartial and legally established court. Court decisions are made publicly, and court proceedings are public." I mention this because the court and the court alone can determine the responsibility of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia or at least should do so. We refused to be on this committee because the commission represents a body that will be tasked with preventing people from performing their public functions. It's her primary assignment. It is incomprehensible that the commission will, with its insight into the State Security documentation, decide on the fate of the people. So, within a certain time, the commission will take a look at the files and then decide on the fate of these people, without a court. After all, it would be fairest if there were no more criminal responsibility, but, they say, there is a kind of moral responsibility, to leave it to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia to hold elections, which will come sooner or later, to decide whether or not someone can participate in political life and to decide what function they will perform. I said before, and I must repeat once again, the particular problem of this commission's work and what will objectively do to make this commission a farce is the fact that these documents have been changed, some have been destroyed. That's what we've had the opportunity to hear for the past two and a half years many things in public information means from people who have worked in national security services or have been the subject of public security. After all, people who understand the work of the State Security Service also say that obtaining this information is also a drastic example of human rights violations. Now a logical question is raised - if information is obtained based on human rights violations, how can such information determine the responsibility of people for human rights violations? We are deeply convinced that the subject of this commission's work will be members of the SPS, their sympathisers, the people who stood out as socialists or their adherents and that we will be the object of lustration. We don't believe any of the DOS members will be the object of lustration. If that's the case, then it'll have to start with the head. I mentioned, a month or two ago, the decision of the Supreme Court of Serbia, which annulled the government of the Republic of Serbia's decision to introduce a forced administration in Priboj, and this is in itself an example of human rights violations. And if this commission wants to be consequent, if it really cares about rights, justice and justice, then first the members of the government will be lustrated and they will be prevented from participating as candidates in public life. When it comes to this commission, based on what we heard yesterday and today, and here in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and also through the media, we come to a very simple conclusion that this proposal is written in haste, that it is not well prepared, as one of the colleagues said, that it is messy, that it is not legally arranged. I have to say, it's paradoxical, but it's true, it obviously wasn't taken care of, because in the meantime, we had a situation where District Court Judge Vida Petrovic-Skero canceled participation in this commission. I have to say, as far as our Socialists are concerned, she just made our job easier, because we thought she was as a person unfit to be on that committee, for the simple reason that, while she was president of the District Court, she failed to apply the provisions of the Criminal Code in the event of the kidnapping of Slobodan Milosevic from Central Prison. He was then under a special regime and Vida Petrovic-Škero, as head of the District Court, had an obligation to enforce the law, and in Article 321. The law on the execution of criminal sanctions is prescribed that the detainee is released from prison on the basis of a resolution on the suspension of detention and a warrant for release from detention brought by the court. So, at that time, we, as a parliamentary group, considered, and we consider it now, and there will come a time when we will materialise, that she, as the president of the Belgrade District Court, was directly responsible for failing to monitor the application of the detention measure to Slobodan Milosevic, then the prisoner of Central Prison. I must say that other resignations, which in the meantime, showed that this proposal came in a hurry and was not founded. Our socialists don't seem to be surprised, because we think that the promoter himself in this case is someone who violated human rights, and there's a paradoxicality right there. We have the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, who is V.D. Serbia's president, who violated human rights the most, and he proposes to the commission to determine responsibility for human rights violations. When I say V.D. The president of Serbia, acting as president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I think very clearly of the Order to introduce the state of emergency and to a member of the order saying that the Ministry of Interior can forcely bring and retain a person in the official premises for 30 days. As you know, the 30-day detention measure is deeply contrary to the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 16, where it is said there must be a decision by the competent court to have someone detained and detained in custody. As you know, we had one law, which contained similar provisions on the introduction of a 30-day detention measure, without a court ruling. On June 5th, the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia declared the provisions unconstitutional. It is quite logical, if these provisions are unconstitutional, that parts of the Emergency Introduction Order were also unconstitutional, and that during the duration of the emergency, about 3,000 people were detained and held in custody. At that time, the government boasted, but for God's sake, it's gonna hurt someone, because it's an eclectic example of human rights violations. Now we come to this paradoxality that v.d. Serbia's president, who has proposed members of this commission to determine responsibility for human rights violations, is someone who has directly violated those rights. There's something else. If it is indeed wanted to establish the relevant composition of the commission, then the criteria for who are the greatest human rights fighters in this country and who are the most prominent in determining the responsibility of human rights violations should be set. If that is the case, which should be the case, then the first person and president of this commission should be Natasa Kandic, because she also received international recognition that she is a human rights fighter. There, of course, should not miss Biljana Kovacevic - Vuco, neither should Sonja Biserko, Sonja Licht is there. It's about people who have proven to be great human rights fighters, especially those who are impartial. It is certain that they are not members of any political party. What they did for the needs of certain governments of Western countries, and in their interest, is a different story and, of course, in co-operation with the DOS, but it is true that they are not members of the political party and that they are impartial. It's their highest standard of being on this committee. I must say that we are concerned that among the members of this commission mention also Professor Vesna Rakic-Vodinlic. One Vodalić-Rakic in the Broadcasting Council, the other is on the commission to determine responsibility for human rights violations. Here's an example of nepotism present here on this committee. We think, in any case, this proposal is not good. We don't think this commission will determine the responsibility of all people who have violated human rights. This is one big political marketing, it's just not gonna do anything. If so, it should have been done after October 5th, we are deeply against it, but if we already wanted to apply practice and some other countries, there was also opportunity, both time and opportunity. We don't think it's a good thing. I must say, I do not know this DOS candidate, who has been proposed to be a member of the commission, one or two, if they have voted in favour of those provisions of the State's measure and action to combat organised crime, and these provisions, after the Constitutional Court, have declared unconstitutional and not in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, there is a judicial example of human rights violations and therefore the incompatibility of those people who have been proposed. So, the apparition has a brightness. Some have also withdrawn from this commission for various reasons, but it is essential that this commission has a political task to establish, without a court, without relevant documentation, the responsibility of political opponents, to prevent and eliminate them from political life, without elections, without citizens. We have not agreed to such an option, we have not accepted to be members of this committee and, of course, we will not vote for this commission.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-15-0.u32583	The People's Messenger Zoran Krasic has the word, and then the People's Messenger Natasa Milojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-15-0.u32584	We are at the end of the debate and we can conclude that no proposal has been withdrawn yet, although all the reasons have been fulfilled that this proposal is not on the agenda. Since such a situation is, then let us conclude and give one final presentation of what the Serbian Radical Party considers about this proposal for a decision to elect members of the Lustration Commission. The general conclusion is that someone has concluded that the commission should be formed right now, so as not to miss a deadline set by law and that the members of that commission should be checked for revolutionary justice, for a bulldozer, a five-octobaric truth, for people who will endure and eliminate political competition. Not even political opponents, but political inexperiences. We also tried to convince you that, by entering the procedure, the promoter proved that he was not suitable for a multiparty system. He's not ready to accept a different opinion, he's ready to follow only his own ideology. On that path, it destroys everything, moves not only to haunt but to try to eliminate, that there is no such thing as a distraction. Of course, the promoters and those who voted in favour of such a law, boast that in the names of their parties they have the word "democratic", count it as the only evidence of commitment to democracy and thus practically impose a new Dosmanian standard on us. It's a general finding of almost all discussions. What else can we conclude? We can conclude that Vida Petrovic-Skero wants to work a little bit on her conscience, apparently what happened when she was the head of the district court, and you probably remember that after that kidnapping event she even went out on the street with employees in court and administration, protesting and demanding an increase in their salaries. She realized that a man shouldn't play with these things lightly, because his conscience always works, sometimes late, but always works. What else can we conclude? We can conclude that we have a repeat act of clan behavior, during this epochal operation "Sabbe" we have been informed that members of some clans had their judges, their prosecutors, and were practically in a position to decide who would judge them. At least that's how they let us know. It's similar with this proposal. The promoter now practically decides who's going to judge him. Between the Dossmanian clan and this Zemun clan, at least on this case, there's almost no difference, there's no principle difference. Lustration is something dangerous and something that belongs to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, they do it every time after four years, when they wonder who will represent and who will represent their will in this assembly. Is it possible that the National Assembly and MPs who exercise sovereignty on behalf of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia are in a situation that someone who is not a court is in control of whether someone has ever violated imaginary human rights? The National Assembly does not have the authority of citizens to make political elimination possible, to remove from political life. Believe me, all those who voted in favour of the law and who voted and participated in this farsi, because we don't have 18 proposed candidates, we already have 14 or 15, almost none of them have been consulted or given consent, but has learned from the newspapers that someone has proposed it, and that someone who proposed it has not consulted with the parliamentary groups. That's not what this law predicts, though unconstitutional. The Constitutional Court would finally have to come forward, and Slobodan Vučetic, as we heard from Minister Djelic last night, must protect his constitution. He wrote a man's constitution, I hope he won't let his constitution be trampled out, as soon as it arrives. What else can we conclude? The reasons for the resolution of these people are the same ones that apply to judges, but now we have a situation that two MPs, which are proposed from the DOS electoral list, are legally impossible to propose within the meaning of this law, do not meet the conditions of being judges. How can someone perform a paradic duty and not meet the conditions of being a judge? Nor was he elected in a procedure that applies to the choice of judges. Not to go any further, that there is also the incompatibility of the functions of the Supreme Court judge with the performance of some other functions, so one of these is this, too, to be a member of the Lustration Commission. We'll probably split up here again -- who's in favour and who's against it, but I'm absolutely sure that when everyone leaves this room, they won't know why they voted, because this lustration law goes on for the next ten years. All beatings need to be handled with caution, because beatings have two ends. No one who comes after the dosmania to power has the right for at least a year to change your laws, but has the obligation to enforce them exactly as they are written. That's what we learned. The laws are passed in order to be applied and applied. Be assured that many members of the Lustration Commission will leave the commission in the meantime because they do not want to participate in this farce and do not want to be recorded in history as a man who destroyed Serbian parliamentism. We will certainly enter it in the history of Serbian radicalism, we are making updated editions, we want to preserve parliamentaryism in Serbia and all those who violate parliamentaryism and political life will be found in that book. In the beginning, know that all members of the Lustration Commission already have their chapter. We will explore everything, and whoever suggested them, and why he proposed them, and how someone became an expert in April 2003 and how this proposal came to pass, and believe me, this proposal could have been made by, say, Ms. Vodnelic, the president of the National Assembly could have proposed to both the Cavoško and Ratko Markovic and the lawyer Phil, these are still exceptional legal experts, and not to ask them, to treat here that the proposal is neat, so that they can vote pro-form, in order to elect those who have to choose. Be assured, in September of the month, after 9/11, the DOS-Reform parliamentary group from this pay phone will criticise the National Assembly president for violating the procedure, as the procedure for selecting members of the Radiodifuse Council has been violated. Take care, whoever destroys parliamentaryism bears great responsibility and do not carry out the lustration procedure against people just because they have opposed NATO, the Shiptar terrorists, mujahedins and those who have expelled both your relatives and your friends. Whoever taught you to do this taught you wrong. Denacification in Germany 1945 and what you are trying to do in Serbia in 2003 is not the same. Think about it, find that difference to preserve your conscience.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-15-0.u32585	The word has a national MP, Natasa Milojevic, president of the Social Democratic Party parliamentary group, and MP Petar Petrovic, deputy president of the Serbian Unity Party's parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-15-0.u32586	The respected presidency, dear colleagues and colleagues, in the debate on the draft composition of the Committee on the Protection of Human Rights was an opportunity to say a lot, so I would not comment on it, in particular not to challenge the replicas of my colleagues who have apostrophe of many past topics, and especially when this Parliament has been working in full composition. I can't help but pull the parallel with the second procedure we discussed at this extraordinary session, which is the procedure in implementing the Law on Broadcasting and Election Procedures of the Broadcasting Council. I am afraid that there will also be a commission election in this case under the Law on the Protection of Human Rights. That lack simply must not be allowed anymore. Why can't he? Because good solutions and really good proposals contained in the first eight or a dozen names, the proposals of Ms. Natasa Micic, can be absolutely devalued by the fact that the proposals concerning opposition representatives in this commission are absolutely unacceptable, an absolutely unacceptable bar for us Members of the Social Democratic Party, which, in the event of a vote, did not support the Law on the Protection of Human Rights, with an explanation that some members of the law, or its individual solutions, are absolutely inadmissible. Here, in this case it's confirmed. Namely, the legislator and the draft body of the commission in accordance with the law, the President of the Assembly, acting primarily on the basic principle and the criteria for being a person with credibility in the sphere of human rights, is right to use this term, first fighters in this area, but there is no argument when it comes to proposals from members of those opposition parties for whom the concept of human rights was and remains only a subject of mockery, only subject to more or less unspeakable remarks. It is unacceptable for us Social Democrats to have any representative of the Party of Sports, Pardon, Serbian Unity on the Lustration Commission. It is unacceptable for us Social Democrats to have any representative of the Socialist Party in the commission. Their chief representative is located where he is and the chief offender of human rights in this country. If this remains a proposal and is not withdrawn, the Social Democrats in this assembly cannot vote on such a proposal in general. Not because they are against the Law on the Protection of Human Rights, not because they are against lustration, but because such a proposal is in line with one true story that happened after the October Revolution. Someone mentioned it, so let me just say it. When one prince, escaped from then-Soviet Russia, asked - how did you lose, how did the red win in Russia, the prince said it all over the glass - we slyly defended the Winter Castle. Let us no longer do any of the sloppy things in defending the legal proposals that this congregation brings.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-15-0.u32587	Right on line, MP Petar Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-15-0.u32588	I'm surprised that we're mentioned here by representatives of a party that didn't exist until two years ago, they were in another party, but after some things were brought before this Parliament and before us MPs, where we were in a situation where we heard stockings were torn, fingers pushed into our mouths and things like that, and then there was the formation of a new party, stolen parties from an existing party, and now they don't agree that someone from the Party of Serbian Unity should be on the lustration committee. For well-informed and for those who are constantly in this assembly, the Serbian Unity Party has made it clear that it will not have a representative and that it does not want to have a representative in the Lustration Commission and I think that's the end of the matter. You ladies and gentlemen, who criticise the Serbian Unity Party, where you appear you have available media everywhere, read little reports from the additional local elections in various municipalities of Serbia, where your candidates get a huge number of votes, which is like the letter "o" - zero. So much is your rating in Serbia's electoral body and so much should be your right to criticise someone. If you want to criticize, you show up at the Serbian elections on your own the next day. Don't trip along with the big parties, show your political power, your political knowledge, your political strength, and then you'll get the moral and every other right to call other parties, including the Serbian Unity Party. Looks like your Serbian Unity Party is a nightmare. Wake up already.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-15-0.u32589	Right on line, MP Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-15-0.u32590	I must tell Mrs. Milosevic that the president of the Socialist Party of Serbia, Mr. Slobodan Milosevic, is in The Hague thanks to the DOS decision, which you have nominated and signed, because you kidnapped him from prison. The time will come and you will be ashamed of this procedure, because if you were allowed to, you would arrange an alleged trial here in the country. Another thing, how you had to talk about law, law and so on, when you steal a party to a man, when you don't respect the court's decision. How do you have to give lectures to others? As you passed the election, he mentioned a colleague and I hear he's zero in Pirot. DOS representative - this party - zero. Do not lecture us here, but go out and tell the citizens of Serbia, and then draw the line and win the election. When you get that legitimacy, then hold the lectures here. You can't become a party thanks to the fact that you have one medium and that you have a financier behind you. You can't.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-15-0.u32591	The word has been issued by MP Petar Petrovic, the second announcement as deputy president of the Soviet Parliament group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-15-0.u32592	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, once again from this speaker, I must repeat the position of the Party of Serbian Unity, or the MPs' Club of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, that the Assembly Club of the SSJ does not want and will not give a candidate for a member of the Committee for the Determination of Human Rights or the Lustration Commission, because we believe that what we talked about when it was on the agenda this bill is still standing today, that this law does not aim to improve something in the Republic of Serbia, but that with political non-performents or political opponents, the account is being held in the way that the motion has been put forward. On the other hand, it is not clear to us from the Assembly Club of the Soviet Union that, when proposing candidates for this commission, we can violate the basic democratic right for us, which is to demand the consent of each candidate individually to simply agree to be a candidate for a member of the commission. No one can force themselves to be a candidate for anything, even a member of the commission. What would that mean if whoever was on the list and didn't give consent, God forbid, at least when it comes to the Soviets, was elected and would have to resign as a new act the next day. Does that mean that this commission could say, we're not accepting resignation, you just have to be a member of the commission. Where, ladies and gentlemen, there is democracy in Europe. We think it's moved forward with this commission proposal for one reason or another. I don't want to discuss it here right now and explain it. It could have waited for a more favorable moment to begin collecting and preparing candidates. The Law on Liability for Human Rights Infringement, too, as you know, was brought forward hastily, very quickly, proposed by one party, supported by other DOS parties, and that is their right to support the law. If they've already adopted it, let them form their own committee, let them lustrate those they think should be lustrated. As far as the Soviet Union is concerned, we don't want to, and we don't want to take part in it. Once again, it would be illusory to have an SS candidate on the ballot and to have someone vote eventually without simply wanting and not giving consent. So please, when it is decided that the candidate of the Soviet Union is not on the list, and at the same time, I declare that MPs from the Assembly Club will not take part in the vote for a commission to determine human rights violations.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-15-0.u32593	Thank you. Are any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, applying for a word? Yeah. ) Second announcement, National MP Natasa Milojevic, president of the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-15-0.u32594	Members of the Social Democratic Party, when we discussed the Law on the Protection of Human Rights, presented several arguments as to why this law should be carefully or more carefully approached. This discussion, particularly direct discussions, confirmed that we were right. What is very important to emphasise is that protecting human rights is something that should have been done, if not so far, and from now on must be the primary goal of the democratic forces in this country, not just in this assembly. Not only is it a basic goal, but it's a mission or what Mrs. Micic said, a 21st-century policy. If that doesn't happen, and it won't happen by applying this law, because there are shortcomings, it has to be fixed, so that we will never again be in a situation where those who were the main offenders of human rights, the citizens of this country and the citizens of the previous state are now solemnly declaring that they will not participate in the Commission for the Protection of Human Rights, because they have decided so. No, we don't want them on those commissions, because that's what we decided.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-15-0.u32595	National MP Zoran Cirkovic, president of the New Serbia parliamentary group, spoke.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-15-0.u32596	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Lustration Act should look like similar laws passed in the countries of real socialism and communism, in good time, when it fell in the late 1980s and early 1990s. When it comes to Serbia, he is in a tragic delay, but it seems to me that he, as he is conceived and imagined, will not even fulfill his purpose and essential purpose. I will not talk about formal objections to its implementation and to this committee, I will not point out that some of the proposed members of the commission have withdrawn their candidacy for not being notified or simply considered to be in a bad society. I will not highlight the deadlines that are too late, but the fundamental question remains, the Lustration Act should mark a break with times of communism, but unfortunately, this authority is in continuance with that communist period before the eighth session. This is a silent calculation of communists with communists. We, who are victims of human rights violations, do not feel that we should participate. We really don't know who's going to lute who here. For example, the whole law does not mention that there is a responsibility of the Communist Party. The Communist Party, in its essence, is a criminal organization, of course. That doesn't mean all her members are criminals. No, far from it. This lustration law simply doesn't ask that question. You're talking about some exclusive human rights and, roughly, you're just saying that they've been violated since 1976, as the law points out, and especially since 1990, as I feel, you're going to apply it. Human rights violations have existed before, and we know who the sun's prisoners are. In order for this law to make sense, an act of lustration would have to be carried out first. I'm really wondering, you're referring to the files that the Department of State Security led on certain inadequate individuals, of course from the point of view of the government, and now the Constitutional Court has challenged the regulation that the file holders could have made an insight into the content. True, that content is well-prepared. The names of the informants, the names of the associates are covered, the names of the people who violated human rights have been preserved. We learn that these files are now owned by the MUP, and Mr Dinkic points out that the police minister has half the government in his hands with these files. Now I'm really wondering how this lustration law will be applied, which is the category of the population. It's not a violation of human rights that we don't know anything about. The violation of human rights is real, tangible, and the trail remains. I wonder, indeed, if the people who had these files were prevented from reading them, and you're giving the commission the discretionary right to open that file and use it, so what about the victims, what about those who are affected by the repressive measures that the previous government has continued to apply. For this reason, the New Serbia parliamentary group will not support the decision to elect members of the Lustration Commission, because this law and this commission will not achieve the goal we believed would be achieved after the five-October changes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-15-0.u32597	Does anyone else sign up for a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed a single search on the proposal for the selection of members of the committee for the examination of responsibilities for human rights violations, allow me to give the final word and in accordance with Article 138. Rules of Procedure. The shortest final word possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-15-0.u32598	The word is proposed by the act, the People's Parliament and the President of the National Assembly, Natasa Micic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-15-0.u32599	Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, I would like to thank everyone who participated in the debate. I believe, however, that the objections you made to the commission's composition, and I have suggested, are not serious, except for more serious remarks that opposition MPs should have joined the commission, and they have, however, given up. I respected my legal obligation to propose MPs from different electoral lists. They gave up afterwards and we won't vote on them. I believe that the proposal for the selection of members of the committee to examine the responsibility for human rights violations is good and that you will, of course, choose the best among them today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-15-0.u32600	I'm concluding a unique search.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-15-0.u32601	I'm closing a single search and we'll approach the vote. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: - PROPOSALS FOR THE DISCUSSION OF THE MEMBER STATE OF THE REPUBLIC AGENCY Before we move on to the decision, I remind you that Article 29(4) is an article of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Law on Broadcasting provides that a decision on the resolution of a member of the Council is to be considered adopted if it has been voted by most of the total number of MPs. Since the National Assembly has conducted a unique search of the motions for decisions, we move on to a decision. 1. I am putting to the vote the motion for a decision on the resolution of Nenad Cekic's membership in the Council of the Republic Broadcasting Agency. For 53, against 103 abstentions 16, they did not vote 24, out of the 196 MPs present. Since 53 MPs voted in favour of the motion for a decision, representing less than half of the total number, I find that the National Assembly has not adopted a proposal for a decision to resolve Nenad Cekic's membership in the Council of the Republic Broadcasting Agency. 2. I am putting to the vote the motion for a decision on the discharge of Professor Vladimir Cvetkovic's membership in the Council of the Republic Broadcasting Agency. For 53, against 106, with 17 abstentions, he did not vote 21 out of 197 MPs. Since 53 MPs voted for the motion for a decision, representing less than half of the total number, I find that the National Assembly has not adopted a proposal for a decision to resolve Dr Vladimir Cvetkovic's membership in the Council of the Republic Broadcasting Age. 3. I put to the vote the motion for a decision on the resolution of Goran Radenovic's membership in the Council of the Republic Broadcasting Agency. For 73, against 98, abstentioned 11, did not vote 15, of 197. Having voted for the motion for a decision by 73 MPs, representing less than half of the total number, I find that the National Assembly has not adopted a proposal for a decision to resolve Goran Radenovic's membership in the Council of the Republic Broadcasting Age. We move to item 2 of the agenda: – Proposal for the selection of members of the Committee for the Examining of Responsibility for Infringement of Human Rights Since the National Assembly has carried out a single search on a proposal for the selection of members of the Committee for the Study of Liability for Human Rights, and before the transfer to the vote, I remind you that, according to Article 23. The law on liability for human rights violations, members of the commission are elected by secret vote. I suggest that the secret vote on candidates be held using an electronic voting system. I am putting the motion on the motion to hold a secret vote on candidates for the selection of members of the committee for the examination of liability for human rights violations through the use of an electronic voting system. For 111, they did not vote 47 out of 158 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a proposal to carry out a secret vote using the electronic system. Before moving to the vote, let me remind you that using an electronic voting system in the secret voting regime cannot reconstruct how any MP voted. I note that, in accordance with Article 23, paragraphs 4 and 5. The law on liability for human rights violations, as a member of the commission, selected a candidate who received most of the votes of the members of parliament present. If more candidates get equal votes, the vote is, of course, repeated. If most of the votes in the previous position are not reached in the re-vote, candidates who received the highest number of votes within their group were elected for members of the commission. We move to a secret vote using an electronic voting system. First we will vote on candidates from the Serbian Supreme Court. I am voting on the proposal to elect Vida Petrovic-Skero to be the member of the committee for examining the responsibility for human rights violations under the order of the Serbian Supreme Court. For eight, against 49, abstention 21, did not vote 23, out of 121 MPs. I suggest we determine if we have a quorum to decide on. I ask the MPs to insert identification cards into their MPs. Because the secret vote just turns yellow. I realize we don't have the quorum to decide and I'm postponing the vote for 15.00 hours. [[After break - 17.30]] Dear ladies and gentlemen, please insert identification cards into your MPs to determine the quorum. I'm guessing we have a quorum. First we will vote on candidates from the Serbian Supreme Court. 1. I am voting on the proposal to elect Vida Petrovic Škero as a member of the Commission for the Study of Liability for Human Rights Infringement in the Order of the Supreme Court of Serbia. For 13, against 68, abstention 21, 25 of the 127 MPs did not vote. The vote is classified and the signalling is yellow. So there's no green or red, so that doesn't confuse you. 2. I am voting on the proposal to elect Sonja Manojlovic as a member of the Commission for the Study of Liability for Human Rights Infringement of the Order of Serbian Supreme Court Judges. For 97, against four, a abstentioned one, did not vote 25, out of 127 MPs. 3. I am voting on the proposal to elect Jelena Borovac as a member of the Commission for the Study of Liability for Human Rights Infringement in the Order of the Supreme Court of Serbia. For one, against 94, with seven abstentions, 25 of the 127 MPs did not vote. 4. I am voting on a proposal to elect Vera Pesic as a member of the Commission for the Study of Liability for Human Rights Infringement in the Order of Serbian Supreme Court Judges. For 96, against one, a abstentioned one, did not vote 28 out of 126 MPs. 5. I am voting on a proposal to elect Vladimir Tamas as a member of the Commission for the Study of Liability for Human Rights Infringement under the Order of the Supreme Court of Serbia. For 98, against three, a abstentioned one, did not vote 25 out of 127 MPs. Six. I am voting on a proposal to elect Miroslav Letic as a member of the Commission for the Study of Liability for Human Rights Infringement of the Order of Serbian Supreme Court Judges. For three, against 100, with four abstentions, he did not vote 21 out of 128 MPs. As a result of the vote, I find that for the members of the Commission to investigate the responsibility for human rights violations, the following candidates were elected from the order of judges of the Supreme Court of Serbia: Mrs Sonja Manojlovic with 97 votes, Mrs Vera Pesic with 96 and Mr Vladimir Tamas with 98 votes. We will now vote on candidates from the ranks of prominent legal experts. 1. I am voting on the proposal to elect Prof. Dr. Vesna Rakic-Vodinlic as a member of the Commission for the examination of responsibilities for human rights violations in the order of prominent legal experts. For 106, against four, a abstentioned one, did not vote 18, of 129 MPs. 2. I am voting on the proposal to elect Professor Mijat Damjanovic as a member of the Commission for the Study of Liability for Human Rights Infringement in the order of prominent legal experts. For 11, against 91, with four abstentions, did not vote 23, out of 129 MPs. 3. I am voting on the proposal to elect Professor Dr. Dobrosav M. Mitrovica as a member of the Commission for the examination of responsibilities for human rights violations in the order of prominent legal experts. For 96, against three, with five abstentions, did not vote 24, out of 128 MPs. 4. I am voting on the proposal to elect Dr Tamas Korhec as a member of the Commission for the Study of Liability for Human Rights Infringement in the order of prominent legal experts. For 86, against 17, the abstention of three, was not voted 22, of 128 MPs. 5. I am voting on the proposal to elect Vlasimir Jankovic as a member of the Commission for the Study of Liability for Human Rights Infringement in the order of prominent legal experts. For 13, against 93, with three abstentions, it did not vote 19, out of 128 MPs. Six. I am voting on the proposal to elect Mr Mirjana Jovanovic-Tomic as a member of the Commission to investigate the responsibility for human rights violations in the order of prominent legal experts. For six, against 94, with four abstentions, did not vote 23, out of 127 MPs. I find that for the members of the Commission for the Study of Liability for Human Rights Infringement, in the order of prominent legal experts, Mrs Vesna Rakić-Vodinlic, Mr Dobrosav Mitrovica and Mr Tamas Korec were elected. Now we're going to vote on candidates from the Republic Public Prosecutor's office. I remind you that they are candidates: 1. Bogdan Stankovic 2. Maja Stefanovic. 1. I am voting on the proposal to elect Bogdan Stankovic as a member of the Commission for the examination of responsibilities for human rights violations in the order of the Deputy Prosecutor of the Republic of Public Prosecutor. For 97, against five, with four abstentions, he did not vote 21 out of 127 MPs. 2.I am putting to the vote the proposal to elect Maja SteFanovic as a member of the Commission for the examination of responsibilities for human rights violations in the order of the Deputy Prosecutor of the Republic of Public Prosecutor. For three, against 89, with nine abstentions, 27 of the 128 MPs did not vote. I find that Mr Bogdan Stankovic, deputy of the Republic Public Prosecutor, has been elected as a member of the Commission. We will now vote on candidates from the order of MPs who are graduate lawyers. I remind you that members of the Commission must be MPs from different electoral lists. Serbia's election list of the Democratic opposition is as follows: 1. Sima Radulovic, from the DOS parliamentary group - Serbia's Reform, 2. Srdjan Sikimic, from the DOS parliamentary group - Democratic Alternative. 1. I am voting on the proposal to elect Sima Radulovic as a member of the Commission for the Study of Liability for the violation of human rights under the order of MPs who have graduated lawyers. For 101, against six, two abstentions, 17 did not vote, a total of 126 MPs. 1. I am voting on the proposal to elect Srdjan Sikimic as a member of the Commission for the Study of Responsibility for the violation of human rights under the order of MPs who have graduated lawyers. For 19, against 63 abstentions, 17 did not vote 28, a total of 127 MPs. I find that out of the ranks of MPs from the DOS parliamentary list - Serbia's Reform, MP Sima Radulovic was elected. I remind you that the proposed candidates from the ethnic MPs of opposition MPs, the Socialist People's Party MP Zoran D. Nikolic and the parliamentary group of the Serb Unity MP Petar Petrovic have informed them not to accept being candidates for members of the Commission. Since we have held a vote on candidates, allow me to congratulate the candidates on your behalf and on your behalf. After considering all the points of the agenda, I conclude the session of the 11th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2003. I especially want to thank the MPs for their patience. (The session is closed at 17.45 p.m. )
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-15-0.u32603	THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA National Assembly OF THE STENOGRAPHICAL TEXT Twelfth Extraordinary Session 15th of July 2003 (First Day of Work) (The session began at 17.45 p.m. The chairman of Natasa Micic, president of the National Assembly. )
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-15-0.u32604	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening a session of the 12th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2003. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I understand we have a quorum to work with. In accordance with Articles 162, 165 and 80(2). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I would like to inform you that I have convened this session within a short period of time set out in Article 80(1). The Rules of Procedure, because of the need for the National Assembly to adopt proposals for legislation from the agenda of this session as soon as possible, would ensure the efficient functioning of state and other institutions and general stability of the economy. You were presented with the minutes of the session of the Eighth and Ninth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2003. We're going to make a decision on the records. I am voting on the minutes of the June 4, 5, 10, 11 and 17 2003 session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. For 111, no one, with two abstentions, voted 35, a total of 148 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the record. I am voting on the minutes of the July 17, 18, 19, 24 and 25th and 1st of July 2003 session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. For 117, no one with abstention voted 54, a total of 171 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the record. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with a call from the 12th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2003, which was convened at the request of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, pursuant to Article 79(3). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 162. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia have been submitted to you for the maintenance of the 12th extraordinary session, with the agenda set out in that request. Dn e v n i r e d: 1. Proposal for a law on the financing of political parties, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, 2. Proposal for a Law on the National Bank of Serbia, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, 3. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Banks and Other Financial Organizations, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, 4. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Excise Act, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, 5. A proposal for customs law, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. National MP Siniša Mitrovic, based on Article 136(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia proposed that a discussion be brought together on the draft law on the National Bank of Serbia and on the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Banks and other financial organisations (2rd and 3rd points of the agenda). He also proposed to bring together the debate on the draft law amending and supplementing the Excise Act and the Customs Law Proposal (4th and 5th points of the agenda). I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 114, against 69, with three abstentions, did not vote 10, a total of 196 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The word has been issued by MP Bojan Pajtic, president of the DOS parliamentary group - Serbia's Reform.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-15-0.u32605	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, on the basis of Article 81, I propose that the Assembly, during the extraordinary session, work until 20 hours each day, and I propose, on the basis of Article 137, that the debate on amendments on all five points of the agenda last three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-15-0.u32606	So that's two suggestions. I'm voting on the first motion that the National Assembly sits in the course of the 12th extraordinary session up to 20 hours. For 104 against 71, the two abstentions, were not voted 26, a total of 203 MPs. I find the first proposal to extend working hours to 20 hours has been accepted. The second proposal is that the debate on amendments should be conducted no more than three minutes per item of the agenda. I am voting on this proposal from MP Bojan Pajtic. For 115, against 72, there were no abstentions, no vote 21, a total of 208. I agree that the proposal of MP Bojan Pajtic is accepted that the debate on amendments per item of the agenda is not more than three minutes. We move to the 1st point of the agenda: – Proposal for a FINISHING POLICIAN PARTIES (principle debate) You have received a bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by MPs Srdja Popović, Zelđo Hurić, Vladimir Dobrosavljevic, Branislav Blažić, Branislav Vakić, Srboljub Živanovic, Veroljub Arsic, Milorad Mirčić, Dragan Ljubojević, Milovan Kragovic, Natasa Jovanovic, Stevan Kesejić, Dragoljub Stamenković, Petar Jojić, Zlatan Jovanović, Slobodan Janjic, Vitomir Plužarevic, Ljubomir Kragović, Goran Cvetanović, Dragan Pavlovic, Lazar Marjanski, Vjerica Radeta, Dragan Čolić, Joca Arsić, Branko Ružić, Živodarka Dacin, Đura Lazić, together Hranislav Perić and Dragan Todorovović, Jovan Todorović, Sreten Mitrović, together Rajko Baralić and Joko Baralić Žalić Žalić Žalić, Žalić Žalić Žalić, Žalić, Žalić, Žalić, Žalić, Žalić, Žalić, Žalić, Žalić, Žalić, Žalić, Žalić, Žalić, Žalić, Žalić, Žalić, Ž. You also received notice from MP Joce Arsic to withdraw the amendment to article 4 which he submitted on July 15th 2003 at 11.30 p.m., so the procedure leaves the amendment that he submitted the same day but at 12:00 p.m. You received a report from the Finance Committee. I ask the representatives of the parliamentary groups to submit the lists with the declared words per item of the agenda. In accordance with Article 136(1) of the Treaty, Rules of Procedure, I'm opening a search warrant. Since the proposing's representative has not arrived yet, he's on his way, and I'm asking if Mr Nenad Bogdanovic wants the word of the Finance Committee rapporteur. No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-15-0.u32607	The state of emergency is continued, it's sabered out but it's not returned and, for a wonderful miracle, we have two laws in the process concerning political parties. The first is the law on political parties that did not see the light of day, but is obviously the priority of this law on the financing of political parties. That's where the first problems with this bill are going, because practically even the proposer doesn't know who this law is bound by, who this law applies to. It is necessary to regulate the financing of political parties, but from the point of view of achieving the Constitution of guaranteed freedom of political organisation and action, not with the aim of shutting down financially, materially and otherwise the political parties and making it so difficult for them to have political action to practically question whether there is freedom of organisation and political action. And this bill is in favour of all that has been done from March 18th to today, it is one continuity, repainted, to put out the public word in parliament, but also to make it significantly difficult, even in some way, to make it impossible for political parties who are not at the will of the authorities to act politically. It is impossible to talk about politics, about freedom of political action, if the media is closed to just some political parties. It is impossible to talk about freedom of political action if there is no direct transfer from this room, to let citizens see who represented those who elected him, and citizens do not have the basic and basic knowledge of alternatives to an existing political establishment called dosmania. So this law should not be passed before the political party law is on the agenda. The draft law that is in the process is a bad law, because it allows political parties to exist as non-defined groups of citizens, i.e. united citizens who obviously have no motive, no desire to deal with politics, but to catch a connection with existing parties in power, and this fits into what one of the DOS MPs tried to pass through one amendment to one member that practically provides for segedin seminars and subversive facts of certain political parties. We on the political scene have something called political parties, which have a huge wealth, like New Democracy, and now they've been called Liberals, and you know for themselves, ten years ago they grabbed half the property of the Alliance of Socialist Youth, now renting that property, renting out. The marginal party always, as a parasite, grasps power, but you see for yourself, they have no funding problem, although they do not have any divine membership, or any foothold in political life. We have submitted 20 amendments to this bill, primarily with the aim of normalising it to the extent that it does not hinder the freedom of political action. There are some solutions that are acceptable, both on the financing of political parties from the budget and on the participation in the allocation of funds for election campaigns, but a number of restrictions in the acquisition, use and availability of funds, in particular some pointless records, despite existing inspection bodies, the introduction of a new inspection body called the Committee on Finance of the National Assembly, are totally unacceptable, because the working body of the National Assembly cannot be an authority that decides and solves the rights and interests of any party, whether it is a natural or legal person. There may also be the greatest opposite of this law with the provisions of the Constitution, and this and be sure of the future, because political action depends on the security of funds, that the party must be similar, acceptable to the ruling majority, if it wants to survive on a political stage. Many restrictions have primarily this function to prepare the ground for future parliamentary elections, and they should probably be presidential elections and who knows what other choices, perhaps even at all levels, because it is obvious that the existing DOS-manlia political set is not able, nor is it able to resolve the burning economic, social, national and human problems that are increasingly escalating on a daily basis. The Serbian Radical Party, of course, will not vote for the bill, nor in principle. The amendments are trying to make this look like something, but I still have to take advantage of the opportunity to warn those parties that are formally still in the DOS that the Serbian Radical Party has to survive this torture and this riot. We are in time cleansed and prepared for what is being prepared for us, not to tell you how the Serbian Radical Party is trying to get out of the magistrate, the building that was rented and paid for 30 years in advance, while the building in Krunska is being used, so let the promoters consider whether the situation is identical and on which side is the right, justice and truth. I have to point out another situation, that certain tax administrations are removing funds from the Serbian Radical Foreigner, based on ordinary letters from public undertakings to manage the business space, so that the rent is charged by us as if it were some kind of public income. The lease is something contractual, some classic bond, but it's not worth it. It's especially present at the Vracar, and I see it takes dimensions, because it spreads elsewhere. So take care again when you're passing the law, whether it's 128 or 129, how it's going to patch up the majority, take care. You're writing a new standard, writing something that needs to be applied, so whether or not you can do anything to a Serbian radical party, believe me, you won't be able to do anything with this law. We're used to it. Every day, there are these inspections, our business controls, our membership fees, our publishing work. If, let the state authorities control, and they should do their job, but pay attention, at least, to that documentation concerning the material-financial operations of the parties that are now DOS. Believe me, when a gourd breaks up, there goes a mutual accusation, a calling, and you'll see after the fall of this government how much dirt, and even open confessions about the conflict with organised crime to come out, and she "saves" is likely to fade again, so whoever pulled it is thinking pretty much, because within DOS, there are several parties that are rich, and neither have membership, nor have ideology, already represent the interest of certain lobbies.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-15-0.u32608	The word has a proposalr representative, Mr Bozidar Djelic, finance and economy minister in the government of the Republic of Serbia, so MP Dejan Mihajlov and then MP Zoran Angelkovic, according to so far reported representatives of parliamentary groups.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-15-0.u32609	Madam President, honourable MPs, ladies and gentlemen, it is a great honor to present today what may be one of the most important laws that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has presented to this respected home. It is an extraordinary honor for me to present this law, which seems to me, in many ways, to improve opportunities in our country and lead to greater moralization of public life and much greater transparency in the financing of political life. In all countries, not only in transition, but in all developed countries, there is always a question of influence that can have economic or criminal power on political power and in which way one can prevent, or to a minimum, one such influence. This bill that is before you today is a decadent step forward, which, on the one hand, respects the reality of our country and its specificity and before I explain a little more of the provisions contained in this law, I would like to thank the CESID, an NGO that has proposed some of the elements that are in this law, but also Professor Vladimir Goati, who worked on behalf of the Council for the fight against corruption of the Republic of Serbia. They're not just professors. Goati, as well as all members of the Council on Combating Corruption of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, discussed some earlier versions of this law, contributed and their criticisms were fully respected. They, like all those who participated in numerous public discussions with domestic and foreign experts, with people who lead political parties, contributed to this law, which is not among the longest I have had the opportunity to present to you, but is one of the most important, that this text be just as it should be to Serbia. What we can say is that this was one of the key pre-election promises of DOS. Is there a delay now? Yes, this law was supposed to come early, but the best solution was sought, and I think it's very instructive and it's good to have one of these laws proposed to this respected home. I look forward to announcing that many parliamentary groups will support this bill, so there is one very broad consensus on the provisions contained in it. If we move to several key elements of this law, I want to represent the next seven points. The first point is that there is a reasonable balance in this law between funding from public and private sources. If we look at other countries, there are countries developed where there is no public funding of political parties: Switzerland, examples works, and in Italy only for campaigns. We also have one number, and there are already most countries, where there is at least a partial financing of the costs of political parties from the budget. I'd say that standard is something more and more visible. I can say that if we look at this law in general, it has already led our country to one level that is in line with the Council of Europe's recommendation and one adopted on 8 April 2003 at the 835th meeting, which concerned the general rules against corruption in the financing of political parties and election campaigns. These standards that we have in this law are fully in line with what the Council of Europe has recommended, so at the very beginning and with this law we are in some European criteria and trends, while respecting our reality. This funding and balance between public and private contributions and sources are the right measures for Serbia. As far as public sources are concerned, there is no legal gap at this time in the sense that there is already one law on the financing of political parties in Serbia, and there was also recently, up to constitutional changes, an identical law concerning parties at the federal level. There, I must say, was a kind of paradox, because every month, according to the law, the Ministry of Finance and the Economy of the Republic of Serbia passed on to all political parties a sum allowing political parties to finance. However, these funds are quite limited and that is about 70 million dinars in total; by last year, for example, the total funds that were delivered to political parties at the federal level were 260 million dinars. Knowing that a good part of the political parties there was from Montenegro, we can say, and at the same time we know that it was funded by a Serbian taxpayer last year, that a Serbian taxpayer dedicated some 300 million dinars to that purpose. This law, if this esteemed home adopts it, stipulates that 0.15%, means no discretion, so there is no discretion in whatever government is in power, we have the opportunity to single out the budget for this year and that would be one estimate for this year, and that would be about 400 million dinars for those parties that are in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. There will be no additional funding at the federal level, i.e. at the level of the state community, this is not envisaged, as there is no state-level registration of political parties. If we look at the first drafts of next year's budget, the equivalent number would be about 500 million dinars, and there's the key to dividing 30% of these funds at the same levels to political parties, no matter how many MPs they have, and the rest, that is. 70% share by key according to the number of MPs that the political party has. Of course, the Committee asked what the criterion was, whether it was what was the original will of the voters, the first composition, or, after the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia, whether it was the present situation and whether it should change. The answer is that it is not the law, but the electoral law and all those decisions, especially the Constitutional Court, which determines who is the member of which the political group in this home is. The second question is whether it's good for the country if there's no imperative mandate, I wouldn't go into it. Personally, I don't think it's good. Because our constitution and the law, their interpretation and the opinions of the Constitutional Court are what they are. This money comes at a maximum which will not be able to cross any political party from private sources. To point out immediately, when we talk about the balance between public and private revenues of political parties, there must be a balance between the minimum that the budget should be provided, acknowledging that democracy, as Churchill said, is the least bad way of organising life in society, that democracy has many virtues, but it also has some price. In this way and through this funding, through the budget, and we are convinced, a large number of parties and party leaders will have a headache less in the sense that they will not be in constant need to provide this minimum funding for the minimum functioning of their parties, by offices, by several people who do so, costs for electricity, telephone, postage stamps and a lot of things, which is the normal life of one political party. In this way, for those smaller parties, pressure from some donors, pressure from the side of the money will be lower and I expect that, thanks to this part of funding, it will be progress for democracy and that those who may not have a lot of votes will not, if most are narrow, be subject to great interest and great temptations by some economically influential people. On the other hand, let us take an example of Slovenia, thanks to their very good economic situation, they were able to ensure that from their budget the financing of political parties is so much that there is literally no interest of political parties today to get new members, because it is simply less important to them financially and it is something that is avoided in this law. The definition in this law is that one vitality of a political idea is proven by collecting a large number of members, and membership is a matter of the statutes. We all know exactly what membership can be, and there is no limit to political parties collecting. Of course, considering that this will also be public, some abuse will soon be revealed in the sense that someone prescribes enormously large membership fees. You know what normal membership is for natural and legal persons and, in that way, there should be no problem in that change. However, for what is a private part there is a multiple restriction. The first restriction is that no natural person can give membership more than 10 average salaries of the Republic of Serbia in a given year. No legal person, nor entrepreneur can give more than 100 average salaries to fund the political party. In this way, the maximum amount, as we can see, is about a million dinars or about 15,000 euros as far as a legal person can be a donor above that registered membership fee to any political party. Not just that. If we know that this is proposed, which is 0.15% of the Republic of Serbia's budget, downgraded by transfers to social security funds to other levels of government, there is also expected to be a funding of political parties at the AP and local self-government level by 0.00% of their budgets, also reduced by transfers to other levels of government. In this way, public funding from the budget may also be made possible by some smaller parties with one interest which is more local for various reasons, whether they represent some more precise group or group, but at the same time it shows that there is one limit. In any case, any party, with the exception of membership fees, and in accordance with the provisions of this law, cannot collect from these private contributions more than 100% of the same amount from the budget. In this way, if we say that in a regular year, without a choice, approximately, if we take the budget this year, about 400, 500 million dinars will come from the budget to all three levels, this means that the total money that can be introduced in one year that is not electoral in the financing of political parties is slightly less than a billion dinars. It's, like, some outcome that seems to be something that's appropriate to the current situation. When I add that in one election year, additional funding of 0.1% of the Republic of Serbia's budget and 0.05% for the other two levels is added to that, which is also the same limit and the maximum that comes from private contributions, we see, given the economic situation in our country and its opportunities, that in this way it makes it impossible for an individual or some group to literally buy elections, because an additional provision in the election year, it is that, in addition to these limits, no natural person, nor a legal person, can be a donor more than a few percent in the overall financing of that campaign. In this way, Serbia makes it clear that it does not want the situation that occurred in some cases in Russia, where oligarchs or some powerful people literally donate huge sums of money to political groups of their own interest. In this way, in a country where the average member of the 11,000 dinars is largely advanced, but of course it is still a very low level, where the economy is in a much better situation than it was before, but is still in difficulty, in one such country, it is impossible for only a few centres of economic power to literally take over and finance fully that political life. It's something important. The first thing, a reasonable balance between funding from public and private sources, and the second is a fair criterion in the allocation of funds from public sources that gives a part of the same key for all, and the same acknowledges, which is democratically, I give to that party more, to those who have more MPs. We have clear rules, and that's the third thing, in the collection of funds from private sources and restrictions, which is the fourth thing, the volume of funds that can be spent in the election campaign. The last three points I'd like to mention, and the fifth is the full public source of the funds. This was a clear recommendation from the Council on the fight against corruption by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and recommendations from various domestic and international experts, as well as relevant institutions such as the Council of Europe, and as you know, we are members in the last few months and whose principles we have to comply with. So he's trying to eliminate any anonymous donors. Also, in the organisation of the party's work and in financing, you have the designation of the responsible financial person in each party, as well as the addition of all incomes that can go over some sub-accounts, but in extreme terms, all assets of a party must go through one account, and thus will be seen in which purposes are spent. So it makes it impossible to finance through some side institutions and foundation institutes, funds, any other quasi-satellite political parties, everything must go through one account and be recorded neatly in that account. When we talk about the public, there are exceptions that cannot finance political parties in our country, which are foreign states, foreign legal and natural persons; and I have already said, anonymous donors, as well as public institutions, public enterprises, institutions and companies with the involvement of government capital, no matter how much that percentage is, cannot be financed by political parties. Furthermore, private companies providing contract-based services, as well as companies and organisations that exercise public authority, such as chambers of commerce or humanitarian organisations, religious communities, gambling directors, as well as importers, carriers and exporters of excise products. Finally, there are all legal and natural persons who have reached and unsettled public income obligations, so people who haven't paid taxes can't finance political parties. All in all, this public is not only seen through the need to go through one account and to know who gives money, but also what is the competent authority. I have to say, there's one debate about what an organ that can control the application, in financial terms, of this law. In this proposal, it is the Committee on Finance of the National Assembly. There's another idea, it's to become a Republic Election Commission and I have to say that it's mostly the standard in the world that an equivalent organisation like the Republic Election Commission, that it's the one that checks out the implementation of this law. There are ideas to do so in this law. I don't think that would be a bad idea. There are other ideas, to be the Ministry of Finance, however, the Ministry of Finance and the Government are the expressions of one majority, and it seems to us that the control of one such law happens in bodies where both the position and the opposition are present, so there is the Republic Election Commission and the Finance Committee, and these are good places. Finally, the seventh and last thing I would like to point out is that there are significant sanctions for the violation of this law; they are monetary, they are not criminal for the time being, and that may happen, but it is certain that the maximum penalty is the court of the public, because in the sense of the public, each party will have to have an authorised auditor and there is an obligation to make it public in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". In this way he will be available to all, both citizens and the media, and citizens have the right to receive free copy of the final account of any party. Although there are always a lot of skeptics, it is said that this law will only have to some extent have its own effect, I am convinced that when it comes to these figures, when the authorised persons in the political party stand behind one final account, when the auditor looks at it and says that it is, says that everything has gone through that account and you can see what the sources are, which are expenditures, which are purposes and that this account, the report that to the insight of everyone, then, I say, will, plainly, cruel political competition on our scene do its part, and I am sure that not only the other political parties, but also the media will say -- well, if you said that your incomes were so much, where money came from, and how much it cost you to have these billboards, so many minutes on TV, and promotional materials, and events, and simply, here, something is not quite right. In this way, this court of the public and this transparency are very powerful effects that this law will have (but, of course, one law cannot do all) and its consistent application through these seven elements that I will now only repeat: balance between public and private sources, and citizens acknowledge that democracy has a certain price and we are willing to pay it to be valid and fair. Secondly, it is a fair criterion in the allocation of funds from public sources, clear rules in the collection of funds from private sources, limiting the volume of funds that can be spent in the election campaign, the full public sources of funds, the way of spending, the property records and, finally, the establishment of an independent body for control, the setting up of certain sanctions which are monetary character. Are the extraparliamentary parties here forgotten? They are not, in the sense that almost no country is scheduled to finance out-of-parliamental parties. Let's imagine Serbia, where, for example, it would be possible by saying that you have one number of members to get out of the budget, and where it's been tried, has already been punished, because people have made some quasi-political parties to get some funding. We know well that during the presidential campaign, there are times when a candidate who simply wants to get some funding from the budgets that are planned, not to defend some political ideas. Thus, this law provides that for this specific campaign, the president, there is something that is a limit, but that must justify real costs. All in all, if we look at the effects of this law, if you vote it, its application would begin on 1 January 2004, we will be able to predict a timely draft in the 2003 budget and will be ready for both the AP Vojvodina and the local self-government, so that this law will live as long as next year. I am convinced and I am extremely proud to represent today something that I am sure is a major step forward in establishing a valid democracy in our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-15-0.u32610	The word has been made by MP Dejan Mihajlov, president of the DSS parliamentary group, and then by MP Zoran Angelkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-15-0.u32611	This law certainly is one of the basics for regulating political life in each country, given that it has been more than two and a half years of our authority, and this law is only now coming on the agenda, and it is by the will of those who are in government, but by the will of those who pressured them to do this, since it is necessary to edit the political scene and this is one of the segments that should be arranged. This law is acceptable to the DSS and it will vote for this law. Since we have been in favour since the first day of the DSS, not only of the party financing law, but, above all, of the party law and of the conflict of interest law. Equally important is the law on conflict of interest. What happens in those situations when various MEPs are directors of public enterprises, when they perform other public functions and abuse their position by taking funds from public enterprises and using them for political and party purposes? This law does not regulate it until the end, it is regulated in that member that public enterprises can't be finance, but this segment where the directors of public enterprises are, and full of them, is simply being abused and abused during the various campaigns that we have had in order to pre-election campaign. So we have paved roads in some places, there's lighting, someone says bought chickens, beer crates, served cookies to voters, to get them to vote for the party, so those parties lost again, we saw later in the local elections. This area is not regulated and simply, this law as a single segment of the regulation of the political system cannot solve the whole problem. The law on conflict of interest is something that is necessary and that should have gone with this law, as well as the law on the parties that we have received, but which is not on the agenda. The law also had to be on the agenda and to resolve the area with this law and the law on conflict of interest. I can't work when the yellow ones are behind my back, who knows what's gonna happen. Let's move on, this law is important, and I think it had to be passed much earlier. Take, for example, only the presidential elections held last year on two occasions and the CeSID report, which says that one presidential spending nearly 60% of the total amount spent on elections, which is of course your presidential candidate, Miroljub Labus, who you have supported in your heart; even Minister himself on pre-election videos of Miroljub Labus took pictures of himself as though the gunmen were going with Mr Dinkic, some trail in New Belgrade, with light in the hair and wind in the hair, so that on those spots and spots of the Democratic Youth that led the counter-camping, 60% of the funds were spent. Only one presidential candidate spent 60% of the funds, and the other eight presidential candidates spent the remaining 40% of the funds. Is that the way to run the campaign? Of course not. What are the results? We've seen that. Are they counter-proportional to what these presidential candidates won in the election? It is not all about money, but certainly money must be something that will be limited in order, in accordance with democratic principles, to provide equal positions or mostly equal positions to all in one pre-election race and to ensure that citizens, not media-financial lobbys behind individual candidates, are the ones who decide. Unfortunately, money will continue to play a major role in Serbia. There's still black funds. Mr Dinkic mentions black funds in the government, which finance profits. There are black funds in the parties as well. The question is, what time is it going to be, and is there a possibility that these black funds will be eradicated? In Serbia, we still have the most popular hand-to-hand payment, cash, where there are no leads, envelopes in our pocket. This type of payment does not go through the account and is usually carried out in four eyes. It's hard to control that kind of party financing, which there's a lot of. We also talked about the fact that there is a need to regulate and pass a conflict of interest law, i.e. that public undertakings, their directors, MPs, councilors or other party officials simply cannot use neither the official car nor the other means at their disposal of public enterprises, in the function of the election campaign. That's what it's been so far. It's hardly gonna be regulated by this law. This is one attempt by the Minister of Government to solve this area. Some even made crashes by going on campaigns with an official car, all on the company's burden. This law has a lot of good things and it is a modern law on party financing, with the DSS thinking that some parts should be changed. We have submitted some amendments that improve the text of the law, which is that the funds foreseen for party financing are not allocated according to the number of MPs that one party wins, but according to the number of votes the party receives in the elections. We think that this is a principled position, that electoral systems can well change the picture that citizens have given in the elections and that some parties, if the censorship is 5%, win 4.5% in the elections, do not enter parliament, but certainly deserve that their efforts in the elections are adequately rewarded and that money should be allocated according to the votes won, not according to the mandates, both in the part for the regular work of the parties and in the part where the funds relate to elections in the election year. I can say that the flaw in this law, which the criminal provisions are very mild and all sanctions are brought down to some dinar sums which the party, which may have 20 MPs in parliament, will receive as a monthly fee, to be the maximum penalty for violating the provisions of this law, which is little, which is insufficient and which introduces the possibility of parties breaking the law, knowing that sanctions are insignificant, or that these millions of dinars, as far as punishment may be, they can from these other funds and by breaking this law to obtain. Also, a treasure is a sanction if someone exceeds the amount allowed during the election. Of course, after the elections, it is determined that he did so, so when he may have already entered parliament, thanks to this, with a number of MPs, he should pay some ridiculous fine of 200,000 to millions of dinars, which is insignificant if the party gets several percent higher, a few terms higher. Approximately, that would be the amount that the party would gain more for regular work from the budget. So these are the things where you need to increase the sanctions. We have proposed a series of provisions that would strengthen sanctions for this area, where sanctions for this area would above all be to deny, if there is a breach of the law, the financing of the party by the end of the term of office, means, throughout the four-year election period, and that as one serious sanction always stands before the party, given that it will violate the provisions of this law. So far, we've had a series of examples of violations of the law, of over-funding. We had FONAS, who had one of the MPs here. It is the organisation of the SPS, a rejuvenation through which the SPS actions have certainly been financed, where various foundations held by the parties in power have now been financed through an unopened party organisation. The Democratic Party has funds, some of the actions it finances. It simply needs to be prevented, it should be banned, that funding from public revenues is being poured over, from public enterprises to parties, to funds, to various organisations that the parties are making. (President: Are you using for the next 10 minutes? No, no, no, The DSS will support this bill. We have a few amendments. One amendment refers to a member saying who can't be the party's finance officer. I think that's where the crash was made to say that no unions stand as the only one of the party's financials. I expect the amendment to be accepted, given that besides all those listed there is no reason not to name the unions, because they certainly cannot and nowhere in the world are the financials, they are not public. We know how unions finance and how they work, but it's more likely that political structures and oligarchies control trade unions. We know who else controls the unions, say, in the United States. Why don't you put that unions can't be financials? If I can't get other organizations, I don't need unions. Approximately, these are general remarks, but in the course of the debate, our MPs will explain and give further suggestions.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-15-0.u32612	The word has been given by MP Zoran Angelkovic, the SPS parliamentary group, and then by MP Milos Lukic, the SSJ parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-15-0.u32613	Ladies and gentlemen, math is an unfortunate operation, but we'll talk about quorum later. Of course, funding political parties everywhere, in every parliament, is an important element that MPs, positions and opposition always advocate to provide adequate financing conditions and the functioning of political parties. Serious and adequate funding of political parties essentially reduces various opportunities for manipulation of political parties or for the creation of appropriate funds that they do not need. I have to be honest, it's important that Serbia is one of the few countries in the transition that this law had and which has solved, better say, all these years the Law on the financing of political parties has existed. It was probably not adequate and sufficient funding for political parties, but it was important that it was a significant income for political parties to function. Of course, the SPS welcomes any improvement in such a law and the law that allows for better functioning of political parties and the creation of conditions for less manipulation in political parties, in terms of pressure from relevant economic groups that can influence and buy MPs. In addition, to be able to buy MPs in various ways, this is also clearly read in this mandate and in this House, and something was said by the minister in the opening statement. Of course, for Parliament's stability, it is necessary and economically necessary to ensure a stable function of MPs, and until, in addition to this law, the issue of stability of the parliamentary mandate is resolved, I don't think in terms of stability of its function, that it is stable, that it cannot be replaced, etc., we can have a different opinion, but I don't think it's possible that the political party is investing in money, and that tomorrow he is free, so from this it comes out, although it can be said that the state is investing here. It must be stable in terms of economic relations. He can't have the secretary's salary and then he can't be bought. Of course, then he's easily bribed and paid for by some system and moved it to another parliamentary group. Therefore, if we do not have, in addition to this law and the legal issue of a decision by the assembly providing the status of MPs, it is clear that the manipulation between MPs and the political party choosing him will be in the next term. We care about having a stable parliament, which allows citizens' will expressed in some elections to be pictured during the four years of the assembly's term. Now it is not quite present, simply the voter's will in 2000, in December of the month, is not the will of the voter now painted in parliament. It has been changed by various decisions of the Assembly, by buying, by selling parliamentary mandates. The minister here said that a large number of experts were involved in the drafting of this law. He also mentioned Professor Goati. I must say, I was at that counseling session when it came to funding political parties and the law. This law was not present at that counseling. Although counseling was being discussed on Mr. Goati's organisation, Mr. Goati said he had no idea about the law, even though Miss Drecun here said he wasn't in progress. Whether or not he's in progress, today the minister said he was in progress, I don't know, but Mr. Goati then said at counseling that he had no idea about the law. And this consultation, attended by representatives of political parties, here from this House, was not attended by this law, except for the opening presentation, or better said the remarks that Miss Drecun made at the consultation. It was in terms of what could be and what could not be. Experiences in Europe are not exactly what they say here, in the sense that the public has supported this law. They're not because of a few elements. I'll get them. One of these elements is the distribution of funds so that 30% is divided evenly by all political parties participating in parliament, municipal or republican or provinceal parties, and 70% are divided according to their mandates. I've got a few sentences on these terms, but first this 30%. What does 30% mean, all the same? Does this mean that whoever accidentally got one councilman in the community council and whoever got 20 should share 30% of the same? What's that wish? Is there a desire for further political instability in Serbia, forcing political parties that do not exist and that have zero votes? Let's take an example, now there's an elected MP here, with all due respect to the MP, I won't say his name, from a political group that received zero votes in Vrbas the day before yesterday, for a councilman. He is now a member of the Lustration Commission in front of parliament. The political party holds half the government in Serbia, although in elections when it appears it gets zero votes. And now the political group should participate in budget allocations 30%, compared to a political group or political party that has maybe 40% or 30%. That, apart from the desire to force political instability and force small political parties that do not exist, there is no other political rational solution. Secondly, the distribution of funds by committees or MPs is also political, incorrect. She doesn't even share in Germany. In Germany, the number of votes received is divided. The number of votes received, of course the political parties entering parliament are participating in the distribution, is in fact the primary ratio of the allocation of funds that are distributed from the budget. It's not the same, it's the point. It's not the same for two reasons. First, let's take federal elections. There is the essence of this: to get a mandate in the federal parliament, you need 500,000 votes. If it's a proportional electoral system, you can get 900,000 votes, and you have one MP, and that's why you participate in the distribution of one MP, for the funds received. You threw those 400,000 votes in the water. So it's not a fair system. Simply, you can throw several hundred thousand voters in the water and therefore the political party does not get the funds compared to when it has the number of mandates received. A fair approach is the number of voters for the political party. When, according to the number of voters received for the political party, funds are allocated to those parties that enter the parliament or the municipal assembly, local self-government, then both mandates and funds invested by the end of the term of office are protected. No one else can participate in the mandate distribution, whether he escaped after the political party or not, whether he was bought by someone with funds or not, but the funds remain in the political party to participate. It is necessary that the law on the financing of political parties participate few of those who are all these years, not only from political parties that are now in opposition, but also from political parties that are in power, but also from those who have walked, who know what the political party is. Those who know what the political party organisation is and how it collects membership fees, how these 20% of the funds and budget funds are provided from these 80%, or better say than 100%, which are to be obtained, and what is income and expenditure. That story about that's enough, let's just assume that these funds are enough to fund the political party, let's take Chachak. I just happened to count, and I asked Rajk what the budget of Cacak municipality was, and he said 17m euros. This means that 17,000 euros should be distributed for political parties. What is 10,000, 15,000 per month for a councilman per political party, provided that the daon gets 20% or 30% of the term of office. What's 15,000? It's not even for the phone, let alone for the heating. What are we talking about? It's easy for you, you were the president of the council, so this is how you financed the political party. I am talking about serious funding, if we want what Minister Djelic was talking about not to depend on cross-financing, that the state provides a minimum of funding and the existence of a political party; 0.1% of the budget is certainly not enough, unless the current political parties in power think they will mostly be, so these slope lines, these billboards, and only what appears on billboards in independent Serbia, are worth more than the entire budget of this political party that advertises independent Serbia. The whole budget in a year, the last billboards of DHSS are more expenditure than their entire income in a year. Do the math, Minister, and you'll see it's true. I don't call them names, it's a fact. It's a mathematical formula. That, Bogdanovic, will come to you. Just talk. It will remain this law when we come to power. That's the difference between the current situation. Therefore, the the thesis that this is an excellent balance between public and private incomes with 20% of the income provided from private sources, and I said how monthly it is, for example, the Municipality's Committee in Cačka should get from local self-government. That means another 3,000 can secure monthly income, which is 18,000. For Radio "S" as long as he's the listener, he'll have enough. That's not controversial. What am I supposed to do when you're listening to Radio "S"? If you weren't listening, you wouldn't have mentioned him. I'm proud, and I'm glad you're listening, because it's the most listening radio station. I'm talking about a political party right now, and I'm not talking about Radio "S." That's what we'll do in second place. Since we've chosen advice... (President: Are you using for the next ten minutes? I'll have another ten minutes. Slovenia is mentioned here as an example that these political parties have provided enough funding from public revenues and that they do not have to provide additional funding. By providing the main income of the ruling political party there with its assets. The political party, Miss Dracun, heard this, provides more than 40% of the income from its own sources from the rent of what it rents, even to other political parties, because normal people do not take away other people's property from membership. Even Germany didn't take away the property that was acquired by membership. There are now two different things. This is where frogs and grandmothers mix. One is the Union of Communists, where you, who are to join that political party, have to write a request and then accept that you are paying the membership fee. The Union of Communists is funded from membership. The Socialist Union and the Youth are financed from the budget. It is logical, then, that those political parties that are financed from the budget and those assets that have been acquired through budget funds belong to the state. Those political parties that acquire property from membership, no matter how the system changes, must be guaranteed and must be safe and must survive. Only then is one member of the association of citizens or political parties safe when he invests his membership fee that it remains permanently good to that political organisation or to the association of citizens where he invested. But when you don't try lustrations and other things... Then, when it comes to the Committee's report, I don't know where that report came from and an example of the report being submitted to the Finance Committee. It is true, the president of parliament is submitted in Germany for insight, not for consideration. What does that mean to the Finance Committee now? What does the Finance Committee have to consider, what does he have to look at, adopt? Is the Finance Committee supposed to adopt that financial report by any chance? I don't understand what that is. It's not even explained here, but that's how - the Finance Committee will consider the report and thus provide the full public with sources of funds. Of course, the final bill should be a public document, it should be made available to the public, it is not disputed, and it is now a public document and should go out in the Official Messenger, and that is not disputed, but why the Finance Committee. Why would the Finance Committee consider a political party report? Therefore, I think that these issues should be corrected here and in this case, if these amendments proposed by the SAA are accepted, thereby ensuring Parliament's stability, we can also support this law because this is an upgrade of the previous law. If these objections don't get adopted, then we wouldn't be able to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-15-0.u32614	The word has been issued by MP Milos Lukic, an authorised representative of the Serb Unity Party's parliamentary group. Are any of the other presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups answering for a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-15-0.u32615	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable Mr. Minister, when it comes to the Bill of Political Parties' Funding Act, we from the Party of Serbian Unity first came to the thought that it was the order and the basic principle that should have been respected that the ruling parties, as they promised, say that and how they were financed while the opposition were, because this law, as proposed, seems quite tempting, seem fair and anyone who would say that they did not want to vote for that law could be called not to wish well for this state. However, if conflicts continue and disputes within the DOS, on the media pages, it is certain that many more will surface and will be seen who is and where funded, not only from abroad, but also from various domestic sources, which are now the subject of the fight against organised crime. When it comes to this law, two things have also been separated -- funding the regular work of political parties and funding election campaigns. When it comes to funding regular party activities, we are in some way joining Mr. Angelkovic's position that this will not be enough for regular work and that it is certain that those parties that are in power will have the opportunity to play this law. Therefore, it does not give equal treatment to all the political parties who are fighting on this political scene at the very beginning. When it comes to public sources, when it comes to budget funds, we have an obligation to finance the parties from the republican budget, according to a particular recipe. Also, such an obligation has been made by local self-government units, but the second question is whether we have provided for sanctions in the case, as we have had the opportunity to experience, that one of the officials in the government does not want to fulfil its legal obligation and that certain resources be given to a particular political party, and also very often they will happen that the units of local self-government do not have enough resources in their budget and that they will not be able to implement this obligation. In that case, we have a number of dispositions in this law, but sanctions are only for certain proceedings and, roughly, sanctions are directed towards parties that are not in power. When it comes to Article 3, when it comes to private sources of funding, the Serbian Unity Party has proposed an amendment that makes sense, given the current economic situation in this country. In fact, we have proposed to add, in addition to the above-mentioned funding methods set out in Article 3, the voluntary work of the party members. In fact, many people are unemployed, many people do not have the opportunity to financially help the party's work, but they have enough free time and can participate in certain actions that can still give financial effect and thus help finance the party. Also, when funding from public sources, we believe that this percentage is low and that it should be realistically seen, that the Ministry of Finance may have time to change these percentages. Also, Article 6 says it is forbidden to receive material and financial assistance from foreign states, foreign legal and natural persons, anonymous donors, public institutions, etc. It's very difficult to determine these currents. In fact, here, in some ways, this article has been given a warning to those who receive these funds to do so in another way, not to be transparent, but it will certainly happen. It also raises the question - whether someone who used to take funds from abroad and who in this way financed his party will have to repay those debts. Also, Article 7 which speaks of banning any form of pressure on legal and physical persons etc. It is not for this law, because it is a matter that should certainly be treated in the law on political parties, because here anyone who gets angry, who is the subject of various trades, will be able to say that he has been pressured and thus financed by a particular party, which can also cause the consequences that we have at the end, where sanctions are very rigorous. In the financing of the election campaign in Article 8, we of the Serbian Unity Party felt that in addition to the following ways, i.e. activities in the pre-election campaign, such as posters, ads, broadcasts on radio, television and other media, advertising videos, publications, travel expenses should be added. We believe that travel costs represent a very high percentage of the costs in the pre-election campaign. We know that very well, you know that and you and these are the costs that are inevitable to go around the electoral body, to expose your program, and they're not decidently listed here. Whether the promoter thought they were covered by the "both others" or not, we don't want to speculate, but we suggest that travel costs be recognised. We can immediately say it is by the criteria recognised by the Serbian Parliament for its activities. Also, with the cost of voting lists covered in Article 10, we have a proposal to make 20% of the pre-election budget, and only after publishing the results of the other 80%. The distribution seems quite reasonable and again raises the question that are sanctions when the ministry does not act on attitude 2, where it says it is necessary to identify these funds. So here we keep going with the assumption that the Ministry will be fair and everyone else won't be fair. However, when this is associated with Article 11, we have one great illogicality. Please pay attention to Article 11, paragraph 2, which says - the amount of funds from private sources must not exceed 20% of the funds provided for in Article 9 of this Act. This means that you campaigns need to implement 20% of the budget and 20% from private sources, and when the campaign is over, you will get 80% of the budget and you will be able to finance 80% from private sources. What are you funding after? The logical question is that this should have a reverse ratio. I understand that the budget doesn't want to finance more than 20%, and that's logical, but it needs to be possible to finance 80% of the campaign from private sources, and to just end up with those 20% at the end or even that you can finance 100% of the campaign. If you don't pass the election, that's exactly what I'm telling you. Pay attention to this. What are you going to do with 20% of the funds and then why are the 100% assets, which are probably realistically planned for one activity, what do you need these funds for after the campaign? I'm asking you that, get it or not get it. To repay your debts, but who will trust you. We're on the right subject right now. So you're now coming as a political party to the situation of doing the opposite of this law, that people who give you money on a word that shows you some trust, you promise something you shouldn't do under this law, which is some privileges when you come to power. I don't have some cruel political attitude here. I'm talking about some things that are everyday life, because the way it says it, you've got a whole 20% campaign to finish. After who won, who lost, it doesn't matter anymore. (President: Do you want to use the next 10 minutes?) Yes. I feel that this should be seriously considered and that special MPs from the ruling coalition should think the same way, because we will all be affected if this is the provision of Article 11. As regards liability for spending the funds, it is regulated by law, and bookkeeping, accounting records of income and expenditures, final account lecture, annual audit, that is all that is normal for all other legal entities, or for all market-based entities, so that nothing is new. However, we have an absurd situation here that we are now mixing the Finance Committee as some kind of control body. If it's already standing like this, the Finance Committee certainly shouldn't have that control role. It says here that the final account is handed over to the Finance Committee, that the Finance Committee is considering filing applications, etc. This is certainly not right, surely far exceeds the powers of the Finance Committee provided for by the Rules of Procedure. There are other state authorities to control, and let them do their job, let them control, let them write their applications, no one is defending them. When it comes to publication, the final account and reports are said to be published in the RS' Official Messenger on the cost of the political party. You know that the final account contains a large number of pages and patterns that are very non-transparent for laymen. I have a very concrete proposal that the finance and economics minister prescribes one form that would contain all relevant data and which would be reviewed and that all citizens could read in the Official Messenger. As such, it would probably be interesting for other media, and we would avoid further obligation if we were obliged to report to every citizen who wants to deliver a copy of the final bill on his expense, because it could ultimately cause the shagging, as we already had in parliamentary life, to report now to thousands of citizens who are looking for the Democratic Party's final account, just in order to chican those services that are working on it. We don't think that if something was published in the "officer" in general, there's no need for someone to ask for a copy, even if he pays for it. We also feel that there is nothing special about transparency and the public. When it comes to sanctions, I was particularly surprised at Mr. Michael's discussion earlier, who said that the fines are minimal and that it's from 200,000 to million nothing, and we've heard here that the parties will get 10-15 thousand a month, and now if for someone who doesn't know how much work experience, how much work he's done, and how hard he's worked to make, 200 thousand to millions of dinars is no punishment, we really don't come from the same country and we don't come from the same climate, because I think that in the whole Balkans, and not only in Serbia, they're extremely hard to make money. So the question of fines from 200,000 to million -- we don't have any graduation here, because someone may have exceeded the costs that are on an annual level of several million for a few thousand dinars, he did, and you're punishing him from 200 grand to a million. We do not have the opportunity to take this punishment to the weight of the acts for which it is pronounced, so that we believe that the penalties are too high and we are sure that they will be applied exclusively to the insubordination and to those who do not have authority. Also, when it comes to breaking these costs, I have to remind you, every day looking at state media, and now it's known what the state media is, watching the reports of our Prime Minister, Vice President and Minister, they all appear daily under the markings of their political parties. That's a price. We know very well what the price of a press conference is, which, under the markings of your party, you schedule and publish, and talk about state problems from the domain of the government, from the domain of your ministry, under the flags and markings of the party, is one very direct marketing that is not sanctioned under these provisions. I am afraid, in addition to these possibilities, that people who are in power will be driving an official car, such objections have been made in previous campaigns, protected by state security, welcomed by local presidents of municipalities on the budget of these municipalities, that we are far from justice and justice, and that we will have a lot of trouble to prove that the conditions on the political market are uneven. All this stuff I've been saying isn't all crazy. This is well-intentioned and this is for thinking, and I particularly believe that all policy-makers should be aware that one day they will be in power, one day in opposition, but if we are pursuing some canonons and some values that are above the everyday life, then we need to make even more serious efforts to regulate this law, and we in the Serbian Unity Party suspect that it will be properly applied. It may seem tempting as it says, but we suspect that its application will be as prescribed.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-15-0.u32616	Are any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, applying for a word? The word comes from MP Zoran Cirkovic, president of the New Serbia parliamentary group. The first elected MP is MP Vladimir Dobrosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-15-0.u32617	Ladies and gentlemen of the rest of the People's Parliament, dear Mrs. Micic, dear Mr. Minister and other members of the government, cabinets, secretaries, etc., the need to pass this law is evident. It is necessary simply to regulate our political life, which is institutionalised in political parties. The basic objection that stands generally is the fact that it is passed after the announced law on political parties. Perhaps the natural order would have been that this parliament passed a law on political parties, established criteria for certain political organisations to have party status, and then regulate mutual relations within the party, i.e. to regulate the ways and sources of their funding. The passing of this law is really necessary to grant our political life once again. In principle, looking at, uh... Mrs. Micic, remind Zeljo Huric, he is very restless. It is already about the work in return, its tendency to discipline is already becoming alarming. There is one thing that remains unclear about Mr. Djelic's exposure to me. He says that by respecting the will of the Constitutional Court, he is in some way legalizing a violated voter's will. So, in the part where they will allocate funds to political parties, respect the status quo, and according to their political power in parliament, they will allocate proportionate funds, regardless of whether the party did not participate in the elections before or did not have a registered election list. I followed Mr. Bucky's exposure, he's a friend, he's long predisposed to become a member of the Social International, but then you're past him, under very magical circumstances. Now, let's say, I came up with an idea, along with the general methbuscians, why they didn't really pass the distribution law, about the deobi of the funds that the Union of Communists of Yugoslavia had. I have participated in political life since 1990, and I know how many opposition parties were then, and now the ruling, even those who do not participate in political parliamentary life swore to political cleanliness, so they gave up their communist standing, and if you had remembered and said this - the criterion by which we will share the funds available to the Communist Union is the number of members in the current political parties, believe me, the opposition parties would have run to report already their people, although they had previously given up. I don't know why you didn't do it. You'd make a big mess and I don't know what kind of order that counter would be. Now that you're moaning, it's already too late. Otherwise, it's very indicative when the former ruling party, and especially I don't want to mention it that I wouldn't give it the right to a replica, only recognizes myself as an asset superintendent and a follower of the Communist Union, but it never admits to an ideological one, gives up that. I say, if you had done what you didn't, many members and many opposition parties in Serbia would have run to report their significant participation in the distribution of that cookie. I don't know what the general amount would be. What's the point, we can say, is a law like this that entered the regular procedure, which is on the agenda and which the Assembly will consider, in general, looking at it is good. He objectively edits certain things that have been unsettled, he also talks about public sources of income that the parties have, as well as sources of income from private donors, sponsors, memberships, membership fees and so on. I hope he truly will honor our political life. I remain in the position that it would really be more politically useful and regular that this law followed immediately after the adoption of the law on political parties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-15-0.u32618	Are any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, applying for participation in the debate on this agenda? No, I don't. ) The speech is attended by MP Vladimir Dobrosavljevic, the DSS parliamentary group, and then by MP Dragan Pavlovic, the SRS parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-15-0.u32619	Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Mr. Minister, it is no doubt nice to welcome such a law before the Serbian Parliament, it is nice to welcome it and because it should have been passed probably two and a half years ago. With this law and its present presentation, or presentation in the Republic Parliament, we de facto face another fact. We face the fact that the issue of economic reforms is more important than institutional reforms and that economic reform is more important than institutions, before the rules of the games are adopted in one country, before the adoption of a political framework in which the state itself is acted. It is clear, and this has shown the experience of every country in transition and every serious liberal democracy in the world today, where the country is first regulated, where political institutions are arranged, and then, after that, it moves into economic social reform. In that sense, this law is really late, but it's better than ever. One of the problems with this law is that it cannot be passed or interpreted alone, individually, should not be seen in isolation compared to several other laws necessary to follow it, the law on elections, the law on political parties, the law on conflict of interest. Again, so that we may not be maligned and that no one would talk about how much worse for the state, the worse for the Serbian government, the better for those of us who are in opposition, although that may be the case, this time I will not say so. For the simple reason, this is a good law, this is a modern European law, a reform law, and in European frameworks it is more than solid. As such, he, of course, is not difficult to accept, but, I say, it is necessary, that he shows his many facts and that he would point out his full purpose, bring a few accompanying laws and do so in the most urgent period. Therefore, I appeal to the minister that in the Serbian government too, it will affect such a thing, because I repeat, for nothing and for me as a member of the DSS and as a member of an opposition party, it will not benefit the government of Serbia or the ruling majority, unless it brings a better deal to the citizens of Serbia and the state of Serbia. On the other hand, the advantage of this law is, above all, that they institutionalise the political scene itself and institutionalise the political system, i.e. the party system in Serbia. When I talk about it, I think first and foremost of a disproportion that exists in modern societies, modern political societies that are increasingly represented by the thesis that the non-governmental sector and various civil initiatives should take over the role of articulating the political attitudes of citizens of a state community, and that political parties are, in some ways, overcome and that their monopolies and their political compromise in the representation of citizens in the state should be reduced. That's not true, of course, and it's not possible. In modern political systems, no matter how much someone has tried to reduce it, political parties remain the main subject of political organisation and articulation of the will of citizens of a state community. In this sense, this law, except to regulate relations on Serbia's political scene, which will boost financial control, as well as the political parties themselves, which will certainly reduce corruption in that domain, will do another very important thing, in a sociological sense, a very important thing. That's what this law will help, I'm not saying it'll do it all the way, but it will achieve something in some other countries that's been going on since the mid-60s, in France's fifth republic in George Pompidu's campaign for President of France, and that's what one group will finally be made of politicians. So, not entirely thanks to this law, but this is an initial step and politicians will finally become a kind of social class and politics will no longer be a means to enrich people, but politics will become a space of human action from which to live normally. Certain remarks that we have on this law primarily concern the tightening of penalties, i.e. its criminal provisions, where I would, above all, pay attention to Article 20, where we have taken over one solution that exists in the German law on the financing of political parties, which is that if one party breaks through a certain amount during the election campaign, the penalty must be double the amount of the sum and plus the ban on funding from public revenues for the following year. Political parties and their actions are too sensitive matter and too serious and important for the citizens of one country to have laws, i.e. sanctions for any normative offence, and hence, a kind of ethical violation, not to be mild, not to be overcome, have to become more rigorous, or stricter. On the other hand, the allocation of funds according to parliamentary mandates will be questioned for the following reasons. I don't know how many of you remember 1992 and a round table organised in the federal government; then the Prime Minister of the Federal Government was Mr Panic and then there was one round table among other things on elections, on political parties and on the Party Finance Act. The parties of the then DEPOS and then the Democratic Party, which performed independently in the 1992 elections, represented another principle on the allocation of funds according to mandates. They represented the principle of distribution of funds according to the number of votes won. For that reason, I think it's principled to stand up for such a means today. Besides, there's another reason. This law would have to be long-term. This proposal, which I have now put forward, exceeds the usual distinction between the proportional and the majority electoral system. The number of winnings, i.e. the allocation of funds according to the number of votes won, becomes irrelevant whether the electoral system will be proportionate or majority. It enables funding, literally according to the election will of one country's citizens. In this way, among other things, we have to overcome a distinction that exists in the Anglo-Saxon political systems, which is the bipolarity of the party. Serbia should cultivate, because there are more political, ideological, sociological, ethnological differences and there are different articulations of these particularities, a multipartial political system in terms of not bipolarity, but multipolarity, that is, the party's representation that best reflects the proportional system in the elections. Respecting the chances that in a few years, perhaps ten years, at a local level, we will adopt a majority electoral system rather than being proportionate at present, this paradox is being resolved, i.e. allowing the law to be long-term. As I said, this is a good law, it will serve the citizens of Serbia, our state and political parties well, but he, I repeat again, will not produce any results if he is isolated. In that sense, I urge the Serbian government to understand what it has sent to this legislative proposal, which is that institutional reforms, that reform of the political system is the basis for a successful transition in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-15-0.u32620	The word has been made by MP Dragan Pavlovic, and the next one registered for the word is MP Petar Madzharevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-15-0.u32621	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the reason for the passing of this law by emergency procedure is not the creation of a legal framework for the financing of political parties, which is crucial for the work of state authorities and organisations, but the fear of the ruling political oligarchy, which is aware that their policy has no foothold in the people, and knowing that it will disastrously pass on in elections that are inevitable, wants its political opponents to be even more materially weakened and controlled to have a better starting position and to maintain what kind of reputation in their political mentors from the West. Like all the legal proposals that we received from the Serbian government as a proposing, this bill is not good and it is difficult to edit it with an amendment solution. Since we from the Serbian Radical Party know that this law will be passed, so that later we will all suffer the consequences of its application, we have tried to bring about a number of amendments that we have submitted to at least this law under constitutional frameworks. This bill is characteristic of the introduction into the business of party financing by the Assembly Committee on Finance and the delegation of power by law to this committee of state authorities, which is totally unconstitutional. The elections are one of the regular types of political parties' activities, but it is necessary to distinguish between funding election campaigns from budget funds and electing MPs and electing the president of the Republic. Promotional gatherings are one of the most important aspects of the election campaign and they should by no means depend on the will of the parties in power. The political party can also raise funds by its work, not only during the election campaign, if it regulates the statutes. If a violation of the ban results in an illegal benefit, the benefit should be deducted, and as so far many are financed from abroad, the funds should be returned to the account of the Republic of Serbia's budget. There is no constitutional basis for limiting the investment of natural persons for the election campaign of political parties, and it is unnecessary to open a special account only for elections, since political parties have an account that is subject to all kinds of control. Political parties have the legitimate right to spend legitimately acquired funds and the competent state authorities are empowered to monitor the legal work of legal persons, not the working bodies of the Serbian Parliament. That's why I'm surprised by the proposal to limit the funds that the parties can get from natural persons, because it's unheard that some law can limit the spending of private funds. The way the funds are allocated from the budget is more illogical and cannot possibly match the real status of political parties. The DOS's view of transparency at the expense of political parties is unacceptable to the Serbian Radical Party. We are absolutely for the public of the financial business of political parties, but this is achieved in the way that we have foreseen the amendments. This is only part of it, and otherwise there are numerous reasons why the Serbian Radical Party will not vote for the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-15-0.u32622	The People's Messenger Petar Madzharevic has the word, and the following is the People's Messenger, Toma Busetic, declared to be the next one.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-15-0.u32623	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the most economically developed countries in today's world are democratic societies. Countries where there is no multiparty system are either remains of communism or dictatorship. The existence of parties with different views on individual political issues is a prerequisite for the stability and development of a single society. With their confrontations, in their continuing efforts to bring down power, by pointing to the wrong and harmful moves of the party or parties in power, through parliamentary control of the executive authority, overall, a beneficial effect is being achieved for the whole society. Of course, apart from parties in developed democracies, the control and control functions of the government are performed by professional media, as well as the politically developed public. Developed democracy requires developed state institutions which in no way should threaten or, God forbid, like us, are knowingly and systematically destroying their reputation. In Serbia, the last 13 years of parties with huge resistances and various obstacles to the ruling regime have slowed down. As the countries of Central and Eastern Europe moved much faster towards democracy in this regard, we have created a vision of multilaterals under Milosevic with no real possibility for the development of democratic institutions. The main concern of the regime was the preservation of power, not the well-being of Serbian citizens. Everything was subordinated to that goal. Nearly three years after the regime collapsed in Serbia, Milosevic's matrix is repeated. Not to sin against Milosevic's soul, in providing key state institutions and destroying their reputation, this authority is both an ossion and more uneyed than the previous one. We inherited over 230 political parties and movements from the previous government. The number was aimed at dissuading citizens of Serbia from democracy during the period of communism, creating an impression of confusion and reducing the importance of authentic democratic parties that have appeared on the political scene in the past 13 years. The democratic opposition to Serbia came to power in 2000, on the wings of major pre-election promises, at the moment the people burned to the nail. What happened? Three years later, opposition parties, the corrective factor in the political life of every democratic state, are again the subject of Satanisation, only in another context. Once again, the state sees itself as party property, again the media divides into ours and mercenaries, puts everything into function as informal centres of power, again the opposition is divided into constructive and hostile ones, who would like early elections and changes in power. The polls are being ordered again. In one word, to quote one government organization -- "It's all the same, he's all gone." The long - awaited law on the financing of political parties was finally on the agenda of the National Assembly. Decisions in the draft law are mostly correct, with the exception of penalties provided for in breach of its provisions, to which the DSS tabled the amendment, proposing a solution that exists in some Western European democracies with great experience in the area of campaign financing. In Article 6(2), we propose that the right to finance be withdrawn for the entire term of office, rather than for a year, in the event that the illegally acquired funds are not paid into the Republic's budget. In Article 20, we proposed the direct binding of fines in the event of overruns in the election campaign, by doubling the amount exceeded. We believe that this would be more just to punish cases of greater abuse. So the party that goes over 10 million would be fined 20 million. Given that the funds provided for the election campaign are quite sufficient, we believe that this punishment is quite appropriate. The DSS has provided for fairer access to funds from budget sources for parties that have not entered parliament. The number of votes criterion is more precise and fairer than the number of mandates. The main problems that arise with the financing of political parties in rich Western democracies that are our role model are the equality of political competitors and the limiting of election costs, so that economic power, rather than the political programme of parties, is not the first. The key problem is moral, however, and it is about preventing corruption, which is everywhere, but it is certainly the most widespread in poor countries. By definition, it is the authority to which the concept of corruption and all the negative things it carries to itself, which weakens the strength of a state. It is more surprising that the law has been proposed to take effect since 1.1.2004. Is this government giving itself enough space and time to do all the work for the next election? Opposition parties are a prerequisite for democracy. After the latest developments around the Radio-Difusing Council and the cool trades that took place on this occasion, I must conclude that in this National Assembly, the Democratic Party of Serbia remains the only opposition base of this, according to many parameters, of the poor government.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-15-0.u32624	The word has been made by MP Toma Busetic of the SPS parliamentary group, and then by Parliament MP Emilija Krstic of the DSS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-15-0.u32625	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we are considering the law on the financing of political parties by emergency procedure. It is absolutely unnecessary for this law to be considered today by emergency procedure. In my humble opinion, there are three reasons why this law is being considered today by an emergency procedure. The first reason is the ban on receiving material and financial assistance from foreign governments, foreign states, foreign natural and legal persons. Then I'll explain why and how. Another reason is that this linear allocation of 30% of the budget, because that is how these small, small parties whose value and strength are measured are satisfied, and they are increasingly unsatisfactory. The third reason is to confiscate the SPS property, as the legal successor of the Alliance of Communists of Serbia. We've always been against funding political parties by foreign states, foreign governments. No one gives money for free today, there are always reasons. These interests of foreign governments and foreign states do not coincide with the interests of those countries whose parties receive these funding. That's how it's always been. That's how it is today. Why are we now considering this as an emergency procedure, and why is there this decisive position, related to the ban on the financing of political parties by Western governments? It is clear that the West's favorites, Minister Djelic, are your current political opponents in some way Dinkic, Labus. They're favorites of the West. I must confess that you are a very bad authority, but Dinkic and Labussa are a much worse solution. You are controlled by international financial organisations, the IMF and the World Bank, but they are direct perpetrators, mercenaries of the IMF and the World Bank. Since you are no longer loved ones as you were, you are afraid that these funds will be made available to Dinkic and Labus and G17 plus, and here we have your political enemies, above all the Democratic Party, Vuksanovic. Vuksanovic has said several times that he is not disgusted by any money, anything is possible. We have seen, these months or these years since DOS is in power, large billboards, at 15, 20, a month -- "The pure face of Serbia". It is clear that Vuksanovic has no money, it is clear that no one is funding him from the country, it is clear that the funds are coming from the side. Whether it's Panic or someone else, it doesn't matter, but it bothers you now. Why didn't you make a provision in these provisions for this law to be applied retroactively, to have a feedback? That would be the real thing, like we had this lustration law, so that extraprofit bill, because it would come under attack almost the whole DOS. Ninety per cent of DOS parties financed outside the SPS over ten years. Let's just take Tim Marshall's book, a British journalist, that says that the 2000 campaign was spent on a dossage party somewhere around $70 or $80 million. So what was just given in those previous years? Of course, you don't need outside funding right now. They won't even give it. You have Bogoljub Karic, you have Kollet, you have and you will finance this current government, and in the end you have budgets. All the budgets are so in your hands. The second main reason why this law is passed by emergency procedure is precisely this linear funding or in equal terms for small political parties and large political parties. For example, according to this 30% key, the SPS will have as much as Zarko Korać, for example, with one MP here, will have as much as these separated steppers, Branko Pavlovic and this small one. Similar funds will also be given to the DA, all of which are political parties that have no support from the people, as the radicals used to say. Of course, these parties are not far from New Democracy, the Democratic Centre, the Civil Union of Serbia, Batic's party; their support is measured below one percent and these false surveys conducted by "Strateg marketing", all these parties are said to have below one percent. Now, the problems in the congregation are great. They won't vote on one law, on the other, blackmailing you, and you have to pass one such law and that those 30% of the funds, these budgets, are won on equal honor, as well as large parties such as the SPS, the SRS and other parties. When I talk about part three, it's about taking away the SPS property. If we're followers of the Communist Union for a lot of things, then I guess we should be followers when it comes to property. These funds should be separated from those used to build buildings of the Socialist Union, youth organisations, etc. No one forced anyone to be a member of the Communist Union. What's the problem? The problem is that we have more communists in DOS today than in the SPS. Except for a few here, Micovica, Cirkovica, a large number are just members of the Communist Union of the time. These are the communists who came out of Draža Markovic's rails, and they only bothered that Slobodan Milosevic and the SPS were in power. They said it wasn't a good flag, anthem, and now everything's fine. That's true. We still have a lot of objections, but we'll talk about it in the amendments. I'd just like to point out a few more things, relating to the presentation of my colleagues from the DSS, who spoke again about Slobodan Milosevic. I don't think it makes any sense anymore that the Democratic Party of Serbia is talking about Slobodan Milosevic. Slobodan Milosevic was a dominant political figure. Then all the political parties were minor. For example, your party has all these years had the support of 200-300 thousand voters. That is true, but on the other hand, Milosevic did not win either DOS or Kostunica. He won the NATO Pact and won big promises. That's true.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-15-0.u32626	The word has a folk MP, Emilija Krstic, and the next one registered for the word is MP Dragan Colic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-15-0.u32627	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, Mr Minister, we will all agree that the unquestionable importance of the existence of organisationally strong and stable political parties as bearers of a permanent and well-established democratic society. Of course, in this respect, the legal foundations governing a particular area are also important and this one, and it is good that this law has come on the agenda, although we have objections to the fact that this law is not followed by other legal projects that would have to follow it in order for this area, i.e. the legislative legislation in this area to be rounded up and that this would actually be the first step in regulating this very important area for a democratic society. Today, however, we are only dealing with the bill that regulates part of the financing of political parties' work. The DSS, as you've already heard in my colleagues' previous presentations, is in the view that this bill is good and we will vote for it. Of course, we have our better solutions that we have referred to in several amendments, which concern better resolution of individual forms of funding, as well as criminal provisions in the event of non-compliance with this law and, of course, there will be more words in the discussion in particular. It is completely too high to remind that the legal resolution of the area of funding of political parties is a prerequisite for elimination (although never completely) and there have also been countries developed Western democracies already experienced potential dangers and irregularities. Of course, there are no ideal solutions, there are no uniform solutions and there are no solutions that will solve all problems. The most compatible solution must be carefully found, in relation to existing conditions and the environment in which political parties act and develop. In that sense, in our case we should bear in mind, and I think that this law has somewhat taken this into account for our satisfaction and has taken into account the characteristics of our political life, political pluralism in Serbia, and the economic, economic and institutional framework in which political parties act. We're primarily opinions, I say again, that this law is satisfactory. The second question is how will it be implemented and how much will or desire there will be for those whose hands are the institutions of the system to implement all the legal provisions of this project, both in the area of funding and in the area of control. What is it that is defined as a problem and what should any legal project do? First and foremost, this is what is typical of everyone, including developed democracies, but especially countries in transition, which is the phenomenon of corruption. Another problem is the existing, or unequal funding conditions for all political actors that should be equated. Of course, a good legal solution and good control of implementation of it can be fought, of course never to the end, it is an experience, but we can deal with what is today defined as "a political service for certain financial contributions. "Also, by defining the source of funding and it is good that this law, apart from private sources, defines the public funding source, which is settled in Article 3. A different origin of money financed by a political organisation allows the political party to act normally and develop not only in the conditions of election campaigns, but also in the conditions of normal and regular work. We all know that membership fees and donations are not enough for one political party to survive and that it could work normally, to cover all its costs. Therefore, public funding is good from the aspect of increasing the money that comes into the political party's budget, and also from the fact that, in this way, taxpayers indirectly contribute to better functioning of political parties and help make the political parties, who are co-organising their lives and who they vote for, function better. Of course, there lies the danger of abuse by those in whose hands the institutions of the system are, but there is again a move of control that needs to prevent and eventually sanction. You are in principle familiar with the amendments that the Democratic Party of Serbia has on this legislative project. I hope that the government of Serbia and the minister will have the understanding and that they will agree with the arguments they have heard in defence of these amendments, for now in principle, and in particular they will be talked about more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-15-0.u32628	The People's MP Dragan Colic has the word, followed by MP Petar Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-15-0.u32629	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is up to the bill to prevent the financing of political parties. This law, if voted, and you use all available means to adopt this bill, just as you have started this session, will be the expression of your impotence and fear of political opponents, and there is an opportunity to fear the most Serbian radicals. The proposal states that the arrangement of financing political parties is the fulfillment of one of the government's promises; then, establishing an important pillar of the fight against corruption in line with the government's strategy. These days we're reading in every newspaper charges against the government, and that's just about corruption, even offering evidence. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia does not oblige you, instead of respecting it until you bring others, you use the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and thus guaranteed rights and freedoms. Also forbid political parties to refrain from membership of their members. Are we going to conduct an election campaign to report to the government of the Republic of Serbia and Minister Djelic? Are we going to deliver to the government what we're planning and how we're going to talk about her work in election campaigns? Your goal is very perfidious. You gentlemen want to disable political opponents, and you don't choose funds. Why don't you pass the first law on political parties, and then we'll only arrange a sphere of funding for political parties? How many giro accounts does it take to open a community board? Should it also be given the most trivial means to immediately inform Bozidar Djelic and the government? Mr. Minister, how do you see the financing of a group of citizens? We had a pre-election campaign where Miroljub Labus was in front of a group of citizens and the question is how much he had in the budget and from who. You spoke about your private life on a RTS show yesterday, and that doesn't interest the citizens of Serbia, whether you're ahead of a divorce or not, they're interested in your state function. That's why this popular song is going -- don't let these people break us up. This law is the result of the state of your spirit, and it's a loser, and your fear of losing power makes you make these criminal laws. Since this parliament's calls, as a folk MP of the Serbian Radical Party, I face only restrictions on the rights of MPs, representatives of the people, what rights and rules of the game you bring into political life and the sphere of funding of political parties. You have no interest in political life - Paja Duck has been assigned by the European Union, you are introducing a dictatorship, you are choking all rights and freedoms and that is a sign that your end is completely certain. Mr. Djelic, the wormy apple does not wait for the storm, it is the first breeze, and your government just looks like a wormy apple to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-15-0.u32630	The word has been made by MP Petar Cvetkovic. He's not there. National MP Golub Rajic, a Socialist Party of Serbia parliamentary group. We've got five minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-15-0.u32631	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, on the agenda of the 12th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia called upon by the government's request is the draft law on the financing of political parties, by emergency procedure. The urgency is explained by creating an appropriate legal framework for the financing of political parties, which is important for the work of state authorities and organisations. It's not a strange way of making an appointment, a time of consideration, and even an urgency, we're used to it under this democratic authority. But at the end of May, we also received a proposal for a bill on political parties. So isn't it more logical that he was first adopted, and then the law on the financing of political parties that take effect on the eighth day since the day of publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia", and will apply from 1 January 2004? Is this on the agenda for an emergency procedure because of some pressure? Perhaps because of Lajan's report by the international crisis group, where some financial powers finance some parties, or through this law of the ruling DOS party, want to provide themselves with some start-up advantages before the election? The proposed law should determine the source, height and purpose of funding the work of registered political parties, as well as the election campaign for the selection of MPs, i.e. the committee, the President of the Republic and the Mayor, and make this funding transparent and accessible to the public. It is probably good that the law will prevent the financing of political parties from suspicious sources that are unacceptable and where abuses are common. The law also provides for the control of income and financial business, as well as criminal provisions for non-compliance with legal provisions, in order to prevent abuses in the collection and availability of funds. In this law, it is probably the most interesting Article 4 which prescribes the volume of funds that can be authorised from public sources and cannot be greater than 0.15% of the Republic's budget, of 0.1% of the unit's territorial autonomy budget, or 0.1% of the local self-government unit budget. The finance ministry, i.e. other competent authorities, allocate the funds at 30% equal to all parliamentary parties, means MPs and committees, while 70% of these funds are allocated to a relatively large number of MPs, or committee members. The question is whether this proposal is the most just and whether it will suit anyone. The question is whether a majority or proportional electoral system will be applied, or combined. The Socialists believe it is good that political parties will receive funds from the budget, but that they should be deployed on the basis of votes received and given mandates by voters. We also think that the percentages of funds from public sources, which are provided to finance the work of a political party whose candidates have been elected, are not enough and we think that the percentage from the republican budget should be increased from 0.15% to 0.5%, and when it comes to local budgets from 0.1% to 0.3%. Also in Article 5, which regulates the financing of the regular work of the political party in item 4, there is no need to distinguish between the contributions of natural and legal persons, because a natural person as the owner of the company can always make his contribution to the company. The 10 average earnings proposal in one calendar year in the Republic of Serbia is too small and this is necessary to increase more times. The parties should be allowed to acquire property and to benefit from ownership and should not be interested in the state to limit the use of assets, but rather to the contrary. Article 6 shall not specify in such detail which material-financial incomes are prohibited. It needs to be more precise and defined. The government proposed this large-scale member, probably bringing up all sources of funding while DOS members were in opposition, so they remembered where all the money came from, and now it should be banned, because they are in power and can be financed differently. It should not be limited to 20% or to the amount of funds from private sources that the political party can hire to run an election campaign. What if someone collects more, and those funds to fund the election campaign will be in an open account for these needs and cannot be used for others, except that, after the end, the surplus will be transferred to the political party's permanent account. Political parties regulate internal control of financial operations by statutes, determine the responsible persons for financing, keeping books, and that's fine. However, is it okay for reporters to submit financial reports to the Finance Committee, which, as a congregation body, does not have the authority? Is it not better to do so by other authorised state authorities for the processing of financial offences, while political parties report on property, shown by kind, height and origin, should be delivered to the National Assembly. I think the financial business reports are being published in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia" on the cost of the state, not the cost of the political party. It is also not common in our legal system to leave in transitional and final provisions the provisions of some members of the old law, which has the same name and whether it was better for those members, and here members of 13 and 14, to be incorporated into a new law, or to be confused. Finally, the draft law, which has 25 members, under which the adoption of the financing of parliamentary political parties will be the obligation of the state, needs to be further amended if it is to be one of the pillars in the fight against corruption and to make everything, as you often say, transparent and normalise financial flows and their relationship with parties and politics.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-15-0.u32632	I'll see you tomorrow. Have a good one.
