ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-24-0.u31567	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS has tabled an amendment to Article 11. With this amendment, we ask that points 3 and 4 be deleted. We think they're too high. First of all, we believe that this law, and also this member, as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, wants most of the responsibility for possible riots in sports events, competitions, transferred to the organisers. Of course, the organiser carries part of the responsibility, however, most of the responsibility if any riots occur, some of the unwanted consequences of sports competitions are primarily carried by the MUP. Of course, the organiser is obliged to inform the IPO and other competent authorities of the assessment of the increased risk sports events and, within the meaning of Article 11, to notify them. However, we believe that the surplus point 3) which says that the organiser of the competition should co-operate with the Ministry for acting on orders relating to public order and peace at a sports event, because by notifying itself not later than 48 hours before the launch of the event, the organiser continues to have an obligation to act on all MIP orders from that point on; from the moment when the organizer of the sport competition, the events inform the Ministry practically most of the responsibility is transferred from himself to the MUP. As a state authority, the MUP cannot transfer the blame for any disturbances from itself to the sports competition organizer, because the organizer of sports events and competitions has no possibility of using physical force over possible offenders to prevent incidents, riots in sports competitions. We witnessed it on our premises, mostly the riots at football games, and then in basketball, and the freshest example of the riots in sports competitions is what happened two weeks ago or so. Ten days in Slovenia. No one can convince me that this game organizer is most responsible, that he is responsible for what was happening there. If the MUP, as an authority of the state dealing with the maintenance and preservation of public order and peace, is unable to even assess what an increased risk sports event is and how many officers it takes to prevent any disturbances, it certainly cannot do so by the organizer of the sport competition. We also believe, and one of the amendments we have suggested, that fans' clubs should not be introduced into the law, that they should simply not insist on the formation and organisation of fans in clubs. We also believe that this point 4) that insists on contacts between fans' clubs and administrations, i.e. the organizers of sports competitions, should be deleted, because this is a while ago and we have witnessed that the administrations of certain clubs come into conflict with fans' clubs, especially when the results of these clubs are weak, when there is a dissatisfaction of fans due to the results of sports clubs, to dissatisfaction with the management, so in these circumstances it is absurd and it is impossible for clubs to achieve any co-operation with fans' clubs.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-24-0.u31568	Anybody else answer for a word? Here's a word from MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-24-0.u31569	And with this amendment, the SRS is trying to convince the promoter that this bill is really pointless. It is pointless for one simple reason: it is impossible with one text of the bill, which would refer to top sports collectives and clubs, which draw public attention, where their games are attended by a large number of viewers, means with rules that would apply to these sports clubs, to arrange in a general way every sports competition. We also point to another senselessness: if, according to this proposal, the Ministry of Law is the only authority that oversees the implementation of this law, it is illogical and contrary to the legal system of the Republic of Serbia that the organiser is working together with those who oversee the work of the sports collective when it comes to the organisation of a sports competition. And that's exactly at point 3 of Article 11, whose erasure we're proposing with this amendment. So, there is no co-operation, but there is a relationship between authority and subordination, that is, the organiser is obliged to act on orders, measures and all requirements of the sole authority, which is the MUP, the authority responsible for ensuring public order and peace at sports sites. As for point 4 of Article 11, we also suggest that it be deleted, because in these high-risk matches and competitions the organiser is forced to achieve full co-operation with sports club fans who are the organizer and host of some sports encounter, competition or sports match. I'm saying this for one simple reason -- if you look at these elite sports clubs of ours, so they have a few kinds of fans in Belgrade; even some clubs, although fans of the same club, are mutually excluded and conflicted. Very often it happens to form, allegedly, a team fan club, without actually being fans of the team, but fans of some competing team. That would be according to that system -- why would a good player play in some opposing club and fast, say, goals, better this stronger sports club buys it and put it on a spare bench, so he doesn't play for the opposing team. It's the same with the fans' clubs. Point 4 of this article is inappropriately obliged by the organiser of the sport competition to achieve full co-operation with clubs, and the organiser has absolutely no influence on the organisation, existence, functioning of the fan club. We and this amendment follow our previous amendments to which we only want things to be done in a more objective way, so that in practice there will be no problem, because these terms at point 3) and point 4) - "to achieve full co-operation", the one applying this law can very arbitraryly interpret and say - because of the absence of co-operation, the organiser did not act on the orders of the MUP concerning public security. It's absurd. If the ministry has given some security orders to organise the competition and security of all participants, then there is no co-operation, but action by order, execution of a specific order. These arbitrary formulations practically solve nothing, but create positions for different interpretations. Why don't you say someone consciously causes conflicts in our sports competitions.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-24-0.u31570	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? The word has a minister of justice, Mr Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-24-0.u31571	Dear Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People, distinguished guests, I am practically changing my colleague Dusan Mihajlovic. I would like to say on behalf of the Government what amendments the Government accepts: Amendment to the Second National MP of Neboja Lekovic; Amendment to Article 3(1) of the National MP Neboja Leković; Amendment to Article 7(1) of Neboja Leković; Amendment to Article 7(1) to that amendment, which is recorded, MPs Vladimir Dobrosavljević, Dragan Šormaz and Vukosav Tomasevic; Amendment to Article 15, position of the 3rd National MP Neboja Lekovic and amendment to Article 23(1). People's MPs Vladimir Dobrosavljevic, Dragan Shormaz and Vukosav Tomasevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-24-0.u31572	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? The breach of the Rules of Procedure, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group, MP Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-24-0.u31573	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, Madam Chairman, I wanted to remind you that on Wednesday, I asked the Administrative Committee to declare the violation of the Rules of Procedure by the then-chaired, or National Assembly President Natasa Micic, referring to members 101, 109 and Article 28, and to give her the measure set out in Article 104(2) because she did not use her authority and was unable to maintain order at the session, which is why Minister Batic had to leave the session. The Management Board, in accordance with its Rules of Procedure, had to declare itself within 24 hours. It's been 140 hours. I know you had a lot of work to do, that you were in full shape yesterday while working both assembly committees in front of TV cameras, but it is your duty to coordinate the work of the board and order the committee to make a statement as to whether Natasa Micic had hurt the Rules of Procedure by not even calling the MPs to listen, which, according to the SRS MPs, was in some way injured by the moral integrity of the minister in the Serbian government. And that's when I told you it was a principled position of the SRS, arguing that every speaker is respected, especially if he's a minister, because we have experience, especially us from the SRS, that we are under really difficult conditions forced here to work day and day. The MPs do other things, you also chat behind our backs, so it's very difficult to keep a focus on this speaker in these conditions. It would be nice for the Administrative Board to take that position, and it would have been even nicer if the chairman of the National Assembly had taken his place with you and allowed you to give the disfellowshipping measure from the meeting of the President of the National Assembly, because it was obvious that that day, although otherwise, he was unable to maintain order in this hall and to hold meetings of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-24-0.u31574	Invoking the provisions of the Rules of Procedure should work consistently. The President of the National Assembly, under Article 96, who says that he calls on the Administrative Board to make a decision within 24 hours, to maintain a good atmosphere in the Assembly, regardless of what is known to all the high-level MPs in this assembly, says: "According to the Rules of Procedure, the decisions of the National Assembly and the president of the National Assembly are not considered to be made on the basis of the discretionary powers provided for in this Rules of Procedure." So she called the Management Board. It is a provision to which it is mandatory and the Administrative Board will hold a session, regardless of all of us who follow the contents of this Rules of Procedure know that it is not an obligation and the content of the work, but the session will be held and you will be informed. The word has a representative of the government, Minister Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-24-0.u31575	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I want to thank Mrs Gordani Pop-Lazic for this intervention, but I also want to apologize to Parliament for leaving Parliament's session on that occasion. Simply, the general ambience was like this, I spent four or five hours here waiting for the session to begin, tried several times to speak, and I failed. I didn't see at that moment a different way. However, by respecting Parliament's dignity as the highest home, I apologize once again for my gesture.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-24-0.u31576	Do any of the other authorised participants in the amendment debate on Article 11 want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Colic. The government proposes that the amendment be rejected, the Defence and Security Committee did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The amendmentr wants a word. The word is made by MP Dragan Colic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-24-0.u31577	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment, in front of the SRS parliamentary group, to the draft law on the prevention of violence and misbehaving in sports events, in which I request that Article 12 be held. The bill is deleted. Article 12. The draft law on the prevention of violence and misbehavior in sport regulations contains: "The organizer is obliged to ensure that, before the start, during the duration of and after the completion of the sport event, the separation of groups of visiting fans by selling tickets at separate and special sales venues; ensure that only tickets for sitting places are released, i.e. the number of standing tickets, which, depending on the capacity of the sports facility, do not endanger the safety of participants in the sports event; achieve co-operation with sports organisations - clubs that participate in the sports event of ticket sales for their fans; determine special entrances, exits and part of theatre for groups of guest fans, if their organised arrival or arrival is expected in a large number; provide through the programme of sports events or other means of informing viewers of correct behaviour". My opinion is that this bill does not need to be unseriously approached, because the consequences in practice can be catastrophic. Unfortunately, we've had several opportunities in sports events and major football games to have tragic consequences, and we can remember the unfortunate Ace Radovic in the party "Partizan" - "Red Star", when from the southern part of the stands the rocket and the young fan "Red Star" was tragically killed. I don't know how the promoter could provide through a program of sports events or other means of information encouraging viewers to behave properly. It reminds me little of this student parliament in the draft law on the basis of a system of education and education. It doesn't sound logical to me, not at all possible, and this fan behavior should contain an entire training complex, an education, from small legs to more mature days. What the Serbian Radical Party is against is the involvement of politics in the boards of sports clubs. I have already cited Nebojsa Lekovic as taking a significant place in the Serbia-Montenegro Football Alliance, that Goran Vesic is taking a place at the Red Star Basketball Club, while the Serbian Radical Party believes politics should not interfere with sports, as the existence of clubs is based on numerous violations of the law, and the Serbian Radical Party does not want to participate in this.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-24-0.u31578	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-24-0.u31579	With this amendment, we tried to suggest that we point to some illogicalities. If one law is already passed, and if these members should be a binding rule of conduct, then it is certain that Article 12 is impossible to apply in all sports events, and it is so well-conceived that it represents a binding norm for all the organizers of sports competitions. Moreover, I would draw attention to the provision of Article 21(1), paragraph 8, where it is prescribed that unless the organiser fulfils these obligations under Article 12, he commits an offence, which is subject to a fine of 200,000 to 400,000 dinars. This law applies to all sports clubs and all sports competitions, starting with the school league, the village leagues, some zones, interstates, to the first and these elite leagues. It is impossible to be the exact same conditions for the event of sports events as regards the safety of participants in a stadium in a village - which has a corn field within five or six meters by the field, and on the opposite side with wheat - and "Marakani" or JNA stadium. The provision of Article 12 prescribed obligations for high-risk matches, so the football match between the two neighbouring villages, which for 50 years have some rivalry, is also a high-risk game. How can the organizer put up fences, special places to sell tickets to different fans, so there's no conflict? I think it is much better and more correct, given that sports alliances have their binding rules for maintaining the competition and under these rules certain rules concerning the minimum security and safety of participants in the sports event, that it is left to sports collectives and the Ministry to resolve depending on the type of sports competition, the location where the sports competition is held, who are participants, what are the number of visitors, etc. In this way, as article 12 is written, it means that a simple police officer from one village when he is in another village at a game, the watchman can write an objection, or a request to carry out a violation procedure against a sports collective, to punish between 200,000 and 400,000 dinars, and that money in this competition is a minor annual budget of a rural team, thus practically closing a sports collective and creating a new problem. It is simply this law that contains so many members who are swarming with open opportunities for abuse. Who are they giving this opportunity to? First of all, the Ministry of the Interior, because it controls the application of this law. The promoter had to take care of this, because as article 12 is written, it practically means that only one who jumps seven metres up can enter the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. An impossible condition has been set. That's how the conditions and the organizers of sports events were set. The law can't write something that's impossible. Only Radoman Bozovic could do it with 70 hands - the country could be fourth. Even here every day we hear something impossible. Get out of the law. There's something wrong with the law. There are sports alliances, so it's known that for this rank of the stadium contest it should look like that, locker rooms so, visiting teams, fans where they should be, etc. and, under these circumstances, give measures to ensure the safety of citizens in that game and the safety of participants, but not according to "Star" and "Partizan", according to their facilities, their rank of competition, to move those rules to sports clubs. God forbid it still turns out that every country club should have a camera to shoot fans. Don't put anything impossible, because if you put it impossible, there's an installed possibility of abuse by the one who enforces this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-24-0.u31580	The word has a minister of justice in the government of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-24-0.u31581	One brief intervention. It is part of Article 12 of the third law that we are discussing, and it concerns the measures taken in sports events of increased risk. What are high-risk sports events are determined by sports alliances, and not by the police, regardless of the level of competition. Therefore, what the honourable MP, Mr Krasic, said would stand if it did not refer to an increased risk event, and whether the increased risk is determined by the competent sports alliance.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-24-0.u31582	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Joca Arsic and Zivanko Radovanchev. The government proposes that the amendment be rejected, the Defence and Security Committee did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by MP Joca Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-24-0.u31583	Dear colleagues and colleagues, as the chairman announced, Zivanko Radovanchev and I together, on behalf of the SPS, submitted an amendment to delete Article 13. Let me just remind you of what article 13. At sports events, the organizer is obliged to ensure that one natural person cannot buy more than five tickets for a sports event and in the other part of that member says - the organizer is obliged to, in collaboration with sports clubs that participate in sports performances and clubs of their fans, provide records of the identity of the persons who sell the tickets, i.e. through fans’ clubs, as well as to provide insight into that record to the authorised person of the Ministry. We think that this procedure is very complicated, that it can lead to problems with the distribution of tickets, and the very first position of this member does not provide any security. You know, someone can show up five or ten times and buy five tickets, and that doesn't mean anything. That particular fact that he can't buy more than five tickets doesn't mean anything, if someone shows up ten or more times, provided he's not asked for a ID card and doesn't keep a record of these people buying five tickets. I think that at least this first attitude, if we don't accept this proposal to completely delete it, should have been deleted, because it's really illogical, and it won't have an effect -- that one natural person can buy five tickets. I think it's pointless, because a group of kids can get together and buy five-by-five, make it lower and make it a bigger problem, a bigger crowd and a bigger mess than it's going to be, if this whole member of ours isn't accepted, if there's a record being kept. We don't think that's the most complete thing, but still, when they buy organized tickets, you can know which fans' clubs they give tickets for. So that's the responsibility of fans' clubs, because they buy together. This first attitude I think is really pointless and I pray that we have an understanding of this amendment of ours. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-24-0.u31584	The word has a minister of justice in the government of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-24-0.u31585	On behalf of the Government, as an authorised representative of the motionor, I accept that the first position of Article 13 is deleted, because it seems to me to be in the process of real life. I don't know how much administration should be provided for those faces to be identified. You can't ask for an ID when he buys tickets to sports events. I think that's rational and acceptable.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-24-0.u31586	I find that on behalf of the promoter, the minister of justice accepted the amendment to the members of the 13th People's MPs Joce Arsic and Zivanko Radovanchev. Am I right? (Vladan Batic: It is an identical amendment to Plužarevic. ) The amendment of the MPs of the People's Republic of Joce Arsic implies the expropriation of the entire article 13, and the amendment of MP Vitomir Plužarevic only the position 1. (Joca Arsic: Partly accepted this one and this one fully. () Unfortunately, the Assembly does not mean a partial acceptance of the amendment. It is important that the good will of the Proposer be understood. Here you are, Minister, Mr Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-24-0.u31587	The authentic amendment was submitted by Mr. Plužarevic, so I accept that amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-24-0.u31588	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 13 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. On behalf of the promoter, Minister Vladan Batic accepted this amendment, the Defence and Security Committee is not and the Legislative Committee is not, so that the amendment will be voted on in the voting day. The 14th amendment was submitted by MPs Nebojsa Lekovic, Zlatan Jovanovic and together Branko Ružic, Djura Lazic and Dragan Jovanovic. The government proposes that this amendment be rejected, the Defence and Security Committee does not accept it, the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. On behalf of the applicants for the amendment, if you please, according to the Rules of Procedure of Rule 137, the applicant of the amendment would have to be the first to submit, but I suppose intervention would be useful. National MP Zlatan Jovanovic, as the applicant for the amendment. Respecting Article 137, without doubting the useful contribution the minister would make...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-24-0.u31589	Ladies and gentlemen, I don't know why the minister changed his mind about the pay phone, but this is a law on preventing violence and misbehaving at sports events, and what's illogical is that they didn't have a legislator here to explain this bill at the beginning. Minister Mihajlovic probably has more to do than come to this home, to address the MPs, to explain and convince MPs that this law is good, that MPs accept it. It's probably still rolling with that saber, not knowing that saber isn't going to Europe, that the Turks... (President: National MP, please speak about the content of your amendment and respect the contents of your speech for the National Assembly. It is unacceptable that in the first sentence, after a clear explanation that the minister has neither changed his mind nor shown disrespect, and I, as chairman, respect the Rules of Procedure and I give you my word, do not speak of the content of the amendments and that you present false facts. Please consider the content of the amendment. )......................................................................................................... A couple of times they tried to do it, so they didn't make it. As far as the law itself is concerned, what is not logical in this law is the status of the Ministry of the Interior, i.e. the role of the MUP in sports events, i.e. the provision of sports events and events. Namely, here in Article 8, I have to go back a little bit to Article 8, and it requires an organizer of sports events to provide a suitable directorial service or to hire a legal person or entrepreneur to do physical security work. I ask, here is government official Mr. Batic, whether small clubs will be able to hold this financially, because the physical security of private entrepreneurs or other legal entities costs enormously. Like the Sartide Red Star game in Smederev is a high-risk game. Probably other games of smaller clubs with big clubs in small towns will be high-risk games. Will these small small-town clubs, which are extremely poor, hold on financially, provide the directorial services to adequately prevent any problems at these events. As for Article 14, this Article 14 refers to high-risk events, or events, and the following stands here - on the day of the sports event of the increased risk of tickets, as a rule, cannot be sold at the sports facility where the sports event is held, or in its immediate vicinity, but only in special sales places. An approval for the designation of sales positions referred to in Article 1 shall be granted by the Ministry. Let me ask you -- how are we going to secure order in these sales places, special, which the Ministry determines, if we know that there are multiple cash registers here, more space, that it's easier to secure, and now we're moving tickets out of town that day? How are we going to secure the sale of tickets, or order in those sales places in the city, if we can't do it in the stadium itself, and we all know that our viewers, the audience, usually buy tickets on the day of the game. It is also unclear why the Ministry of Interior, which under this law only has a supervisory function, determines the sales venues. If you put everything on the organizer, if he is obliged to provide the sport event itself, to provide the directorial service, to set up sales places, why he does not set up sales places and not provide sales places that day, for games of increased risk. Why is the Ministry doing this now? What is unclear, as far as the full law is concerned, is that the largest number of amendments to this bill has just been submitted by MP Nebojsa Lekovic, a member of the same political organisation, or party...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-24-0.u31590	Members of the Parliament, I ask you to respect the Rules of Procedure and not to present qualifications or disqualifications on any other subject of the amendment, which is the parliamentary right of every MP in the Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-24-0.u31591	Mrs. Komic, I don't know what to talk about, and I haven't offended anyone, I've said the fact, and the fact is that Nebojsa Lekovic has submitted the most amendments here. The fact is that Nebojsa Lekovic belongs to New Democracy or as they are already called, Liberals of Serbia, to which Minister Mihajlovic also belongs...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-24-0.u31592	People's MP, I give you a warning for not following a business order...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-24-0.u31593	The fact is that today Minister Batic has brought here...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-24-0.u31594	Please talk about the content of the amendment. People's MP, you are required by the Rules of Procedure that when you are interrupted by the Chairman, you listen to the objection he has and that you behave accordingly. Thank you. Do any of the applicants of the SPS amendment want a word? The word has the People's MP Đura Lazic. (Gordana Pop-Lazic, from the place: Look here, Krasic answered the word first. ) Article 137, I reply to the submission of the Parliament of the People of Gordana Pop-Lazic, Article 137, implies that the words are first received by the applicants of the amendments, regardless of whether they are in the same text. Amendment applicants to Article 14 are Nebojsa Lekovic, Zlatan Jovanovic, who received the word precisely because, I suppose, on behalf of a group of MPs, MP Djura Lazic; later, a MP, as an authorised representative or president of the parliamentary group. I give the People's MP Gordani Pop-Lazic a warning about the rejection and disrespect of the Rules of Procedure. (Gardana Pop-Lazic, from the scene: Thank you. People's MP Djuro Lazic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-24-0.u31595	The Honored Presidency, Mr. Minister, distinguished fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament, on behalf of the SPS Parliament Club with counterparts Ruzic and Jovanovic, I have tabled an amendment to Article 14 of the proposed law. I would ask you to listen and remind yourself, Article 14 of the proposed law provides: On the day of the sports event, the increased ticket risk cannot be sold as a rule in a sports facility where a sports event is held or in its immediate vicinity, but only in special sales places. An approval for the designation of sales positions referred to in Article 1 shall be granted by the Ministry. We suggest that this member be completely deleted. If, on the one hand, the legislator or the Ministry makes a commitment to clubs that organise such sports events to lead order in stadiums and so on, why does it take them away from selling tickets in sales places? If the people of the Ministry think that way, if they determine a special place to solve the problem, I don't think they will. On the contrary, there will be bigger problems and bigger crowds in other places instead of stadiums. Mr. Minister, you're a fan like me and many others, and sports clubs are obliged to organise ticket sales as planned. If there are problems, there are directors at the stadiums, and if necessary members of the MUP, to regulate ticket sales at sales sites in sports clubs. I think this member needs to be deleted, and that way we'd avoid some additional problems. Please, in the interest of order and giving authority and retaining the authority of sports clubs that are otherwise responsible for allowing them to sell tickets at the stadiums around the stadium, or sports facilities.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-24-0.u31596	The word has been issued by MP Zoran Krasic, an authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-24-0.u31597	The SRS amendment to Article 14 is a practical continuation of the previous amendments. I would draw attention to the Government's representative, he was not present on the first day of the National Assembly meeting when this item was on the agenda, when amendments to Article 7. It's a bill of law. At that time, it was said in the discussion here that the sports alliance, organisations and sports clubs, i.e. clubs, and I would draw attention to point 5), were obliged to regulate sports rules from their jurisdiction which are considered high-risk. We have suggested an amendment to be said - when considered highly risky. I would like to draw attention to Article 11. In Article 11(1), point 1) says - domestic and international sports events of greater competition importance. The position of the 2nd member who says - it is governed by sports alliances. Article 12 refers practically to all of this as referred to in Article 11(1), point (2) and (3). There's an increased risk. There are clubs that are obliged to write it, not sports alliances. For sports alliances, it is stated that this is only the situation referred to in Article 11(1). Now we move on to Article 14. And he is the continuation of that logic that our amendments follow. You've given something here that's practically impossible. First of all, attitude two is impossible. How can the MUP determine the points of sale in Article 1 of this Article? So, big sports clubs whose games, as a rule, each other, are high-risk third, besides regular cash registers inside a sports facility should have spare cash registers at 100, 200, 300, 500, or who knows how many meters, by the Ministry's decision, away from a sports facility. So, until the day of maintenance, the cash registers work both in the city and in the facility, and on the day of maintenance, the cash registers work. If, say, the object "Pionir" is 100 meters away, there is no other object. So, there's some sort of assembly facility to be set up. If the MUP determines where an object is to be set, then the City Assembly and its competent inspections can provide solutions for removing an object that has been set up under the mandate of the MUP, because it is impossible to sell it on the street. We amendments only point to the futility, the inability to implement this law. We don't dispute the need to settle this. We do not dispute the possibility that this is selectively arranged depending on the level of the competition, on the importance of the game, on the localities etc. We don't argue. We dispute the legal inability of these provisions you have installed. My predecessor, Mr. Jovanovic, pointed out these material reasons, the essential reasons why what is stated in attitude 1. It's better, I guess, at these larger sports facilities at three or four registers to make order and buy those tickets than 10-15 temporary facilities to make it 100, 200, 300 or 500 meters from the facility, where hooligans can make what they're making. It's harder for the police to answer for public order and peace. Besides, is that measure so important that it has to be at the level of legal norm? Is she that important? I know that an authorised representative of the Serbian Government's proposal today is difficult to talk about, man wasn't the first time we talked about Article 7. What you just said about article 12 isn't that. What you're going to say about article 14. It's not that. No one slows down good intentions. This way this thing can't be arranged, because as it's been formulated, it gives the police the authority to always make a problem out of every sports competition, from every sports game, to prescribe or issue some abnormal warrants that are simply unfulfilled. This is one of those that can't be fulfilled. Besides, he's indisposed. If the aim of the law is to get people out of the field of sports, it is likely that this goal will be achieved by such a bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-24-0.u31598	The word has the minister of justice of the government of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-24-0.u31599	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I don't know how to legally-technically arrange this, can it be through the competent...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-24-0.u31600	Please turn off your cell phones during the session. It's elemental rudeness and disrespect together in the O.R. where we're sitting, whatever the cell phone is. Excuse me, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-24-0.u31601	So, I think the board of directors could have come up with a solution. This is what I'm saying as a man who goes to games, so I have a long and rich experience in this regard. So, I find it rational that Article 1 item 14 is changed and that on the day of the sports event, the increased risk of tickets cannot be sold in a sports facility where sports events are held, nor in its immediate vicinity, one hour before the start of the game then crowds and chaos are created - but only in special sales places, which will determine the organizer of the business, and then Article 14. would be deleted. It's determined by the Ministry of the Interior. People need to know in advance where they're going to buy tickets to sports events. I don't know how to legally - technically arrange this, only through the parent board.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-24-0.u31602	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nebojsa Lekovic. The proposer's representative accepted the amendment. The government proposes that this amendment be rejected. The Committee on Defence and Security has adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. This amendment becomes an integral part of the Bill's proposal, given that it has been accepted by the Committee and by the Proposer. The same Article of the 15th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Culibrk and Djura Lazic. The government proposes that the amendment be rejected, the Defence and Security Committee did not accept it, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. On behalf of the applicants, the amendment has the word Đura Lazic's MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-24-0.u31603	Dear Presidency, Mr Minister, fellow Members of the People's Parliament, on behalf of Article 15. The bill of law of his colleague Lekovic spoke a lot in the principle debate, besides the fact that many of our sports fields, and objects do not meet European standards. We tried with colleague Mark Culibrk to propose some changes to this member, i.e. to delete points 2), 9, 11) and 12). Point 2) says the organiser is obliged to hang "the appropriate fences to prevent viewers from entering the sports field", closed sports halls have no fences between theatres, and the terrain and open stadiums are a trend in the world to remove fences. That's exactly what counterpart Lekovic was talking about, however, knowing our Balkan mentality, I think we need to keep this provision, because in these conditions it's hard to organise a event without a separate audience from the playground, from the terrain. I think point 9 is rigorous, because it's not precise enough. An appropriate number of male and female wet knots is required in all parts of the theatre. Why determine that? That's understood. Now it is not determined how much, depending on the capacity of the facility, on the number of viewers. I think this point is unnecessary. Point 11 provides for a public hearing system. Many stadiums within the country do not have such equipment and opportunities to organize such quality announcements. I especially think about these local leagues and things like that. So this point shouldn't stand in this article either. Also, I don't think they have any conditions regarding electrical power. I mean clubs in the interior, in these zone leagues and so on, so this bill shouldn't oblige those clubs that barely survive to do it besides security. We all know how much these costs are for small clubs in the interior, to survive, to develop that young man, to maintain a sports spirit, to gather young people, and to burden them further, to commit to provide a big sound equipment, I think it's illogical, and that's why we suggested that this point be deleted.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-24-0.u31604	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Blazic. The government proposes that this amendment be rejected, the Defence and Security Committee did not accept it, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. The word is made by the MP Branislav Blazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-24-0.u31605	Ladies and gentlemen, in front of the Serbian Radical Party, I have submitted an amendment to be in article 15. - the organizer is obliged to ensure that the sport event of increased risk is held at a sports facility that has and then lists 12 points here - points 2), 5) and 7 are deleted. I'm going to explain the logic that makes me want these dots deleted, because they really don't fit. We must keep in mind that many events, from a federal match, can be considered to be at increased risk or to be declared by such an alliance, and then at point 2) we should have adequate fences to prevent viewers from entering sports fields. Gentlemen, many football or sports teams have no shoes for those young men, no balls, no nets, no money, and we here oblige them to build fences for sports grounds. It's just impossible. If now the organizer, to avoid sanctions under this member of the law, takes two rural clubs to a town to play football or play a sports event, then these costs are so great that they won't be able to implement it. Point 5 mentions appropriate seats which cannot be detached only by using physical strength. This is where the billing officer put away one great stupidity, because what that means is a seat that can't get away. This means that all seats are concrete, and Europe has obliged football teams or other sports teams to have their seats by exact number, with plastic coasters, which should serve some culture of life. What does it mean to detach some seats? Especially in some rural sports clubs, viewers bring their chairs to watch games, not to be obliged by us to have concrete seats that can't be detached. Point 7 is even funnier. This is about technical equipment for threatening and recording the behaviour of viewers on sports facilities. In some former communist time, in an earlier communist government, it was a follow-up, but it was followed by people. They were hiding behind some trees, in front of churches or somewhere, and they were following, writing down some people coming, leaving; they were in charge of tracking and recording, and now probably this government is a little sophisticated, she's proposing technical equipment, cameras at country clubs, to film viewers what they're doing. All in some function of recording, tracking, again we entered a story that is being conducted not only in life, in a state among politicians, but even among the viewers at sports events. Therefore, technical equipment that is extremely expensive will not be able to provide far larger sports clubs. The funniest of all is what it says - in the position of the 4th terms of the article's position, it is necessary to perform the organizer of other sports events. So it's not just about the increased risk. Now it's all about all the other sports events and games where you should have all this. That, believe me, there's no one to pay. This is unrealistic, this is illogical. There was just a few words here about Europe seeking to keep the viewers in touch with the players. That's right. They don't make cages, they don't make any fences in the cage sense that these players play gladiators there. It is the fact that Europe is seeking to sanction large penalties for the violations committed on sports grounds. That's what the English have done: The great punishments have forced the viewers not to make circuses, scandals, what they've done. Otherwise, if you directly punish the organizers and impose such conditions, which he cannot meet, you will not get either. So I think these three points should be deleted, isolated, that it's so logical because they're simply not life-like, they're not possible. They're not viable to life.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-24-0.u31606	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-24-0.u31607	Of course, with this amendment, we are simply drawing attention to the motion that we return this law, to arrange it a little bit, to adapt it not only to our conditions in which sports collectives are located but also to our opportunities, and to God and to legal and legal regulation of this law. Here, you see, I just tried to point out that all these members after article 11, practically have their own organic relationship in Article 10. - what an increased risk sports performances are. You saw earlier, I explained, what stands in point 1st point 2) and 3) - "sports events where a large number of viewers or fans of guest clubs are expected to attend." And, secondly, it means "other sports events when special circumstances suggest that violence and misbehave of viewers can occur." Well, no matter where it is held, whether in the village, whether in Belgrade, whether at a school or anywhere where a competition is held or organised, it is a event, i.e. A high-risk game. So, what does our proposer suggest? He suggests what we believe simply must not remain in attitude 1. - the organizer is obliged to ensure that an increased risk sports event is held at a sports facility that has adequate fences to prevent viewers from entering the sports field. We think this is given inextricably and unnecessarily. Further, proper seats. Mr. Blazic explained to you the problem of the seat. Or the camera thing. In accordance with Article 15(2), some obligations shall be excluded, above all, from points 1, 3, 6), 7) and 10), but all other obligations for each other's competition remain, for any other sport event, which apparently small clubs cannot meet. And, of course, at the end of the day, it remains point 3. I don't know who put it together, if he knows what he wrote. It says - closer to the conditions of attitude 1. (how the fence should look, etc.) and their fulfillment is determined by the competent sports alliance, so it says - with the previous opinion of the ministry responsible for sports affairs and the agreement of the MUP. Come on, they prescribe conditions, so it takes the consent and the opinion of these others, to understand that, but that the sports alliance is making a decision that realizes that a sports club meets the conditions of its object and that the solution to the fulfillment of the conditions gives consent and gives an opinion to another ministry, so it's impossible to execute. Thousands and thousands of sports collectives exist, different ranks, and there is no such legal and logical difference here, so to say, the conditions prescribed by the sports alliance, opinion can give, and consent, the ministry responsible for internal affairs. But the fulfillment of the conditions at a specific sports facility is determined by a competent sports alliance. Here's everything within one bet, It will be interpreted as who arrives, given that we have human resources in the ministries and all the institutions, and we can only expect something radical in our application. So, pull this bill and remove these differences when you put the country club and the Red Star in the same basket. They can't be in the same basket. Otherwise, as for the earlier proposal that one hour before the start of this high-risk game they do not sell tickets at the sports object's register, it is acceptable. That's one measure of security. Or, write down, withdraw, make an amendment, fix a little law, because it's obvious that this law is the rule of some department in the MUP, which is obviously responsible for causing riots in sports competitions, and then applying repressive measures, that it's recorded by cameras, and that through television, citizens are afraid of our children as if they're hooligans. They're not our kids, hooligans. They were not offered an alternative there to treat their social complexes. It's just that someone's bringing them into this situation. Who's bringing them? Last time I explained on specific examples how the M.O.P. does it. And torches and other things. No conflict has occurred on sports grounds without the knowledge of the MUP, because there is no installed hatred and animal drive in humans, as someone wants to present and convince it.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-24-0.u31608	Anybody else answer for a word? Here you go, Mr. Vladan Batic, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-24-0.u31609	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is overly critical to comment on the measures taken in the sports events of increased risk. It's thought of big games, big stadiums, lots of viewers, so on. If we caricate and think about country games, well, you know, it could be a risk, and when the two teams are recreationally on a field, it means the question of rivalry, the risk exists in life, and when you cross the street. Let's not caricate to that extent. You know what's supposed to be an increased risk. Secondly, something not covered by the amendment is commented, there are no amendments to paragraphs 2 and 3 and the discussion is used to talk about it. In particular, we consider it rational to delete the point 2) through the competent board, with regard to the appropriate fence; I do not know what would be the appropriate fence, five meters, 10 meters high, too, and with respect to appropriate seats that cannot be detached only by using physical force; when something is detachable, it can only be physically forced and not otherwise.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-24-0.u31610	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 16 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The government proposes that this amendment be rejected, the Defence and Security Committee did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. Here's a word from MP Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-24-0.u31611	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, looking back 50 years ago, we haven't had a problem with sports competitions such as the increased risk, as we now want to show - that our stadiums have become the scene of fierce fighting fans. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS, I have tabled an amendment to Article 16 and suggested that paragraph 1 point 2 be deleted. I think this can only be prescribed, but in practice it can't be realized. What will you do if we have in Belgrade "Red Star" and "Partizan", what will we do when we have in the first federal league in Belgrade more clubs, who will be the guest team that will bring all its viewers to the game organised, who will provide buses, taxis, check their luggage, meet them outside the stadium, search them, ban them from drinking three hours before the match is held, etc. I think that's absolutely impossible. The basic task of the internal affairs authority, i.e. The police are to ensure public order and peace, and that is the Internal Affairs Act and foreseen. In addition, if a person commits a crime, it is known to be the one to answer a crime if it causes a person an easy or serious physical injury or deprives a person of life. That's what the Criminal Law says. We believe that police are able to ensure public order and peace, and that, in accordance with the Internal Affairs Act and other regulations governing the work of internal affairs authorities, there is a obligation and there is an opportunity to take appropriate preventive measures, and therefore, if there is a disturbance, not to wait for riots of broad scales; but from the first moment, if there is a disturbance of public order and peace, the internal affairs authorities are obliged to act at the same time to intervene. You saw in Kranj, at the water polo game, that the police were watching what was going on and that only in the end, after the fierce conflicts had taken place, began to intervene and to use the means of coercion. However, if the police intervened in a timely manner, from the first moment, there would be no such disorder. This also applies to our stadiums, especially when it comes to larger clubs, whose games are being attended by more citizens. Then the police with the cavalry, with the dogs, with their other operational forces and their technique, are required to ensure that a public meeting is held in peace and order.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-24-0.u31612	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? The word has been issued by MP Zoran Krasic, an authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-24-0.u31613	And with this amendment, we have tried to influence the motionor to withdraw this bill and fix it in accordance with the discussions that have been heard here and the remarks that have been made. These are serious objections, because this bill is practically inadmissible. Article 16 states: "A visiting sports club that participates in an increased risk sports event... "and for the past half hour, we have finally learned that an increased risk sports event can be held in both the village and downtown Belgrade, on the "Marakana". Simply, the conditions that arise when it comes to two teams of sports, not whether it was decided by a sports alliance or someone put a finger on the head and concluded that it could be high - risk. At point 2) stands - the visiting sports club is obliged to co-operate with the clubs of its fans and participate in organising their arrival at a sports event. Village clubs have no money for food, no equipment, let alone co-operate with some of their fans who would go to guests 20 kilometers away from their place. Big sports clubs have their fans' clubs. Maybe 40% of these clubs are competitive, under someone else's sign, to make trouble for that club. You can see for yourself that sports clubs can't contain, allegedly, their fans' clubs, so it happens at a football game that one club of fans of the team is looking for a board shift, and at the same time another club of fans is confrontation with them, so we have a conflict within the same fans, and now we want to put it into norm. How do we want it? We say: - The guest club is obliged to cooperate. We've already come to the question of emotion - the guest club is obliged to love its fans. They can't be in the norm. Whether someone will cooperate, whether they will not cooperate, depends on the consent of their will. Only in the Law of Marriage and Family do we have that spouses are obliged to be faithful to one another, so each other’s marriage ends in divorce. It's a legal norm that hasn't been able to preserve anything, so we won't even be able to use these formulas: the guest club is obliged to cooperate. The previous few members said, "The organiser is obliged to co-operate with the ministry." That would be the same as "the defendant is obliged to co-operate with the court." It only exists in The Hague and nowhere else, but only in the formulation. In practice, it's something else entirely. So it would be much better, even if the government's representative had come out, if this bill had been withdrawn, arranged to look like a normal regulation that could be applied, which accurately prescribes the obligations of all those in charge of the organisation and security of the people at sports facilities. This is how we get one papazian that is hard to apply, which is hard to understand and from which one who has proposed such a bill benefits the most - to hunt in a blurry, to sail and to represent everyone for the hooligan and for the good fan, for the patriot and for the traitor, for everyone. Undetermined regulation is the worst regulation, because it allows self-will. Self-will is the most dangerous thing right, and the National Assembly must not allow self-will to be installed in this way with an organ that will apply and that maltenes are discreetly decided. It is better that we wrote one member - all sports events are organised and implemented as the Serbian Ministry of the Republic of Serbia imagines. That would be a vote and there wouldn't be any problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-24-0.u31614	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 17 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nebojsa Lekovic. The government proposes that the amendment be rejected, the Defence and Security Committee did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment to be possible. Do any of the authorized participants want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Vladimir Dobrosavljevic, Dragan Šormaz and Vukosav Tomašević. The government proposes that the amendment be rejected, the Defence and Security Committee did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. On behalf of the applicants, the amendment has the word "Vukosav Tomašević" MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-24-0.u31615	Dear colleagues, the DSS MPs' club submitted six amendments to the bill. One amendment was accepted at the committee session and a short time Minister Batic accepted our key amendment to Article 23. I'll say more about it when it comes to order, but that's how all the reasons why we wouldn't vote for this law were removed. So because of that gesture by Minister Batic, accepting this fundamental amendment, we will support this law. The rest of our amendments are in spirit, in the concept of this law, and they're going to specify the provisions of the law. One of these amendments is this one on Article 17. We have submitted the same amendment to Article 8. In that Article 8, it refers to the powers of the directorial service in stadiums, and in this Article 17, to the powers of the workers of the MUP. So, I will read what the basic proposal in the law reads: "The ministry may order the taking of all the necessary measures to prevent the violence and misbehave of viewers, especially to prohibit entering a sports event, or away from a sports object whose behaviour can be concluded to be prone to violent and inappropriate behaviour." I draw your attention to this formulation of "a person whose behavior can be concluded to be prone to violent and inappropriate behavior". With our amendment, we propose that this formulation be replaced by the wording "a face that encourages violence by its behaviour". So we think that what we offer through the amendment is a more precise formulation that defines the powers more clearly, in this case the representatives of the MUP, and reduces the possibility of abuse, or manipulation of this provision. As it is given in the basic bill, quite broadly, we believe that authorised representatives of the ministry or representatives of the directorial service may happen through the powers of Article 8. simply on the basis of their personal conviction, sympathy or antipathy, they can prohibit someone from entering the sports field. You know, a cop might say to someone who wears a earring - you can't go to the stadium, 'cause you look like someone who's gonna do something there. We suggest that this is specified through this clear formulation - "a person who, by his behaviour, encourages violence", so that someone who clearly acts on the spot demonstrates, or encourages violence, can prohibit entry to a sports facility or that the intervention of members of the Ministry can be removed from a sports facility. I'm sorry there are no government representatives here. I think Mr Batic would appreciate this amendment, but since it is such a situation, I urge all of you to accept our amendments to Article 8 and Article 17. We think that they are significantly improving the law and will contribute to its more effective application in practice.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-24-0.u31616	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) Article 18. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Djura Lazic and Sreten Mitrovica. The government proposes that the amendment be rejected, the Defence and Security Committee did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has the People's MP Đura Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-24-0.u31617	The Honored Presidency, colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, fellow Mitrovica and I intended to draw attention to the fate of smaller clubs in the interior, which thanks to the functioning of restaurants and other facilities in stadiums, practically support them in order to survive. However, when making the amendments, an oversight has been made, as in Article 18 of the proposed law, matter strictly refers to games, sports events of increased risk. That's why I am withdrawing this amendment on my behalf and on behalf of my colleague Mitrovica, but I would like to say a few words. First of all, I would fully support Article 18 of the proposed law, because not only is there a painful scene on the ground but also on the streets because of the use of alcohol and other stimulative means, and I think we should give more authority to the police to protect real fans from hooligans who disturb and interfere with real fans and citizens by preventing them from coming to the stadium. That's the fate I unfortunately experienced with my children last year and almost the kind of hooligans that my child was killed in a pool of blood, because they were soaking drunk and drugged with poles, rods, bricks, in broad daylight. They fell for me, and instead of going to a little prom, I had to take her to the Emergency Center. Unfortunately, police had no authority to act and therefore should allow police to protect citizens and make hooligan fans who use various stimulative means and bring unrest and disorder. So I repeat that I am withdrawing this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-24-0.u31618	I find the amendment to the 18th People's MPs Đura Lazic and Sreten Mitrovica has been withdrawn from the procedure. On Article 18. The amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. The government proposes that the amendment be rejected, the Defence and Security Committee did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by the People's Messenger Milorad Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-24-0.u31619	The essence of the Serbian Radical Party's amendment is that these preventions related to sports events are handled by some logic, and logic requires that the law clearly regulates and defines that alcohol sales in sports facilities are prohibited. The legislator proposes that this be extended and said - in sales places around sports facilities. What is this environment and in what diameter? A mile, two? As soon as something is not clearly defined, then there is a possibility of manipulation. Secondly, as for the sale of alcohol itself, I guess those who did this law were able to extract experiences from some earlier periods, for example during prohibition, the most wanted article was alcohol. Experts in the field of sociology, criminology, of course and sports workers had to consult when it was passed and proposed such a law, not to be left to the Ministry of Interior or the Football Federation of Serbia, where experts who say for themselves - we used to be involved in sports and it gives us the right to participate in proposing such laws. And imagine what kind of athletes they were. Serbia's Football Federation President Mr. Lekovic played football in a low-class club. He played a defensive, defensive player. It wasn't because of tactics, it was out of a simple grizzly that he couldn't go into the opposite half, because he wouldn't know to go back to his goal.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-24-0.u31620	People's MP, please return to the content of the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-24-0.u31621	This is interesting as well. Imagine, a man like that, with that kind of experience...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-24-0.u31622	Members of the Parliament, I remind you of the business obligation to speak about the content of the amendments and I give you a warning because of the disrespect of the Rules of Procedure when it comes to the business provision on the obligation of the MP to stick to the content of his amendment in particular.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-24-0.u31623	You don't understand, Mrs. Comic, this. We're from the same place. I remember that you may have been in the stands once while I was doing this, and I know what the real problem is, and I'm really saying, I'm warning you. For example, another example: a man who is active in basketball and previously known as a lineworker. You know what that is?
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-24-0.u31624	People's messenger, I give you your first warning. The first warning was made after a warning was issued because of the insubordination of the Rules of Procedure and because the contents of your speech are not related to the contents of your amendment. I'll remind you of the content of your amendment, if you've interfered with your mind. The amendment that you submitted to Article 18 suggests that the sale of alcoholic beverages at a sports facility is prohibited three hours before and after the completion of the event, as well as during the event. I beg you, about the content of the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-24-0.u31625	Are you finished, Chairman? You're early today. You used to have five minutes, and now you have a minute of your circulation. Why did I set this up as an example? These are people who, as individuals, and especially as members of the parliamentary majority, participated in the drafting of this law. Watch what happens now, there'll be even more chaos in the stadiums. Why? Because it will be accessible by selective banning the sale of alcohol. What's the possibility? There is a possibility that people who are close to officials in the Football Federation of Serbia in one illegal way can distribute and sell alcohol during the games, as you say, at high risk. You have no idea what a high-risk game is; if you'd looked at, gentlemen, at least one game of the Italian championship, where it's the highest-quality league, you'd see that these riots at the stadium are kind of like folklore, something that follows football and sports events. What do you think Berlusconi, who owns the club, who is and how he knows in that area and estherade and sports, doesn't know how to prevent it. He knows, by legalizing what is the best prevention, not banning alcohol. Not only that, the best prevention is high sentences, and you've put a range of six months to five years. What's that range? So, how does anyone like it, what kind of a sportsman thinks? No, the punishment is the same for all, the punishment can be from five to ten years for the most difficult forms, so the one who comes to the stadium, supported by the sports club, or, more specifically, a political option, will consider whether it will work. You gentlemen can't pass laws like this. You can't take our grades to the level that vandalism is present at our stadiums. That's not true. Vandalism was first seen in stadiums when DOS came to power after October 5th. That's the first time vandalism has been recorded. But how can you define what sports vandalism is after burning the Assembly, how can you define what sports vandalism is after entering Radio TV...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-24-0.u31626	People's MP, do not deny your impression that someone has difficulty with the definitions of vandalism, we have no difficulty defining the application of the Rules of Procedure. I give you a second warning and thank you for your contribution to the debate on amendments. Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? Yeah. ) The speech is attended by MP Zoran Krasic, an authorised representative of the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-24-0.u31627	Article 18. The bill prohibits the sale of alcoholic beverages at approaches, close to and at a sports facility, according to the promoter. The promoter thinks he can prevent vandalism in this way. It's not vandalism that's prevented, it's just the alcoholism of some people who may not have a better place to drink a few brandy or a beer at some point. But in what way does the Proposer try to prevent it? By practically temporarily restricting someone on the road to the stadium to perform their work. We don't think this law can do that, that it's an overrule of authority, and that's why we've been paying attention to Mr. Mircic's amendment that a ban is only possible in a sports facility. Out of the sports facility is not possible, it is not in accordance with the regulations to be banned, because in this way it is prohibited to perform the work of a caterer who happens to be on a road course that perhaps fans would head for a certain stadium. Who determines that? It's determined by the Ministry of the Interior. There's a central problem with this law. We've given one amendment that's more precise. It refers to all sports facilities, all sports events, not only increased risks but also ordinary ones, to say peace-making meetings where the result may be known in advance. We are therefore surprised that the promoter did not accept what is in line with our existing legal system, does not disturb anyone's right to act. We thought the promoter had to accept that. I have to draw the speaker's attention, they'll probably read the stenograms from this session, so they'll be able to find out what MPs think about article 18 of this bill -- vandalism doesn't really stop it this way. Mr. Mircic tried to explain one thing, that it's really a question of whether what happens at games is vandalism. First of all, it's not about physical culture, it's not about student sports, it's about recreation, it's about something that we're wrongly calling top-notch sports. It's a purely professional performance, where a man who has a tendency to play well, a barata ball, wants to be a slave, wants to impose himself on the market. He put his body and his abilities on the market. You know how to achieve astronomical exposure because of the transition from one club to another club. Of course, the owners of these sports clubs tend to make everything that happens on a sports object where the game is held attractive and interesting. There's a lot of things set up, a lot of acting, a whole script. You see for yourself, if any of you were at the "Star" game on "Marakana," he saw. A group of people are organized, torches are lit, things are right, and firefighters are waiting across the street. When he burns, he throws, he puts... It's a spectacle. That's why people come. Some thus meet their needs. They're all allowed until they threaten someone else. We're in that field right now, to sanction when it starts endangering someone else. We in the U.S.S.S. are just making amendments to suggest that we don't overstep, that we don't go any further, that we don't let the Ministry of the Interior do whatever they want with these provisions. We're just trying to say that to the amendments -- stop after this event, after this kind of behavior or this kind of behavior is a threat to other people's freedom, it's forbidden. That's the purpose of our amendments. Respecting the fact that this is one spectacle -- if it weren't for a spectacle, no one would welcome our basketball players, water polo players, etc. With several hundred thousand people coming to greet them, they're new idols, they're new Greek gods from Olympus, they all admit it, it exists, it's our reality -- we just want to put it in something that's bearable and it doesn't endanger another. We think that our amendments only contribute to someone by mistake and purpose not calling our children hooligans, because they are not hooligans and sports objects are not places to treat frustration.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-24-0.u31628	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? Yeah. ) The word is attended by MP Bojan Pajtic, president of the DOS parliamentary group – Serbia's Reform.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-24-0.u31629	The chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, since Parliament is working on public sessions, let's clarify some things. So, from 1997 to 2000, practically every year, there was one dead citizen at sports games, and only one in three years between 2000 and 2003. So, the average suggests that there were many more deaths during the previous regime than during this, although I would not tie it, unlike my colleague Mircic, to any government. These incidents exist in all countries, and that's something to react to. For the sake of truth, 251 fans and 163 infringements were detained in 1998, which was an absolute record in the last seven or eight years, and that trend went down after 2000 rather than higher. As for the damaged means of transport, we had the case that in 1998 16 means of transport were damaged, in 1999 18, 2000, seven, in 2001 11, 2002 11, so in the first year 100% less, and in the second two years 50% less damaged vehicles. If we are making a parallel with the current regime that exists in the Republic of Serbia, and I say it is not right, because violence at sports games is something that appears everywhere and every country has to react against, I note that they are not members and supporters of DOS parties of those who have been creators and participants of vandal outbursts, especially in the past few months.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-24-0.u31630	I would ask that we return to the content of the amendment to Article 18.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-24-0.u31631	This was a replica. (President: Replic of the People's MP Milorad Mircic. ) So I ask you not to tie this to a political moment and to strictly stick to the data that our statistics require. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-24-0.u31632	National MP Bojan Pajtic received the floor as president of the DOS parliamentary group – Serbia's Reform, and according to the content of the replication of the Democratic opposition to Serbia in the presentation of MP Milorad Mircic. Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Vladimir Dobrosavljevic, Dragan Šormaz and Vukosav Tomašević. I find that, on behalf of the Members of the People, MP Vukosav Tomašević withdraws the amendment from the procedure. The title above Articles 19 and 19 of the amendment was submitted by MP Stevan Kesejic. The government proposes that the amendment be rejected, the Defence and Security Committee did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The amendmentr wants a word. The word is made by MP Stevan Kesejić.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-24-0.u31633	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 19 relating to the costs of implementing the measures. By reading this article, I'm really amazed that the government can suggest something like this, something that is not at all in accordance with the Constitution and with the law, and as far as the jurisdiction of the MUP is concerned. Namely, it is said that the organizer of sports events can conclude a contract with the Republic of Serbia to carry out certain activities on the provision of sports events and to implement certain measures to prevent violence, misbehaving of viewers, etc. What exactly does the Ministry do, but prevent violence, establish public order and peace? Which is why someone would now charge for going to football games, other sports events, afraid of their people, their fans, and then arrange for certain clubs to be brought to the event by two or three squads of the gendarme, who would guard a minister who wanted to attend a certain event. The other reason I don't see it, except for some personal security detail. Here's why. The whole law discusses directors, then, private agencies that can negotiate with certain clubs and which will establish public order and peace at sports events. One will wear baseball bats, and the other agencies will have the opportunity to carry short arms, and here we see, the government will determine special squads of the gendarme that will carry long pipes, and may be able to go out with tanks and thus irritate the citizens who went to relax, to cheer and to behave in a completely cultural and normal way in a sports event. Irritated by the appearance of armored units, which only the MUP will, according to its intent, lead to these same youth, students or those who did not get a job, so they demonstrated on the streets in a certain way, moved to sports events and there exhibited anger, emotions, swearing judges, swearing and a minister present. Now we're using the gendarmes to prevent those same ones that helped DOS authorities to come to power on October 5th, but with the use of force. The second reason I don't see at all why there is a special agreement here with the Republic of Serbia and with certain sports organisations that they have to pay, and these funds go to the budget of the Republic of Serbia. So, em is being guarded by, therefore, the specific minister, perhaps Nebojsa Covic, who is not allowed to come from "deli" when playing with the FMP or the "grobar", so order the MUP to bring in four gendarme buses that will, in any case, be prepared. That's what that club has to pay for. It is quite pointless and the SRS parliamentary group proposes to abandon the traveling circus from the streets to the sports fields. Let the gendarmes do his job in accordance with regulations and law, and let the audience cheer the way it suits young people, to show their emotions. Of course, if violence occurs, if something happens that disturbs public order and peace, the police should comply with the legal provisions to do what is in its jurisdiction. Therefore, we propose that both the title above Articles 19 and Article 19 be deleted from the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-24-0.u31634	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? Yeah. ) The word has an authorised representative, the SRS parliamentary group, MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-24-0.u31635	Article 19 is probably an all-time member of this concept of the bill. He's, like, justifying everything that's in front and behind Article 19. It's a member who needs to make money for the MUP. It's very simple to make money. How can she make money? Article 19(1) states that it relates to all sports events covered by Articles 7 to 15. So preventive measures, simple sports encounters and encounters and high-risk competitions. What does it apply to? The village league, first league, domestic competitions, international competitions. Everything is covered, the organiser can conclude a contract with the MUP to provide additional security measures for public security, peace and order in the sport competition. The MUP is in charge of public order and peace, security and security of citizens everywhere and in every place and at all times. Why would this particularly stand out and especially negotiate? Well, in order for someone to earn money or, depending on whether they have a closed contract, they have adequate protection, so if the contract at 200,000 euros is protection is 50, and if it's 20,000 protection, there are two common dusters who only record something. Is it possible for the state, in particular the internal affairs portfolio, to charge its services, which is pretty much in that part of the regular duties and the jurisdiction of a ministry? This is why we asked the amendment to delete this member, because in addition to all the obligations imposed on sports clubs regarding the facility, the organisation of competition, communication with fans’ clubs, sales, etc., this is also imposed. In fact, it's not said to impose here, it's possible, but you know, when you're talking to the MUP and there's some possibility, it's a warrant, it means a warrant. Now, on a specific case, I'm going to show you why this is ruthless. If you take any sports game of basketball that's being held at the Pioneer Hall in Belgrade, if it were some kind of game, let's say, of less importance, then there'd be, say, fifty members of the police. If it's a derby, then there's both armors and special forces and there's also a search at the entrance and search at the exit and all possible living controls. For that game, probably, the organizer of that game pays specifically for increased security measures. The organiser did not contribute to the need for enhanced security measures, such as the organizer of the "Rad" football club in front of a small number of viewers with those tragic consequences could have no effect on public order and peace in the stadium itself. As a result, this provision is pointless and is not good at providing additional security to the MUP. Then we're not surprised that the M.O.P. worked part-time as guards in some clans, then we're not surprised by some things. This is how it's instrumentized. This way, through a police uniform, professional security is provided in some sports clubs that can pay. We, as the National Assembly, are not authorized to accept this request from the Ministry of the Interior. We're not authorized, a team before everything points out, and these statistics and these other things, that a sports event is one gathering of citizens as a five-octobaric gathering. Did you guys have a deal with the police on non-aggression and security together? Yes, it is. That's why you went into the building at half past four, burned down, no more ballots. That's when you didn't close the deal with the police. You've done your job. That's how it's gonna be at these sports games.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-24-0.u31636	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. ) The 19th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Hranislav Peric and Dragan Todorovic. The government proposes that this amendment be rejected, the Defence and Security Committee did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. The word has been given by the People's MP, Hranislav Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-24-0.u31637	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I have suggested that article 19 be deleted for the following reasons. Article 19 states that the organizer of sports events can conclude a contract on the performance of certain activities of the provision of sports events and the implementation of certain measures to prevent violence. The contract is concluded with the Minister responsible for Home Affairs. We suggest that this member be deleted and that the Home Secretary does this on official duty. These services are fully funded from the budget, and the budget is also filled with sports events, so we think there's a lot of reality. If it stays like this, we won't be helping sports clubs much. The clubs, except for the first league, won't be able to handle it financially. Maybe this should have been introduced to the first league. There's a risk game in community leagues, county leagues, zone leagues. There's a game of increased risk of entering a bigger league competition or falling out of the league. If it stays like this, as in Article 19, many games will not be played because of the inability to fund clubs.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-24-0.u31638	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Radovanovic. The government proposes that this amendment be rejected, the Defence and Security Committee did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by Parliamentarian Milovan Radovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-24-0.u31639	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group has tabled an amendment to Article 20. Proposal for a law on the prevention of violence and misbehaving in sports events, requiring the removal of the proposed Article 20. The main reason why we in the Serbian Radical Party felt that the proposed Article 20 should be deleted is because it is in certain provisions in chapter 20. The criminal law of the Republic of Serbia has already contained several crimes, which are listed which of the violent behaviours are present at sports events, in order to bring criminal charges against the responsible persons and carry out the appropriate proceedings for the execution of the crime. Do not think that we in the Serbian Radical Party are apriors, unconditionally against this bill, or against any law to combat violence at sports events, but we are against many of the solutions that you have provided for in this bill, as well as in this Article 20, for which we have asked the amendment to be deleted. When it comes to Article 20 itself, there are a few words, expressions that are ambiguous, unspeakable, vaguely defined, and should not survive as proposed. For example, a sentence of three months to one year will punish a person who casts any case; by certain provisions in one of the proposed law, have you stated that any subject is sufficient to punish a person and apply the appropriate punishment to him. That means probably, and if a certain person throws paper on the ground, it will be punished by a sentence of three months to one year. Then, you stated that you would be punished by imprisonment from three months to one year by a person participating in a physical accounting. This expression is truly ambiguous, indefinable and vague. Someone can participate in a physical accounting in terms of defense against some physical attack and violence, in the sense that there is adequate application of the necessary defence, to defend themselves against someone, and therefore in this provision you should specify, as you did in attitude 1 at the beginning of the sentence - who challenges or possibly co-starts a physical reckoning at the sports event. In the Serbian Radical Party, it is unclear what it means in this bill and in this position of the group's 20th ringleader. The term ringleader is an expression used in everyday communication. The ringleader is a word to be used, so you don't get me wrong, at fairs, at joys, etc. Here's the only expression that could have been considered -- group leader, or group leader. The leader of the group is the most impoverished expression. Or a range of punishments. What we in the Serbian Radical Party resent for you is the range of penalties - from three months to one year, from six months to three years, from one year to five years; this means that there will be possible abuses of the judge's office to determine the punishment and different criteria will be applied there. What does it mean? Who's trying to cause violence to enter the sports field? God forbid Jovan Prijic, your special prosecutor, assesses the intent of any person, a man who is publicly accused of blackmail. How will he apply the criterion of assessing the intentions of a person, so that according to the same case, Sonja Brkic, who also spoke publicly about the retroactive application of a law, judges in a court procedure the intention of a person to cause violence at a sports event?
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-24-0.u31640	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? The word is from MP Zoran Krasic, authorised representative of the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-24-0.u31641	By a provision of Article 20. The bill requires a new criminal offence. With this amendment, in addition to what Mr Radovanovic stated, we express the principled position that criminal acts should only be prescribed by the Criminal Law of the Republic of Serbia. It is not good at all when crimes are scattered according to individual laws in different areas. It is not good because of the unification of court practice, and it is not good because logic is simply lost, not only when determining the crime, law enforcement, but also when determining the elements of the entity's proper crime. That this member and this criminal act are unnecessary also shows existing practice. For 50, 60 years, and possibly longer, there have been conflicts on sports grounds. This is exactly what happens in Article 20, and people are being held accountable. Some have been punished and some have been punished for a crime. Why? Because there are already 7-8 crimes in the existing Criminal Code that represent violence, and now, depending on some additional element, it is qualified in one way or another. So there's no reason to introduce a special crime. That's the principled reason why we suggest that article 20 be deleted. The promoter obviously didn't have a real compass when he was doing the bill; so here we were a few days ago having supplements to the Criminal Law of the Republic of Serbia and using that authority in Article 69(3). A federal criminal law to prescribe mandatory confiscation of objects and funds used or created by the execution of a blood work. Why isn't that in this article? Is it possible not to confiscate objects, and these are very dangerous objects, not only when it comes to pyrotechnic means, but also poles, daggers, other means to cause injury and to inflict much more tragic consequences on citizens? You can see how inconsistencies are not consistent. Secondly, if anyone has the moral right to propose this in this way, here is almost three years after the violence that occurred only on October 5th and not only in the crisis headquarters that happened in our places, but also in front of the National Assembly building on October 25th, when these organized fans also came to the football game, but to beat up SRS MPs who went to the right place, at the front door of the National Assembly. There are no sanctions left. There's no sanctions left for armed incursion in the NBJ, Customs, the burning of RTS, the burning of the Federal Assembly building, no sanctions. But the state shows great rigorousity when it comes to alleged hooligans. What hooligans? Those who are instructed by national security to create riots at sports meetings. Now, that's the character of this government. That is what the essence of this authority is looking at, and I repeat, Article 19 is a central member of this bill. Because it's obvious that someone wants to torture this people and the system that's worse to preserve power, to intimidate the citizens, to make our children think like they're some freaks. That's why we want these amendments to improve this text, and by the way, we want to force the proposer to withdraw this bill, to fix it, to adapt it, in accordance with these discussions, because there's nothing left to hide. It's all clear, everything's familiar with fans, authorities, citizens, so why play deaf phones now and bring something that's impossible to implement.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-24-0.u31642	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Vladimir Dobrosavljevic, Dragan Šormaz and Vukosav Tomašević. The government proposes that the amendment be rejected, the Defence and Security Committee did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The People's Messenger, Vukosav Tomašević, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-24-0.u31643	Dear colleagues, one of the amendments that I spoke about in the previous address, which we specify and improve the formulations of this law, is this one to Article 20, the last position that the Bill says - The Kolvod group that carries out the criminal act under Article 1 of this article will be punished, etc. We suggest that the word "collector" be replaced by the words "incentiver out", so that this attitude would be read as "incentiver" from a group that commits a crime, etc. So we think this is a better and more precise formulation. Our legal experts believe that this in a legal sense is a better and more precise formulation, and we also believe that this wording "incentiver from" instead of "collector" can remove possible practical failures and manipulations in practice. Be careful, by an opportunistic interpretation and by applying such a formula - ringleader, always one who is in some formal or informal way the leader of the fans can blame himself, the leader of the group, and at that point he is not even there or is not the one who encourages this to be done. So, this word "incentiver" clearly states that it's the one from a group that doesn't have to be formal, or the actual leader of a group, but which in that particular act encourages a group or someone in the group to commit a crime. We think this is an improvement. I'm sorry there are no government representatives here. On the Security Committee, sir, whose lawyer he has, unfortunately, I didn't remember, which was in front of the MUP, he admitted that our formulation was better than the existing one, but I have the impression that he simply didn't have the authority to accept this amendment. I therefore appeal to all of you in the Assembly, especially representatives of the ruling majority, to accept this amendment to Article 20, because we are convinced that it represents a fundamental improvement in the formulation in the law, and I thank you in advance if you accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-24-0.u31644	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 21 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljubomir Kragovic. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Committee on Defence and Security has not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is by MP Ljubomir Kragovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-24-0.u31645	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS parliamentary group has tabled an amendment to the bill so that criminal provisions are in Article. Paragraphs 1 to 2, 9 to 10 are deleted. Article 21 regulates material in the area of violations where it says that fines from 200,000 to 400,000 dinars will be fined for violations of the sports alliance, sports society, sports organisations in the field of sport or club or other legal persons, so 13 such cases are taxed where this punishment will be applied. One of them is the point 2) for which we propose to delete - there is no supervision of the implementation of the measures laid down in this law (Article 3(2) of this Act), which is the case where a sports alliance or sports society engages another organisation that will be involved in the supervision or redistribution on the ground or stadium, so that this sanction should apply to anyone who accepts to organise a sports event. In point 9) - does not provide a limit of ticket sales for sports events - it is also not clear and defined enough and we ask that this point be deleted, as well as point 10) where ticket sales are approved in special sales places, although we often testify that such cases are also needed, especially when the visitation in stadiums is extremely large. There are many words of vandalism, hooligans, high risk, and I'll tell you a little story. On his return from Prilužje on Sunday on a train carrying several hundred Serbs, Shiptar stopped the train in Vučitrn, allegedly one of the Serbs from the train hit him and had a head cut, medical assistance indicated, as if he had been on VMA, and it was reportedly in Vrbnica, and the distance is less than three kilometers away. In three kilometers, he managed to get the train, to get medical attention, and with the help of the occupiers, and the occupiers were so up-to-date that the two helicopters above the train were at the same time, and then harassed all the Serbs who were on the train; eventually, since no one hit him from the train, but probably injured himself on the street, he performed his first neighbour Staniš Jeremic and his wife, allegedly injured him from the train. These are the hooligans who in one perfidious way want to intimidate the Serbs who stayed down to live, by the Cypriot terrorists as well as with the help of hooligans in KFOR and UNMIK uniforms, who blindly carry out all their tasks to make life worse for Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija. What could we have done? Only to block the train in Zvecan, to keep the train for an hour, not to let it move further, until they promise us that our fellow citizen and brother Staniša Jeremic will be released. They're real hooligans, they're vandals, and what's going on in the stadiums, in the fields, is enough to sanction all those riots in the stadiums.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-24-0.u31646	Since the obvious lack of data on the origin of the word, I am obliged, on the basis of Article 84(2), to inform both the MP and others that the word "hooligan" has a origin according to Irish Patrick Huligan, who has been recorded in history as a man who has been convicted and hanged for violence at a sports event, and vandals are similar to crazy, who are mostly breaking things. The example you have conducted, unfortunately, is neither hooliganism nor vandalism, but the irresponsibility of those whose Kosovo is entrusted with temporary management and their political guilt, as well as international organisations that cannot allow it. Is anyone else answering for this amendment? (Ljumir Kragovic, from the place: Replica. People's MP, you don't have the right to a replica. I gave you a notice, carefully listening to your performance in terms of proving what a hooligan is and what a vandal is. These are the encyclopaedic definitions. The word has been issued by MP Zoran Krasic, an authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-24-0.u31647	Since Friedrich Barbarossa went through Serbia, we have left the word of the bastard. That's how it came to be, you know, since we're already talking about how some words came up. In ancient Serbia, it was known that the bastard is the one who uses the word "thank you" a lot. The Serbs didn't know how to interpret it, so they said the bastard. And there are those on sports grounds and in everyday life, who abuse every situation. We have asked this amendment to remove everything we believe cannot be an offence, as we have asked previous amendments to delete it, that there is no such obligation on the part of the organisers. As a result, Mr Kragovic indicated that we asked for points 2), 9) and 10) of Article 21 to be deleted with this amendment. The bill, because we just can't figure out that selling tickets outside approved sales places can be a violation. We don't know why the public order has been violated, because the offense is an act of violating the public order that is prescribed, and here we don't see that degree of social danger which could be a violation. Or "don't provide a limit on ticket sales for high-risk sports events". We don't see what it could be a violation of. I draw particular attention to the position of the 3rd member, where it is stated: "For the violation of Article 1 of this article, a natural person who is the organizer of sports events will be fined by a fine of between 10,000 and 20,000 dinars or a prison sentence of up to 60 days". You see, this is the first time we've learned that a natural person can be the organizer of sports. In the previous provisions of the law, there seems to be no such thing. Furthermore, it is said: "for any injury referred to in Article 1. ... ". Say, what's the offense? The violation is also what Mr Kragovic stated, as stated in point 2): "does not monitor the implementation of the measures set out in this law". A natural person, an organizer of a sports contest or some game, didn't conduct surveillance, whether measures were carried out, could get 60 days in prison. Please don't put that in law. Secondly, a whole series of safeguard measures in paragraph 3 to the final position of this member, the question is whether it is in accordance with the basic provisions of the Law on Violations. We can't legally invent special protective measures. When it comes to violations, only those safeguards provided for by the Law of Infringement are possible. Here we see a wealth of measures, a wealth of twisting hands, a rich idea of how to stop something, prevent it, deny it, and not look at the basic provisions whether it's legally possible. We have limitedly intervened with this amendment just to draw attention to the motion that this law urgently withdraws from the procedure, because this would be a shame to adopt it, to come out of the National Assembly like this. There are also restrictions on the exercise of activity, bans on the performance and performance of businesses. For what? For objective responsibility. What is someone objectively responsible for? Because maybe he's an organizer or maybe he's found himself at a sports facility. Where is the individual responsibility, especially when some people who have been checked misapply and respect the laws to make bread and cakes and knives, to cut down, to be judges and caddies, etc. Then, believe me, there's nothing from our sport, and at the games there'll be, instead of participants, probably thugs.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-24-0.u31648	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Radojko Petric and Golub Rajic. The government proposes that the amendment be rejected, the Defence and Security Committee did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. On behalf of the applicants, the word for the amendment has a People's MP, Radojko Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-24-0.u31649	Dear Presidency, honourable MPs, on behalf of the SPS, along with my colleague, Golub Rajic, I have tabled an amendment to Article 21. A bill of this law. In order to prevent violence and misbehavior in sports events, the Government has proposed fines for committed offences in this article: sports alliances, sports societies, sports organisations, clubs, other legal entities, as well as responsible persons in the legal face and natural persons who are the organizers of sports events; punishment is also foreseen for entrepreneurs. In the same article, the government proposed a legal provision that a safeguard measure could be imposed in addition to fines. These safeguards are as follows: a legal person shall be prohibited from carrying out certain activities, a responsible person shall be prohibited from performing certain tasks and an entrepreneur from carrying out certain activities. There is a problem, which the government has not set deadlines for how many judges can impose a ban on these actions. It is unsustainable that the law does not prescribe how long the safeguard measure can last. Does this mean that a judge for the same offence can place a multiple protection measure on one person or person responsible to another? Is it logical to maintain the legal possibility that a judge can determine that the duration of the safeguard measure can last for 10 days, but also a year, five etc? In order to remove that illogicality, the SPS parliamentary group submitted this amendment. We propose by amendment to remove the failure in the government's proposal, in this sense that the determination of the length of the protection measure is prescribed. Right now, we suggest that this protective measure can last from three months to one year. We believe that the proposed duration time is one normal and measured penalty, not too mild, not too sharp, and that it gives sufficient range to make some graduation depending on the severity of the offence. However, the government has proposed to reject the amendment, explaining that the duration of the safeguard measure has been regulated by the Law on Violations. Then I wonder why we need this law and what the law applies. If this is a special law, and every single law is stronger than the general law, then let's write it down. So, we saw a little while ago that we had something else at Criminal Law. It's prescribed even though it stands in Criminal Law, and here we're going to prescribe one part, and for the other part we're going to say that the general law, the Law of Infringements, is being applied. I think it's simpler and that the proposed deadline is three months to one year, quite reasonable and acceptable, and it would be logical for the amendment to be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-24-0.u31650	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? No, I don't. ) Article 22. The amendment was submitted by MP Srboljub Zivanovic. The government proposes that the amendment be rejected, the Defence and Security Committee did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been made by the People's MP, Srboljub Zivanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-24-0.u31651	Ladies and gentlemen, instead of discussing today the most important business in Serbia, harvesting and offerings, we are discussing sports grounds, fans, citizens who are dissatisfied with power and are the only opportunity for them to show on these sports grounds that DOS pre-election promises are a mere formality. I have submitted an amendment to Article 22. Proposal for a law to prevent violence and misbehave at sports events, to delete Article 22. The explanation of this amendment - sports activities in all countries have great health or political importance that potentiates the importance of the country’s sporting functions. Sports activities are not immune to political manipulation, and the state's power is intensively resorting to it whenever it is estimated that it can contribute to stabilising authority and positions in public opinion. Sports clubs are largely not protected from penetration of political parties, and are even more vulnerable to the intrusion of the mafia that attracts any area in which money is spent from ticket collection, the release from tax duties and manifests the tendency of politicians to treat youth frustrations, i.e. to satisfy personal vanity in a sphere where they are never physically up to it. They are often willing to participate in financial malfeasances to raise authority in the eyes of sports managers.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-24-0.u31652	Members of the Parliament, I ask you, by respecting the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, to bring your discussion to the content of the amendment submitted to Article 22, and according to the rules for discussion in particular.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-24-0.u31653	In Article 22, particularly autocratic regimes invest great money in promoting physical culture and quality competitive selection because the success of their own representatives in international competitions is seen as the best form of political affirmation. So fascists abused the Olympic games, and even often dominated their organisational committees.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-24-0.u31654	People's MP, I give you a warning to return to the content of your amendment to Article 22.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-24-0.u31655	This amendment shows how immature the legislator of this law is because this law of a participant who has wronged the force to apply itself to law enforcement authorities to protect the sporting event. I'm afraid today's government is going down the road using sports organizers to create a police state. In all pre-election promises, you promised Serbian citizens democratic authority, criticising the previous regime as conservative, and in fact you inherited everything.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-24-0.u31656	People's MP, I give you my first warning for disrespecting the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-24-0.u31657	I don't think anyone's ever going to volunteer during a sports event to spend time at the militia station; I think that this member is actually pointless and my amendment should be accepted, because that's why I'm asking this member to be deleted.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-24-0.u31658	Anyone else want a word? The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-24-0.u31659	The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia does not have that authority, under the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, to introduce new safeguard measures and because it does not have the authority to do so by this law, but possibly by amending and supplementing the Law on Infractions, we suggest that this member be deleted, but we also use the opportunity to draw attention to the proponent's senselessness of this name of safeguard measure and this manner of implementation, i.e. the enforcement of this safeguard measure. This protection measure is approximately one step lower by the rigorousity of the measures expressed here to maintain order at the National Assembly session. I was simply astounded when these measures were introduced here, such as the distance from the National Assembly session and the monetary punishment by some automation based on allegedly some discretionary powers, but when I saw this bill, I saw that it was about the same kitchen, that it was actually a protective measure that could only be imposed under certain conditions, but this kind of protection measure cannot exist. That's the problem. If someone committed an act of violence at a sports event, he is criminally and criminally responsible. It's either jail time or fines. If it is misbehaving, please, we have all come to the conclusion during this debate that it is so wide-ranging that one transparency, one parole, one title directed to the opposing team can give someone authority to behave rudely and the man is given this kind of unconstitutional, illegal protective measure where a man is forbidden to be present at sports games, and it is even stated that the day before that he should report to the police station. It's better that you've prescribed that with two officers you bring him to the stadium, so you tie him to the fence, he can watch, he can applaud, they can pour water on him, they can cool him a little if it's hot, etc. Don't do anything that's pointless. A team before there's a free estimate of an official standing at the front door of a sports facility. They recognize people who are prone to violence, they can forbid it, otherwise they can prevent it, they can be beside it, otherwise they can control it, but don't do it in this way where they violate the fundamental human rights. Believe me, punks, bums, hooligans, and all the other thugs are also enjoying some human rights. They're human beings. Basic human rights are guaranteed by every birth, and even the theory goes to the fetus. We now say here that a man must apply to the police station as when Tito passed. I remember in time that Tito would leave Belgrade for Skopje and all police officers would guard the railways for two kilometers, and all those who sang "The Duke of Sidelic" would take the blanket and go to the police, go to the bogeyman until Tito left and came back. Don't do it again. There's no Tito, and I wish he wasn't there. Don't let when we come into conflict between the law and Chad apply Chad again, so interpret him as Chad. This protection measure is legally impossible and does not exist in our legal order. There is no law on violations and cannot be introduced into special laws. I don't know what this Legislative Committee is doing, especially the Republic Secretariat of Legislative Law, how this could have gone, or this might have been the result of the abuse of the official position of people who are obliged not to allow these things to pass into our law. This is humiliating. This is devastating, so it means no one's worth anything. If you want a law in which it is clearly said - a man is not worth anything, please vote for this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-24-0.u31660	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. ) We move on to Article 23, to which the amendment was submitted by MP Lazar Marjanski. The government proposes that the amendment be rejected, the Defence and Security Committee did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does the word bearer of the amendment want? No, I don't. Does anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word is attended by MP Zoran Krasic, an authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-24-0.u31661	I'm going to start this way - with a prison sentence of up to 60 days will be punished for a violation of a natural person if he exclaims slogans and passwords of rude and offensive content, inputs or highlights the transparencys and other traits... Who's going to judge that? A cop? What's offensive about that? Remember, a few days ago, we talked about what was offensive, as it was said there that "Living Serbia" misbehaviors or those ugly words used by one of the fans towards another, but why would that be inappropriate when they enjoy it. These say gravediggers, these say gypsies. They even have their own anthems where they say -- we're gravediggers, we're gypsies, etc. Why sanction it? What kind of password can be misbehaving? There's no parole in sports... I say--God, man, who's that shiny mind that remembered to put all this in. Then he says he's trespassing in the sports field. We have at least five members of the law standing where the director of the director's office and the police are required to prevent it. Then he says he's trespassing. It's just that it's still not sanctioned when the judge says, "Corner"... All of you there by the list... And that's the situation we've got. He's not a sanctioned football player if he turns around and says something. All the sanctions are provided and everything is given discreetly - to whom, to some policeman to conclude. What's the consequence of his discretion - 60 days in prison. Do not insult me now, since this amendment proposed that points 1, 4), 7) and 9 be deleted in point 1, and Section 2 and Section 3 also be deleted because they do not mean anything. Since I sum up this debate, about this bill, I can't propose to the promoter, since obviously Mr. Batic is not comfortable sitting here, explaining someone else's law. He's just pro-forming here to explain, however, he's seen these legal and mental shortcomings of this law too, so the man just came out because he doesn't want to embarrass himself. This law should be returned, not only because it has been in the procedure for a year and a few days, but it needs to return to the Proposer, to take the stenograms from these sessions, to take the stenograms from the Committee's sessions, and if it is possible to arrange this law to look something like it, because, believe me, we don't have the right to raise our hand for something like this. We have no right to raise our hands, because this law will give us much more trouble, so before this area is regulated already and now by the Law on Public Order and Peace, the Law on Citizens Gathering. There are already provisions that are quite regulated, because every sports event is essentially a public gathering. Obligations to apply, security obligations, redistribution, emergency security, etc. You've all been taking part and making or organizing a rally, so you know what you've had to do. Similar obligations are given to the organizers of sports events. So there are already some regulations, and if we have to settle something, give a better law to edit, not a law that goes three steps backwards and legalizes, we allow someone to carry out their own will. It's a dangerous will. Every single person's will needs to be ruled out. The executive and judicial authority is bound by law and is in the Constitution -- bound -- to show that organic spray that they have to base their decisions on something. We don't have that connection here. All we have is discretion, how will anyone apply. Please, until we have a question of responsibility for some of the things that happened at public gatherings, don't let us scare some bear with a simple thong. Pull this law out of the process, let the majority of the congregation think about this. This is a bad law, because fans don't usually share the opinion of those who think they own clubs.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-24-0.u31662	The last amendment to Article 23 was brought together by MPs Vladimir Dobrosavljevic, Dragan Sormaz and Vukosav Tomaševic. On behalf of the promoter, a representative of the Government adopted this amendment. The Committee on Defence and Security has adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible, and this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Since we have completed the examination of the Bill's proposal in particular, no one is present on behalf of the Proposer, I conclude the review of the Bill's proposal in particular, and as we have carried out a search of the Bill's proposal in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the day to vote on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 5th item of the agenda: - THE PROGRAMME OF THE ORGANISATION LAW AND THE AUTHORITY OF THE COUNTRY AUTHORITIES IN THE PROGRAMME OF THE GOVERNMENTAL AUTHORITIES You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs: Petar Petrović, Milos Lukić and Adam Urošević; Đorđe Mamula and Dragan Jočić; Dragan Todorović; Đura Lazić; Hranislav Perić; Joca Arsić; Rade Bajic; Rajko Baralić; Nebojša Jović; Dragan Jovanovic; Ljubomir Mucic; Sreten Mitrić; Radojko Petrovic; Dusan Cvetković; Branko Ružić; Golub Rajić; Jovan Todorović; Gordana Pop-Lazić; Zoran Krasic; Vjerica Radeta; Veroljub Arsić; Branislav Blažić; Branislav Vakić; Srboljubljan Živanovic; Slobodan Janić; Zlatan Jovanovic; Natas Jovanović; Petar Jovanić; Stević; Stevan Kejić; Stevan Kjevrić; Ljuban Kražić and Milovarnović; Dragarnović Ljuban Dragović, Dragović. You have received reports from the Committee on Justice and Administration and the Legislative Committee, as well as the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Serbia on the amendments submitted. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 90. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I ask all authorised representatives, presidents and vice presidents to deliver, if they have not already done so, applications for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 136(1) of the Treaty, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a search in principle. Does the Proposer's representative, Dr Vladan Batic, the minister of justice, want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Dragan Markovic, according to the Rules of Procedure, excuse me, ministers, not only in the application for a word. Thank you. Here you go. Minister of Justice in the Government of the Republic of Serbia Mr. Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-24-0.u31663	The Honorable Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is on the agenda of the draft law on the organisation and jurisdiction of state authorities in proceedings against war crimes offenders. I believe we have an extremely significant legal act on the agenda of the parliament of the Republic of Serbia. I think this is how we show that the state of Serbia has agreed that it can process war crimes on its own. We simply have to eliminate some of the past's mortgages, go through a catharsis that means admitting that some of our countrymen or some of our citizens on our behalf committed crimes, that we also say that everything that happened with The Hague tribunal was a necessary evil, something that no one wanted, something that was a debt from the past, something that the current government had to accept by choosing between two evils, co-operation with The Hague tribunal or further isolation, further sanctions. By choosing between the question of fate or a small number of people for certain actions that have been or have not been done in the past and in the future of all citizens of the Serbian state, we, as the responsible authority, had to define ourselves for this second. So, the Hague tribunal is something imposed, which no one wanted, which is not an expression of anyone's will, sympathy or love. Whoever is telling you this had a long and unpleasant correspondence, or correspondence with The Hague tribunal, with the chief prosecutor of the UN tribunal. The question is, were we as a state to process war crimes on our own? I believe that now we are and that we have a credible judicial system, to deal with these unfortunate mortgages of an ugly past. Of course, the law states that all crimes will be prosecuted, regardless of nationality and regardless of any national omens and regardless of the time and place where they were committed in the premises of the former SRJ, pardon the SFRY, because I forgot when it all started. So this is something that has also been accepted by representatives of the OSCE and the Council of Europe and the tribunal itself, and I believe it will be accepted by the understanding of most of the citizens of this country who had reserves, and I must tell you that many people at the top of the current government towards The Hague tribunal and some events that have often associated with sharing some selective justice there. I was one of the speakers that it was like that. We cannot change relations in the international community. We can't establish our rules of conduct, we don't have the strength to do that. We cannot defy Europe, we cannot defy the United States. We tried, we had a bad time back. We must take care of the future of the citizens of this country and especially of young generations, of future generations, so that they do not seek their happiness and their future in the white world on some distant meridians. We need to catch a grip with Europe and the world. We must return to the family of European historical and civilizational peoples and states, where we belong. We must show that we accept European standards and that we are up to being in this family of European countries and peoples. It's precisely this law that should be a manifestation of such a definition. I think the sad and unfortunate story with The Hague tribunal is practically at least brought to an end, with regard to raising some numerous and future indictments. I sincerely hope they're not going to be there, as I sincerely hope that the arches of justice in The Hague will be the same for everyone. There are the most people at the top of the political government in this country. Maybe not everyone thinks so, but I also asked for Albanian war criminals, Thaci, Ceku and Haradinaj, who I am responsible for saying are Europe's greatest war criminals after World War II and to be found there, for example, Ali Izetbegovic. We're having these conversations, and I've been having these conversations myself since the moment I took over as justice minister. It's not just a question of being found on the UN tribunal's indictee's bench and being held accountable for the crime. We must seek some universal justice, for every crime must be answered. As Ulof Palme used to say - terror is always terror, crime is always a crime, even when it was committed in the interest of some higher goals and higher interests. So that's what we really are and our reality right now. Why am I bringing this up? Not just, I'm saying, because of their responsibility, but because of the repercussion that the state can have out of that responsibility. If so, so-called. The KLA or the KLA treats as some kind of army for the national liberation of Albanians in Kosovo, then Kosovo's future is also questionable. If it is treated as one terrorist organization that has committed numerous war crimes, then it cannot have adequate credibility. The situation is identical in terms of war damage at the premises of the former BiH. Not only can one side be held accountable, but the other can seek the realization of war damage. To return to the field of what is before us today in Parliament. So this has been accepted with the understanding of all European institutions officials. I hope so, too, from our citizens. And, listening to everything the Hague indictees or potential indictees say, they would all, if they had to face past sins, and I must remind you, unfortunately, the UN Security Council Resolution established the Hague tribunal, that the UN tribunal requires the compromise of its legislation and its conduct on national legislation and on national justice. They're determined, they're parameters, like it or not. Now there's a chance that with full credibility we're processing war crimes. We will have, and this is what this law stipulates, especially the war crimes prosecutor's office, we will have a special division of the Belgrade District Court for War Crimes, a special detention unit, a special service of the IDP to prosecute and investigate war crimes. I hope that according to the arches of justice that we will create and with these potential crimes and its perpetrators we will end up in front of the public, according to our procedures and our laws. It's something that's inevitable, simply, wasn't anyone's whim, no one's will, but a simple matter of extreme urgency. He who loves The Hague should be in his house. I hope that by adopting this law we will show our citizens and the world and Europe that we have gone through this catharsis and that we will face all the problems as a responsible state and responsible government ourselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-24-0.u31664	Do the officials of the committees want a word? The Legislative Committee or the Justice Committee? No, I don't. ( ) Do the words of representatives, or presidents of parliamentary groups, want? Yeah. ) The word is attended by MP Dragan Markovic, a member of the SS. Are any of the other presidents or authorised representatives answering for a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-24-0.u31665	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is clearly going to say that all Serbs who were war participants and all who were in some photo with a gun in their hand go to The Hague, that is to be tried here in Belgrade. The SS has suggested that if there is a war crime, that everyone is tried here in Serbia and that the processes are done here. We are the only country in the world, ladies and gentlemen, whose entire former political, military and police leadership is in The Hague! Did we wage conquest wars, and how did all these wars begin? Instead of discussing problems here today, such as harvests, droughts, strikes -- tomorrow 100,000 people are expected in Belgrade, dissatisfied workers, 950,000 people are not working in Serbia, 200,000 people in May have not received salaries, pensions have been reduced, and MPs are expected to pay 15% -- we are talking today, ladies and gentlemen, about the court that will be formed in Serbia, that all those who participated in the war will be condemned here. On the other hand, I remember what Mr. Batic said, that he asked that Shipari, Albanians be arrested, but that remained a letter on paper. To this day, Albanians neither formed a court, nor did any Albanian, Shiptara, deliver, except that UNMIK and KFOR arrested him. I don't know how much our government and our DOS has to do with these people in the European Community and the Hague, and what we got. What is war crime and genocide? Who suffered war crimes and genocide? Serbs. Is it a war crime when RTS is bombed? Could the state television not work during the war, and give me a shelter where the show technology can hide without NATO pact radar systems finding that television. Is genocide, or war crimes, when the train is bombed in the Gredelic ravine; whether war crimes when the bridge is bombed in Varvarin on Orthodox holiday, so when people return, a large number of young people on the bridge have died again. Is that a war crime? What's genocide? Genocide is when one nation is expelled from one space to another space. Who had genocide? Serbs. How many Serbs returned to Croatia, Bosnia, Kosovo and Metohija? Very small percentage. Let's remind ourselves, since it is the most Tasty in Kosovo and Metohija, 200,000 Shipara, Albanians from Albania, who have never lived in Cosmet. What about those who killed the Serbian people? We are now forming a court to condemn all those who have fought. It's easy for you, gentlemen of the DOS, to you who escaped during the war, and my son was in the army 106 days more during the war. It's easy for you to get out of the country. That's where you called NATO's pact to bomb us, and what about those who were mobilized? Was anyone allowed to refuse the military call he received that he had to go to defend the country? You know what with those who were in the country and refused to call, they're going to jail. It is the biggest national shame since Serbia exists, what you DOS are doing. Someone's gonna curse you for it. God is watching what you're doing. You've released 1900 Shipars. Laugh, laugh, gentlemen of the DOS. President of the Agriculture Committee, laugh instead of asking you to fight for agriculture here, you laugh. You released 1950 Shipara from Serbian prisons. Here I read at one point in the law, a special prison is made for war criminals and Serbs living in Serbia. What about those people who were in those prisons? Yeah, they're smugglers, they sell cell phones, they sell cigarettes, and those other people who defended the Serbian people, they're war criminals. They should go to The Hague, or be tried here in Serbia. It's a shame what's done! At one point in this law, Article 4 mentions that a court should be established in Serbia. Croatia did it on time. She protected those who killed Serbs in Croatia, and now they allegedly condemned them. When Serbia is condemned to pay for complete war damage, they will be amnesty from their government. It's no problem that some individual is going to be in jail, but it's a problem that our grandchildren will have to pay for the total war damage that has been done. Do you see what they say in The Hague? There they say Slobodan Milosevic shot in Bosnia, Croatia, Kosovo and Metohija, but said the military, police. The army and police make up the Serb people. Now we want to show that we are to blame for everything that happened in the former Yugoslavia's space. In Article 7, ladies and gentlemen, it is said that witnesses can also be those who are not currently in Serbia's space. So those who are on Cosmet, Albanians, those who are in Croatia, Croats, or Muslims, and whether we will do as the UN tribunal does. Are we going to work on that principle? Further, protected witnesses. What protected witnesses, this is not an organic crime. There are no protected witnesses when it comes to war crimes. Let's go out and see if he says that Micah committed a war crime, but a protected witness gets a huge sum of money, has his own car, etc., as you do here these days by bribing these MPs. This is not a people's will. This congregation is not legitimate. This congregation does not represent the people's will. The national will is not that you rule with Banet Ivkovic from the SPS, because he is allegedly from the Socialist People's Party. It's not the people's will. Socialist Party voters, Serb Unity parties, the Serbian Radical Party were against DOS and you cannot now convince the people of Serbia that you have the majority, and this law will vote and be the majority in this assembly. Why don't you call the election? All these laws, nothing changes, everything's the same, only he's gone. It's much worse. You don't go into the people, you want these polls of yours to convince the citizens how well they live, and the citizens know very well how they live. So, ladies and gentlemen, if this law is passed, the witnesses will be Shiparians, Croats, Muslims, to talk about Serbs, and give me one Shiptar to testify against someone who committed war crimes in Kosovo and Metohija. There aren't any. I've never seen one. A special prison for Serbs, and from these prisons all the Shiparians have left; and all those who are wartime participants, God forbid if they are political, they do not have to be party presidents, it is enough to be presidents of the local committee, if there are any photos that defend the Serbian people, they will go to that prison, or they will be tried. This court will not be a court of justice. The court will confirm Croatia and Bosnia's suit, which it has sued Serbia, and this court will give legitimacy to The Hague tribunal, which was made only for Serbs. He who raises his hand and he who votes for this law is against the Serbian people.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-24-0.u31666	The Prime Minister in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Vladan Batic, spoke.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-24-0.u31667	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we either don't want to hear from you or we don't want to hear from you. It's exactly the opposite of what Mr. Dragan Markovic said. First of all, this isn't just about Serbs. That's what I explained. When you read it, you can see it. Secondly, this law is just about being tried here, not in front of The Hague. Third, this is not a law against all members of the Yugoslav People's Army or the police force, but a law to banish war criminals. Those who committed war crimes have shamed thousands of centuries of history, above all, of the Serb people. It's something that hasn't been remembered in our knightly history. That's right. But the question is, when the law is criticised, give an alternative. We tried to demonstrate false defiance, spite, war with the whole world. What's the effect of that? We lost sovereignty in Kosovo and Metohija. If the former regime had remained in power, I think we would have a state holiday -- the day of victory over NATO in Kosovo and Metohija. I'm absolutely sure. They would have declared, as countless times so far, their defeats for victory. So let's be realistic. The horned shot can't, we're in relation to the situation in the international community just what the folk song says "sirak sad amongst the storms". And they are not worth the demagogue passwords, the stories of parliamentary mandates, and when the Administrative Committee, in which the DOS makes up the majority, proposed that the mandates belong to the coalitions, some stood up against it and said let the Constitutional Court decide. The Constitutional Court has decided, and now the Constitutional Court's decision is no good. I don't know what's wrong. And as for the election, there were elections in Cicevic the other day, voters showed what their real will is and everything is well seen and everything is known.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-24-0.u31668	Since the Rules of Procedure are now up to the president and the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, and at least 10 minutes, I am setting a break. We continue our work in the afternoon debate on the principle of the participation of the presidents, i.e. representatives of the parliamentary groups. Thank you. [[After a break.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our session in the afternoon. Please, in order to determine the quorum, insert your identification cards into the electronic voting system. I understand we have a quorum to work with. Are any of the other presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups answering for a word? No, I don't. ) We are moving to a debate in order of the MPs, and according to reports, we are looking into the draft law on the organisation and jurisdiction of the state authorities in the process against the war crimes offenders. First reported is MP George Mamula (not present). After him is MP Milos Lukic. National MP Milos Lukic is asking for additional time to concentrate due to the constitutional subcommittee's busyness and will be allowed. The People's Messenger Petar Petrovic has the word, instead of the People's Messenger Milos Lukic, and after that, the People's Messenger Ljubodrag Grbić.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-24-0.u31670	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Soviet Union will not support the bill that is before us today for principled reasons. Namely, the existing Criminal Law of the Republic of Serbia also includes acts to be processed, as you say, under the bill. We believe that the existing state authorities, i.e. public prosecutors and district courts that exist throughout the Republic of Serbia, are capable enough to prosecute all those indicted for war crimes. However, what has been led by the SS MPs not to vote in favour of such a bill, in addition to these procedural remarks, is that we are also asking whether we in the Republic of Serbia should always, as the people say, run ahead of the ore? Is it just us, of the states that are created in the territory of the former SFRY, that we should have such a special law, and does this mean that this is how we acknowledge that only members of the Serb people have committed war crimes? That doesn't mean that we in the Soviet Union think that those who have committed war crimes should remain unpunished, but in my discussion, I have to point out one example - whether it's a war crime and what it is a war crime if, for example, they are members of one of the units, whether territorial defenses, whether militias, whether regular armies, who have been attacked from some house, from some facility, school, hospital, etc. And where did their comrades die, in the conquest of that facility where they were shot, they applied all the means available to them and destroyed such an object, and there were women, children, etc.? It will certainly be treated as a war crime because people who are not members of these armed forces who attacked Serbia's armed forces have been killed. Could anyone have known there were women, children, sick, etc. in that facility? When you answer these questions, gentlemen who propose such laws and the processing of such war crimes, then you can expect the MPs of the Soviet Union to support you and vote in favour of such bill. On the other hand, give me an example that in Slovenia, Croatia, Macedonia, Bosnia and Herzegovina or in Kosovo and Metohija, such courts, such prosecutors, or such a law has been passed. When you come out with these facts and you convince us that there are such laws in these countries and that those who have killed untrained Serb soldiers, Serb non-power, women, children, etc. will be prosecuted, then we can give you the support that such a law will be adopted and applied to the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Otherwise, we can't give it to you. Let's not comply with everything the powers of the United States are looking for. Look what they're asking us now, to sign a bilateral agreement with them, to protect their citizens. We're being blackmailed in every way possible. We in the Soviet Union ask whether the citizens of the United States are superhumans, whether they should be protected in every way, that they are not responsible for crimes for war crimes, etc. On the other hand, by looking at the process, we have only given one amendment to this law, believing that in addition to the public prosecutor elected by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and its deputies should be elected by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, on a proposal from the public prosecutor. We think that nothing less significant is the function of a deputy public prosecutor, we even think it's much more important, because it's just them that collects evidence. It can't be one day that you don't bomb us with new expressions, so you've already pierced our heads with this "processing." We don't know what that means anymore. It was likely that trials had been conducted before, so it was not a trial, but rather court proceedings in the case of charges, evidence, verdicts, appeals, final judgments, etc. For a while, for about two years, you've been distracting us with that transparent work, and now you're distracting us for about two years with the processing. I don't know what you're going to do while you're in power, but I guess you'll be leaving the government real quick, inventing more so you can distract us about it. From everything said and said, the Serbian Unity Party will certainly not support this bill, and you -- who will vote for this law in the end, stand before your successors and explain to them the next day why you voted and why you supported this law, which is certainly harmful to all citizens of Serbia, and especially to the people of the Serbian people.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-24-0.u31671	Before I give my word to the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups who have called for a word, I will remind you of Rule 136, which, as well as in the case of discussions in particular, determines the order in which the debate takes place and ask that the next time the president or representatives of the parliamentary groups are interested in the debate in principle be present in the hall when they are given the right to speak according to the Rules of Procedure. National MP Dejan Mihajlov, president of the DSS parliamentary group, and then MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group, reportedly.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-24-0.u31672	Since the Rules of Procedure are provided twice in ten minutes for the heads of the parliamentary groups, it would not be so envisaged that it must be used at once, so we can obviously report back sometime during the debate, not just at the beginning. It's something that's totally acceptable to us and normal, but let's go back to the Bill of Law on the Organisation and Jurisdiction of the State Authorities in the war crimes offender procedure. Given that the Democratic Party of Serbia has always insisted that the Law on Co-operation with The Hague tribunal must be something that would be accepted in order for this co-operation to take place legally, we believe that the war crimes trial should first start in our country, because we ourselves need to break up with those of our citizens who, in their own name, and not our own, committed war crimes. We always thought that those who violated international law standards, the law of war, had to respond, and not in The Hague, but here in Serbia. We believe that those who are against this law actually support the Hague tribunal and that our citizens are meant to be there. We believe that between the two bad solutions we should choose one that is less bad and which is more in favour of not only the citizens but also of the Serbian states, which is that war crimes criminals are tried here, because our courts will certainly be more careful and they will better examine all the circumstances, on the one hand, and on the other hand, the penalties before our courts are far easier than the sentences before The Hague tribunal. If it is considered that the sentences in front of our courts are those that existed at the time of the execution of the crime, which is the maximum sentence of 20 years in exchange for the death penalty, something that is far easier than it exists before The Hague court and that is good for the state and better for the citizens who will eventually be tried for war crimes. That is why the Democratic Party of Serbia felt that such a law had to be passed before, show good will to co-operate with The Hague, but two-way, not only by delivering citizens from the Banovic brothers to all others, but by simply co-operation with The Hague tribunal being two-way in exchange for evidence, in exchange for all things that could contribute to bringing all war crimes indictees to justice and responding because they committed war crimes. The Democratic Party of Serbia has always insisted on this and considered it better to judge someone in our country and will then have a much fairer trial than in The Hague tribunal, and thus protect the state. I'm saying that because we've been infrequently witnessing that in The Hague, someone is trying to accuse the entire state, the whole people that it was genocide, that the state was genocide, so this is exactly the way to avoid it and protect the citizens and the state and that our citizens, who will be responsible and who have to answer for the crimes they committed, if they did, are being tried here. This law itself is a technical law that regulates the most general procedure of government authorities against war crimes offenders, but that is where objections can be placed. Article 2, which regulates the jurisdiction of this court does not involve crimes against humanity, crimes provided for in Articles 3 and 5. The UN tribunal's statutes, and if this were to remain this way, we would simply exempt the most serious crimes against humanity from our responsibility and leave it directly to The Hague. Perhaps it is the intention of the legislator of this law to pull through so that the most serious crimes are not tried here, but to remain the UN tribunal's sole jurisdiction. We have submitted one warning amendment that there must be an opportunity for the most serious crimes to be tried right in Serbia and that there is no exception to the jurisdiction of Serbian courts in these matters, because it is the opposite, and if we are talking about co-operation with The Hague tribunal then this should certainly be classified. We stand for it, such an amendment we have, and we think this must be accepted, simply in order for through one full, real jurisdiction of this court to do so so that it can be responsible for all crimes and in such a way that we take another step to judge our citizens. In Article 3 it is ultimately undefined to whom this bill applies. We have suggested that this bill applies to citizens not only from Serbia-Montenegro's territory, but to all citizens from the territory of the former SFRY. This must primarily apply and the state must have the opportunity to judge war crimes against Serbs in Croatia, Bosnia and of course over Serbs in Kosovo. He who tries to create a court that would judge only Serbs and who would exempt the jurisdiction of this court for the territory of the former SFRY, tries simply to make some rotten compromise with some surrounding states to simply exclude their citizens who have sinned against our citizens and Serbs living in Croatia and Bosnia. With our amendment, we open the possibility of prosecuted all perpetrators from the territory of the former Yugoslavia, so that everyone else who committed war crimes against Serbs, especially in Krajina and Bosnia, will be brought to justice. That's what our interest is and what we have to deal with in the next period. In addition to having to bring those who allegedly committed crimes on our behalf to justice, we must do so with those who did so to our fellow citizens, who did so to Serbs in Krajina, Bosnia and Herzegovina. They can't be amnested by responsibility. If they will be amnested by this responsibility by someone in The Hague because there is not enough room, if, as in Croatia for crimes in Split or elsewhere, these people will be amnesty by responsibility, we must not do so, nor must we forget it. That is why it must open the court's jurisdiction for citizens from former SFRY territory so that Serbs can protect themselves and that crimes against Serbs will not be forgotten. This just has to be done like this. Those who are against this will show an obvious intention to use this tribunal for trial only for our crimes, which I don't think is good, because not only have our own committed crimes, but it has been on all sides and it has to be taken care of. In particular, it must be kept in mind that Albanians who have committed war crimes against Serbs in Kosovo are brought to justice, that the possibility is opened, through co-operation with UNMIK, that they are delivered to Serbia and that they are tried in Serbia. It's something that should be the priority of this court and this prosecutor when he starts working. This law, which is a bit controversial and even in law theory, forms something special. We believe that the current prosecution, the existing courts and the existing police can act in this process and that it is not necessary to establish everything in particular until the end. If the legislator, the government of the Republic of Serbia has decided to form a special prosecution, okay, we will see how effective it will be. It didn't have to, it could've been done with existing organs and it could've just been applied to the existing procedure. There are a lot of vague provisions that may be saying that a circle of people who are to be elected as prosecutors is narrowed down; you see this in Article 5 where it is said - for a war crimes prosecutor may be elected, and for his deputy appointed, a person who meets the conditions for a choice for a district attorney and has a high moral reputation, impartiality and significant experience in the area of criminal law. A high moral reputation is an extremely relative category and something high moral reputation for you does not have to be for them. It's for someone to go to Schiller's high moral reputation when he does it to do something else. When someone else does, it's a crime. So these are relative categories, high moral reputation. Therefore, this provision, in my view, is not the happiest solution, and it will probably serve there to discredit some potential candidates, as well as impartiality and significant experience in the area of criminal law, and it continues - an advantage in choice, i.e. setting up persons with knowledge and experience in the field of international humanitarian law and human rights. (President: Are you using for the next ten minutes? Yes. This experience, unfortunately, is owned only by those who were in NGOs who attended various courses organised by international organisations. There is still a narrow circle of people, so whether it will be Sonja Biserko or Natasa Kandic, perhaps, because they are the best knowers of humanitarian rights, or someone else. I think these provisions, these qualifications -- high moral reputation, impartiality and significant experience in the area of criminal law, international humanitarian law -- are categories that simply shouldn't be present when such significant prosecutors are elected. If there are general conditions, it's something general for everyone. These specific criteria, which are relatively and subject to the assessment of those who need to decide who will be set up, are something to be used to disqualify, probably because of political or other belongings and to place loved ones in important places, whether it is like Sonja Brkic or someone else, but simply to place people with extremely controversial qualifications, but with "experience" in the field of humanitarian law, in this place. The prosecutor will be much dependent on this prosecutor and will depend on the way this tribunal works, whether he will judge only Serbs, or whether this special department at the District Court or this court or this prosecution will address the crimes others have committed. I fear that we as Serbs, and we as a state of Serbia and we as the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia must not forget that, we must not go beyond that. Of course, there are also those who are willing to forget it, get over it, especially those countries that have begun to judge, say Croatia, their citizens for war crimes against Serbs, so all of this turns into a joke, as was known for the war crimes trial at the port of "Lora" in Split, where minors of insignificant punishments were given to Croats who tortured and killed Montenegrin reservers in the most monstrous way. It's something that can't be forgotten and that we can't go over, and that's why this court and this prosecution will play a special role in the coming period. What is being reintroduced is the introduction of a special department of the MUP that will only deal with these affairs. At the District Court, he's educated for war crimes. A special detention unit shall be introduced. Someone apparently intends to build some Serbian Cheveningen and thus perhaps brand some people. I think simply these particularities that you introduce should be served in order for the new financial resources to be washed through the creation of these specialities. 212 million dinars for this were provided, donation money for this, and I'm afraid that this particularity will allow many to channel through privileged companies and money to their party or other friends, and that's not good. It simply does not need to be used this way to abuse donations and budget money, but should be used in regular prisons without special separation and through regular authorities, which may be dealing with these affairs, resolve these issues. The third serious objection by the Democratic Party of Serbia's MPs to this law concerns Articles 14 and 15, where it is said - if it is not possible to ensure the presence of witnesses or damaged in the main search, their hearing can be conducted through a video-conferencing link. This gave up even in The Hague. Even in The Hague, the tribunal gave up such a solution to the video conference link. They have a witness protection program, but the video conference links are gone. It turned out to be a bad tool and a set-up for witnesses. Why does someone in Serbia need a video conference link? Why can't the state of Serbia provide the safety of a man who needs to testify before our court? Is this state so weak, bad and irresponsible that it cannot protect one witness, or is it the intention that various victims of Bosnia testify against our citizens here, through a video conference link, or what else? To re-emerge the rapes, these and those, so that we can conduct mounted procedures here, as there are in The Hague. I don't think it should be the legislator's intention, given that there is no such solution in international legislation. There is no conference link in national legislation through international criminal legal aid. Article 15 of the Galsi - on a reasoned proposal from the interested party, the court may decide to protect the personal data of witnesses or damaged persons. If the video conference link is brought into contact with Article 15, where the data of the damaged or witness can be protected, then, through a video conference link, you will be witnessed by someone who will be scribbled, even where he testifies... Consider, for example, that a victim from Croatia testifys in a video-conferencing manner, so that the defendant will not be able to see a witness or a damaged witness through video-conference, because he will be scribbled, and he will not be able to find out his name. This is from the position of criminal procedural law and general Roman law, which has introduced testimony and underlines the particular importance of visual contact of witnesses and defendants, something that is completely unacceptable and something that doesn't exist anywhere. We're going to get into a situation where we're being witnessed by someone smudged, hundreds or thousands of miles away without knowing the identity of that person. What else is this than setting up witnesses or mounted processes? This just can't stand like this. In Bosnia and Herzegovina's legislation, witness status is particularly regulated, i.e. witness protection procedures, and it is correctly said that and to whom data from protected witnesses are available. They are available to the injured, they are also available to the accused, because he needs to know who is suing him, so that he can defend himself against what he testifies and provide counterarguments, not that he knows neither identity nor that he can see him, since that person will be protected, or he will not be able to testify through the video conference link. This has failed, and none of this is in any legislation, national or international. The Hague tribunal has given up on this. I don't know what the legislator's intention is to put this in our house. We have proposed an amendment that on how to protect witnesses will be passed a special law within a certain time limit, so that this can work. This is how we open up the possibility of mounted processes. Protected witnesses from Croatia and Bosnia are not introduced to testify to war crimes against Serbs. We need to be clear about that. That's why it's important to pay special attention here to this part and to rule out this possibility. This law provides for special earnings and everything else, which can be acceptable because of the seriousness and responsibility of the job. Since a large budget is also foreseen here and donations are planned and someone in the West will be very in the mood to equip special prison units, special departments and special prosecutors, since the donations they received from the Justice Ministry went to some suspicious flows, that the union of employees in the judiciary has repeatedly pointed out that there is no idea where the money from Greek donations, a million and a half dollars and some other donations. opening up the possibility of new abuses, of new setting up jobs. Special care should be taken of how these funds will be spent. This law is acceptable and must be passed, given that the state of Serbia would then be precisely determined against both The Hague tribunal and our citizens, as it will certainly be better treated by the war crimes proceedings against our citizens than by The Hague tribunal. This is an opportunity for us to protect the state from the accusations it has been -- that the entire Serbian people are genocide and that the whole country has participated in wars. Simply, the DSS will support this law in principle. We have submitted amendments that correct the text of the law and make this law much better for the state. I expect this law to be passed and Serbia to be determined according to the war crimes trial in its country and thus best shown that it is mature to be responsible for building institutions as a state and thus to be an equal member of the international community.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-24-0.u31673	The word has a folk MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-24-0.u31674	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, for reasons of law-making by emergency procedure, we Serbian radicals have seen the reason for this law. In an explanation of the proposal, the Serbian government says it proposes the adoption of this law by emergency procedure to improve co-operation with the International Tribunal for the persecution of persons responsible for serious violations of international humanitarian law, committed on the territory of the former Yugoslavia since 1991. Well, let's start chronologically. First of all, you brought the Co-operation Act with The Hague tribunal, which the minister here said was reality and that simply, the shot with the horn cannot and that we had to bring it. Prior to that, Milosevic was delivered without law. Yesterday we heard that Cedomir Jovanovic played a key role in this, but we heard from Minister Batic that Kostunica was well aware of everything. We think they were right about each other yesterday. After that, that key article 39 was amended. The law on co-operation with The Hague tribunal, which originally guaranteed that only those on the Hague indictment would be delivered, already being indicted. After the amendment of that article in 39, we saw that it was possible to deliver countless people, as much as the UN tribunal would ask. After that, you dropped out and pleaded with The Hague indictment against Vojislav Seselj. Vojislav Seselj went to The Hague to oppose the tribunal. Now, Carla del Ponte doesn't know what to do with Milosevic, and she knows even less what to do with Seselj and asks you to set up here, in the country, a court that will judge some war criminals and thus leave us alone to prove to the world that we are Serbian criminals and that we are a genocide people. If someone committed a war crime, I don't argue it's possible, it's an individual act. I'm sure no one in the army has ever given orders in the police that crimes are committed. So it is possible that such cases have existed so far, under the applicable Criminal Code, could be tried for war crimes for all parts of the JVI chapter of the Basic Criminal Code. So far, you've got two men convicted of war crimes in Prokuplje. The Supreme Court even sharpened their sentence. You have, as far as we know, in the action "Sabbe" arrested two men in Novi Sad, who claim to have committed some war crimes in Ovcara. The question arises, how many more do you think there are war criminals when you propose the adoption of this law, when you ask that a court be established for war crimes perpetrators, a special public prosecutor for war crimes, and all that is in the law still foreseen by the authorities and bodies that will participate in the investigations and in the trial itself. I don't think you'd do that if there were two, three, five people. You probably know how many people you have to convict for war crimes. Carla del Ponte herself says there are 17 more indictments, and none of those 17 are on the territory of the Republic of Serbia, although Mladic is often suspected by state authorities in Serbia of not wanting or unable to arrest him. Apparently, he's not here. So, who are these people you're going to judge and who are these people who are going to charge some of our fighters or members of the police with committing war crimes? The question arises, will Hashim Thaci, Haradin, Bajram Rexhepi, answer to this law? You now want to talk to Rexhepi about the future of Kosovo, with Rexhepi, whom Nebojsa Covic accused of decapitating as a surgeon, cut off the head of a Serb, who was otherwise a member of the SRS and named Ivan Milosevic. Are you going to talk to such a man about the future of Kosovo and Metohija or are you going to bring such a man to court, one or the one who already exists and who can now judge war crimes? What exactly is behind this law? In addition to the need for the Serb people to be declared criminal and genocide, to replace the thesis, because Serbs were the ones who were the subject of genocide, which were torn apart, mutilated, killed, slaughtered, slaughtered and so forth. In addition, it should serve as a good support for the success of the war damage compensation suit between Bosnia and Herzegovina and Croatia against our country. We know very well that you dropped the suit and that we missed all the deadlines for the suit, so now we can only expect the international court of justice to decide. This would be another piece of evidence more if we had to pay for that war damage. The International Court of Justice in The Hague, I wanted to remind the minister, and he's not here right now, is also founded by the UN, so here are the Americans asking us to sign a bilateral agreement under which their citizens will not be responsible for war crimes. Protecting the people of their citizens, nothing more normal than that, but that's why we need to accuse ourselves, ourselves, another cross to impose and completely distort history. This should, in addition, represent this law as well as a special message to young generations never to respond again, if God is not to be given, to a military call for mobilization and to stand in defense of the country, because one day they can be the subject of such improvised and staged processes just because they participated in the defense of their homeland, and how, through these imaginary and protected witnesses, as you have already predicted by law. If you thought you were judging everyone, regardless of nationality, the question arises as to why you've released those Albanians, those 1,900 Shiplars you held in our prisons, and why you didn't judge them under the applicable law. You let them go, and now you're going to invent some criminals in Serbia, and now you're just asking yourself what kind of head it costs. Small crime, big crime, medium, how much money the Americans will give for it and who they'll give it to. We know that Milosevic's head had one price, that Sljivancanov had another price. There's obviously going to be a big trade in Serbian heads here. I would really like to ask the question, is it possible that you are not aware that we are taking the blame on ourselves and the Serbian people in general, for everything that has happened in the premises of the former SFRY and how much will it cost us, not just materially? We have a member 2. The Code of Criminal Procedure, which states that criminal sanctions against the perpetrator of a criminal offence can only be handed down by a competent court in a procedure initiated and implemented under this law. (President: Are you using the next 10 minutes? Yeah, so, just by this law. It's this article 2 that tells us that we can't have any other special law. The aim of the law is, as the Proposer tells us, more effectively to carry out proceedings against persons charged with war crimes. The question arises whether our courts are truly not capable and effective enough to judge any criminal offences provided for by the Criminal Code. And the question is, if they're not capable, why don't you get them ready? The title of the law itself, which says that the perpetrators of war crimes will be tried, is something that bothers us first, because no one is guilty until it is proven by a judicial verdict, and I guess it should stand at least - the suspects that have committed crimes. There are many similarities in this law with The Hague tribunal, primarily the detention unit, some new terminology. It is another proof that they are forcing you to pass this law, so that everything that happens there in The Hague tribunal becomes normal, and yet only that ad hoc rules are passed depending on who is on the defendant's bench, and then there should be no more The Hague tribunal. They've cut the costs of the United Nations and the Americans, and let it all go to our expense now. Then, you have a protected witness, someone accuses you of committing a war crime, any of these 19 crimes provided for in the JVI chapter of the Basic Criminal Code, and you don't know who's accusing you and you don't even have the opportunity to face him in accordance with the Code of Criminal Procedure, which our regulations of course allow. So, a protected witness, a video-conference hearing, you'll just have more wigs and that inquisitor uniform missing, so it'll be a full UN tribunal, because I'm convinced that Mr Batic will make an effort to bring some regulation and then we'll have a UN tribunal in Belgrade. The Code of Criminal Procedure applies, as it says in the law, and I really don't know what it is then, that we can't according to the applicable regulations to judge individual crimes, even if they are war crimes. Why do we need a special law? We're judging by the basic criminal code, we have the Code of Criminal Procedure, this law points us to that, and then we have a special law. Total madness, except that you have this political goal, that is, by imposing that goal on you to declare ourselves criminals and genocide to the people. Those millions of refugees will forget forever. Why is there a particularly large district court wanted here for the trial of suspected war crimes suspects? Because you are convinced that not every judge will agree to judge as you wish, he will not agree to sentence people to prison for up to 40 years on the basis of false and fabricated witnesses. Then you have to choose the worst scum and the worst scum, which you'll add three times as much to pay and give him the benefit of the job, in order to do what you expect him to do. That's outrageous. It's outrageous, despite that special prosecutor we've chosen for trial and prosecution of criminal acts considered organized crime, now this war crimes prosecutor, we're going to have to choose another special prosecutor for traitors. One who will pursue those who have betrayed Serbian national interests. Let's pick another one, round the whole story, and see which of them has the most work to do. The first one is almost out of work, as Minister Mihajlovic went public and said there is no more organised crime in the country, only some who shot Prime Minister Djindjic at large. I don't know how many fired. It was obviously fireworks. He hasn't been able to arrest them yet, but another organized crime in the country. This one won't have anything to do, because I doubt you'll have time to enforce this law, and for this third one we'll think about after the next election, whether it'll be the most appropriate way for those who've ruined this country this much, whether they'll be tried under some special law, or if they can somehow get involved in these existing provisions of Criminal Law. I must say, I'm not surprised that the Democratic Party of Serbia considers this a technical law and is obviously ready to support it, along with some amendments, so I wondered, from the bench, I asked Mr Panajotovic what is the difference between DSS and DS, and he said - in one letter. I really think there's only one difference. Your goals are the same. In methods you are slightly different and we will do everything in our power to prove to the public of Serbia that, in our own own way, we will prove and show it. We, the MPs of the SRS, believe that according to the applicable regulations can be tried for individual guilt to those who have committed some war crimes, not to deny that such a thing exists. We are opposed to the adoption of such a law whose aim is absolutely clear to us, as well as the damage that this law and the application of such a law will have to the Serbian people, and we would not raise our hand to vote this law even if it were our last.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-24-0.u31675	The word is from MP Zarko Obradovic, as Ljubodrag Grbic is not present.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-24-0.u31676	Dear Presidency, fellow MPs, the SPS will not vote in favour of this law on the organisation and jurisdiction of state authorities in proceedings against war crimes offenders for several reasons, and above all because we believe that this law is absolutely political, that it has a marketing significance for the government, that it is made for the international community and that through solutions offered by a single supremation, executive authority over the judiciary. It is very bad for Serbia and the judiciary, the state, that the law is made not in co-operation but obviously with the dictatorship of the international community, and such a relationship has certainly conditioned the solutions contained in this law. On the other hand, it shows that our government has no independence, and it points to the real motives of passing this law. The reasons for the adoption of such a law are political and represent the need to ensure, through some separate, separate legal institutes, the greater influence of the executive authority on the judiciary, the prosecution and the courts. All of what is proposed as a solution to this law on war crimes procedures could be carried out through normal changes to existing laws. This law is also being adopted to ensure greater impact of the executive authority, specifically the Justice Ministry, on some organisational and other solutions that are being made within the framework of such governmental bodies, therefore, courts and prosecutors. The prosecution is further disintegrated by this law. Now, in practice, we have three prosecutors, and besides the D.A., we have an organized crime prosecutor and we have a war crimes prosecutor. Special control of the Ministry of Justice is also introduced, through the granting of consent to the internal normative acts of those bodies, which are related to the internal organisation. Namely, Article 6 and Article 11 of this proposal require the consent of the Ministry of Justice on the internal organisation and internal relations. Allow me, article 6 says, "The war crimes prosecutor brings an act on the internal organisation and systematisation of jobs in the war crimes prosecutor's office, with the agreement of the justice minister. "Article 11 says: "The Belgrade District Court educates a special department to carry out administrative-technical affairs, witness protection jobs and damaged and to provide conditions for the application of the procedural provisions of this law. The work of the special department is governed by an act adopted by the President of the District Court in Belgrade, with the agreement of the ministry responsible for the affairs of the judiciary." The ministry of justice is practically appointed as someone who is responsible for both, which is absolutely contrary to the principles of the division of power, as it is set in the current Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The war crimes proceedings shall be exempt from the jurisdiction of regular judicial authorities and prosecutors and shall be transferred to special authorities. The law prescribes what is considered a war crime. From the point of view of one country's sovereignty, that's unacceptable. Article 2 stipulates that this law provides for the application of the criminal law of the JVI, which speaks of criminal acts against humanity and international law. In this Chapter of the JVI of the Basic Criminal Code, 19 crimes against humanity and international law were counted: from genocide, war crimes against the civilian population, war crimes against the wounded and the patients, and not to read further, to international terrorism, endangering persons under international protection and taking hostages. Article 3 of this Act states that this applies only to works carried out in the area of the former SFRY. What does that mean? This means that a country that has been the victim of NATO aggression is refusing to judge war crimes committed by NATO leaders against the nation's people and this state. That would not be done by any sovereign country that holds to its reputation. However, we can understand but not accept this behavior if the US requests that their citizens - soldiers be exempt from the jurisdiction of the international court in Rome, the newly established, and their request that our country sign a contract that will not hand over the country's citizens to a permanent criminal court. This also seems a negative step further, for the country to deny the right to judge these people in a hidden way. How is it that our courts can now judge what they couldn't do a while ago? How is it that our courts are now able, the judiciary also, no more talking about the conflict of international law and court in The Hague? We are fully convinced that this law is also an expression of the agreement of this so-called so-called law. The Hague court and our authorities now that the UN court has ceased its interest in those people accused of war crimes in our country by giving domestic courts the right to judge, after the extradition, or kidnapping of Slobodan Milosevic, after the capture of Sljivancans, the extradition of Simatovic and Stanisic and others who were interested in The Hague court, now no longer has that interest, and now as a domestic judiciary can judge people who are accused. Of course, we're witnessing that it won't be the end. There are another 17-18 indictments that will certainly be made, they are being talked about, they will surely be subject to the work of The Hague Court and likely some legal form will be found to finish the job. This my thesis is confirmed by article 21. The bill where it says that those processes that are to begin and end, means the processes that are started both in Šapec and Prokuplje should be completed and, of course, The Hague will finish its work, and then we will see how it fits. This shows something else -- that our country used to run processes against war crimes offenders. It's less known, it's almost not said, that the Military Court had over 120 proceedings against those people who committed war crimes, they were accused, but the essence of the whole story is, of course, political. It was not the accused who the international community wanted to be accused of, apparently only in our country was the principle of command responsibility applied. Of course, this law shows that we, the SPS, were absolutely right when we said that domestic justice could have tried those people who were accused of committing war crimes. We think that this law is bad, that there are a lot of marketing in it, because sometimes it offers some solutions that are declared large parts and are actually very small. Such are organizational issues, which are given a great deal of importance, and they are not. The issue of the District Court and elsewhere, the issue of forming a special act in the District Court is an organisational issue and there was really no reason to be the court's case. After all, special solutions had been applied before, and there were no problems. For a short period of time, I'm not in a position to make specific remarks about this law, so let me just focus on two more questions. It is mentioned that the war crimes prosecutor's office will apply the provisions of the Public Prosecutor's Office Act accordingly. However, in such a formulation, it is necessary to point out one extremely dangerous legal precedent, not to decidently apply the provisions of the law in such important matters, but to provide for their respective application, which gives great freedom to this authority and also space for illegal treatment. Such a solution was offered probably out of the desire for this body to look as much like an ad hoc prosecutor's office as possible. In Article 5, an obvious farce has been retained, and it can be seen how much it has been offered to the public. Namely, it says: "The War Crimes Prosecutor is elected by the National Assembly", with that person, as well as his deputies, to meet certain conditions for the election for the district attorney: to possess high moral reputation and impartiality and significant experience in the area of international criminal law and to have knowledge and experience in the field of international humanitarian rights and human rights. If a man were to look at this part of the law, unrelated to another, then he could say that the prosecutor in our country can be the only one, Natasa Kandic, Sonja Biserko, or someone else from NGOs, who has already been well-known as an expert in humanitarian law. However, the next stance shows that this is primarily a marketing character, as it is said to be elected from the current prosecutor's office. (President: Are you using for the next 10 minutes? No, no, no, To finish this first part of the exhibit - the SAA is not for this law because it considers it to be primarily a political character, because it offers solutions that create the basis for the executive power to do what it wants, because it could be tried under the existing law by those who are accused of war crimes. There was no reason, until clean marketing and requires the international community to pass this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-24-0.u31677	The word has the People's Messenger George Mamula. He has the right to speak, as the reason for his absence from the Serbian Parliament was to attend a session of the Constitutional Commission.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-24-0.u31678	The draft law, according to the press, was first given by Mrs. Carla del Ponte, then the Organisation for European Security and Co-operation, and the draft came before the Serbian government and then emerged as a proposal, and the government responded positively and after that order came into the assembly procedure. The reasons for the adoption of this law, according to the text that we have received, are not clear, nor is there an explanation. It's actually written like that to say that there are some reasons, and there are some reasons. First of all, I have to say, there is a question that so far the war crimes committed here seem to have not been investigated because there was no law. Now that we have a bill of law, it will facilitate action in the detection of war crimes committed here. Even this law won't be worth five pairs unless there's a will to truly discover war crimes. Article 3 states: "The state authorities of the Republic of Serbia are designated by this law responsible for the conduct of proceedings against the perpetrators of the crimes referred to in Article 2 of this Act, which were carried out on the territory of the former SFRY". The question arises what about war crimes committed on the territory of SRJ, that is, the territory of Serbia or Kosovo? Is this the Government's predetermined authority and those crimes committed in Serbia's territory, which are made until Resolution 1244, thus suggesting that we do not count on state jurisdiction in this regard or is this a failure? I hope it's a failure after all. I don't mean to be malpractice, but I think this should be corrected and that those powers that we have internationally recognised should not be rejected in this procedure through the laws. Besides, I have to say, there are amazing solutions in Article 5. It says here, among other things, that a candidate for a war crimes prosecutor, besides moral reputation and impartiality, should have significant experience in the area of criminal law. He must have knowledge, he has no experience. There's no experience, there's got to be war crimes, there's got to be procedures. So, experience here doesn't come to terms. It is interesting to have an advantage in the choice, i.e. setting up, those who have knowledge and experience in the field of international humanitarian law and human rights. This is one contradiction. It is simply amazing not to seek knowledge in the area of criminal law and to seek knowledge in the field of humanitarian law and human rights. It is necessary, but this other knowledge is also necessary. Among other things, the war crimes detection service is projected. If so far the competent Home Office, with all its equipment, knowledge, personnel, organization, could not have done anything more serious, the question of where the war crimes detection service is now being raised as a special hope that these crimes will indeed be investigated. However, if the continuation and resources for work are looked at, it can be seen that 220m dinars are foreseen, for the prosecution and the court 50m. I therefore conclude that budget rebalances will be needed, as some studies say the budget deficit is about a billion euros. I wish your economists had made a mistake, but I guess they didn't. This is particularly interesting because of Mr Batic's explanation, which he gave here orally. Namely, he said the other day that Mr Djelic, the finance minister, said the National Bank of Serbia had bankrupted. Then he was denied by Mr. Djelic. If that's what he's saying, then it's not clear why he's behind the bill where he's talking about the funds to 220 million dinars. I don't know from which banks or from which financial institutions they will receive funds, if the minister so irresponsiblely quotes Finance Minister Djelic. The rules of procedure are pretty clear. There's been a procedure so far, such as that. If it was the will to really prosecute these crimes and the existing law was enough. Article 14 provides for a video conference link. That's absolutely unacceptable. The Hague no longer accepts such a form of testimony. The state must guarantee the safety of the witnesses. They must be present or in the courtroom, so that they can be protected, not from some distant rooms or cities to testify. The procedure must be followed, and the state cannot adhere to the principle of "give what you give." We have here proposed a number of amendments, believing that this proposal should be improved. In the spirit of what I have been saying, we have suggested that this law be applied, when voted, and if voted, and for the detection and prosecution of the perpetrators of the crimes provided for in Article 5. The Statute of the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia. So this court should also be responsible for those acts that are being prosecuted by the tribunal. If this country is recognised as credibility, then it must also be recognised in that area. They could no longer accept custody arguments in this regard. The state has to pass the exam here. That's why we proposed that amendment. We have suggested that the jurisdiction of this court also applies to those who have different citizenship, so regardless of the nationality of the perpetrator or the victim, because we think that the interest of justice is important; and in relation to this Article, I mentioned that we believe that the video conference is out of the question, and we recommend these amendments to your attention. So much for now in this speech in principle.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-24-0.u31679	The People's Messenger Zoran Krasic has the word, and after him the Messenger of the people Dusan Budishin.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-24-0.u31680	At first, I would like to draw attention to the MPs that none of us has committed war crimes on our behalf, and that is one of the wrong thesis that has been brought here by the representatives of the government, because none of us individually has authorized anyone to commit any crime, especially the crimes of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. The second wrong thesis here is to divide itself into those who are against this law. The Serbian Radical Party is against this law, but it is also for the criminal responsibility of anyone who has committed one of these crimes that exists in our criminal law, which is 19 crimes from the SRJ's GLAD, which is applicable, and there is no dispute. The Serbian Radical Party is against the bill for several very important reasons. I draw attention to the fact that the National Assembly has no constitutional basis to pass such a law. The constitutional basis exists only as many as there are fans who would vote and say that there is a constitutional basis, but it is already not a matter of rights and the Constitution but of emotion and of carrying out other people's tasks, of achieving other people's interests. A few days ago, in the principle debate, I drew attention to the fact that there is no such thing as any similarity between crimes you misname as war crimes and crimes committed by organized crime, but that there is a huge difference, and this law points to the special application of the provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure concerning the persecution of persons from organised crime. In organised crime, the group's disciplines create crimes, and in war crimes only indiscipline can lead to a criminal offence from the SRJ's Head of the JVI Criminal Code. We're getting to the central thing. The bill was passed by the OSCE, adopted by the Council of Europe, adopted by Carla Del Ponte and who knows who else and if they adopted why you're passing this law and why you're giving it to us. Why do we have to be expendable? I guess we should decide first whether we need the law or not. The third wrong thesis - who is for this law is for us to follow Europe. Wrong thesis. Europe and America split up around the Permanent Court of War Crimes. For a month now, the DOS-Mali government has been reluctant to declare itself and to say whether or not it is a bilateral agreement with America, but apparently a wise silence. They kept quiet until 120 million dollars came, certified by Colin Powell, and now this law can go. This is an offensive law for every citizen of this country. Why? First because he's got the wrong name, it's prejudicial. There is no constitutional basis. Third, we have the competent state authorities and we have the fact that there have been criminal offences committed against the crimes that have been committed by the JVI. A few days ago, this second-degree procedure was closed in the Supreme Military Court, the verdict was passed. Even a few times more rigorous than the first degree. Why are we forming special organs? Should we prove to the special authorities that we're de facto? Is this how we should form a court that will prosecute 2,000 more cases that are being prepared against the police and the military, which took part in some armed conflicts? Someone forgets that armed conflicts and war are the way to solve a conflict that could not be solved by politics and peaceful means. The war on these premises has come from the side. There have been contradictions in the former SFRY, but the war is directly due to interference on the side, inciting secession and inciting and trampling human rights of entire groups of former SFRY residents. We don't need this law. The proof of that is what happened a few days ago. Sljivancanin is the first person to be indicted before The Hague tribunal in 1995. If there had been this efficiency that insisted on the reasons for this law, he would have been convicted already in 1996, and a few days ago this government said that we had evidence that Sljivancanin had no influence and no share in the work being put on him. Justice should be slow. The problem of truth has been processed right, but we need neither the court nor the prosecutor to simulate The Hague tribunal in Serbian space. We are able to deal with it, if there were any abuses, but no one has committed any crime on behalf of all of us and those who place that thesis may remember a little whose thesis. It's the thesis of those who want to run us over, enslave us, cut us short and make us a Belgrade pasture. I now return to the beginning: who is in favour of this law, he is for Serbia to be Belgrade's pasture.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-24-0.u31681	The People's Messenger Dusan Budishin has the word, and after him is the Messenger of the people, Toma Busetic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-24-0.u31682	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, has been said that the Democratic Party of Serbia will support this law. It will support him, but not by sharing such great enthusiasm, as Mr Batic, the minister of justice of the Republic of Serbia, put it behind this speaker. On the other hand, I do not share the finding of Mr Krasic, which he said in his last sentence, because some things need to be broken down. First, in our amendments, which will be explained by Mr Jocic and Mamula, we have pointed to some shortcomings, and even personally I think that unless these amendments are adopted, this law will not have the necessary and appropriate weight. We're all behind it, but with the following notes. The passing of this law by an urgent procedure, as requested by the government of the Republic of Serbia, no doubt suggests what the Democratic Party of Serbia has indicated earlier. If this is an necessity, and in some ways it is, but I repeat not in the way Mr Batic says it, then it is quite certain that this law must have been passed earlier. If this law had been passed earlier, we would not have been in a position to change the federal law on co-operation with The Hague tribunal, which is a member of 39 that allows very broad interpretations and which can cause further movements and unpleasant situations for Serbian citizens. I would not accept the conclusion that by passing this law, as Mr Batic says, they accept the rules of conduct, because the rules of conduct, with all respect for the large and stronger, are simply not the same. That's exactly what our tragedy is, which we've never set a minimum of national interest before. If we had determined that, many of these consequences would have been removed. It hasn't been done in decades by self-government warriors and Kumrov school doctors, and it's just our relapses that we're going to be pulling for a long time. While we are already in this situation, I do not see that blind obedience to both the UN tribunal and the rules of the international community is such a necessity, but some of it must be done, and that is exactly what the greats of the small people, who through various Scylla and Haribdi in history have managed to get their people to a minimum of what they wanted. That's exactly what we're missing. It is said here that we must adopt European standards, but there should be something more in mind: the Hague tribunal itself, and in part the provisions of this law, which we are suggested, however, point to what the Democratic Party of Serbia has pointed out and which is the most disturbing. These are different arches and selective justice. Every lawyer knows what the weight of it is and how much they can be affected by citizens if this one is accepted. Minister Batic also spoke of how when this law is passed then it would be a better situation to prosecute and the crimes of others, not only Serbs, but Albanians; and until now, however, the UN tribunal itself has not accepted one such correct interpretation and all charges have been brought down only to members of the Serbian people, I speak only for the territory of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, and the greatest criminals of Albanian nationality are simply not being prosecuted, but something like that is not even in the face. That should be said to the public and to Mrs Del Ponte who is so zealously taking care of justice in the territory of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, now, of course, Serbia-Montenegro. I will remind, the main reason why the Democratic Party of Serbia will vote for this law is not, of course, in those sweet words that Mr Batic put forth; in our opinion, the only real reason it can be is because of our failure, if you want and the shame that engulfs us by knowing that our courts did not judge those cases that we really had, that was with others more, but also with us; it should have simply been taken into action and then it could not be put on our souls today and that we are objecting to what we are complaining. I will only remind you, ladies and gentlemen, in 1877, Serbia, then the fourth in the world, brought the rules of war according to international law, led precisely by the tradition of the Serbian people and tradition, as it is said in the people, humanity and heroism. It's just like that, it's a fact. Therefore, this law should be supported, but, of course, the Democratic Party of Serbia has reserves in the way of forming an organ that will lead the process. I would agree that a special prosecutor's office is needed. I think that all practitioners would share my opinion, however, I'm not sure whether it's necessary to establish a special court, because our judiciary, if it gets the necessary support, is able to carry out the burden and this part of the criminal law, or these crimes. I'm going to have to say that even at a time when the legal system hasn't yet worked, in a totalitarian state it can hardly work, the only institution that could be trusted as much was the court. It's just like that. Our amendments, ladies and gentlemen, are primarily aimed at what is directly eyed in this bill, which is Article 2 and Article 3. They'll be further more detailed, but they just have to adopt, because without it, we won't have a logical overall, and we won't have the ability to figure out what we really want. Namely, the law applies for the detection and prosecution of the perpetrators of criminal acts provided for in Article 5. The Statute of the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia, and if our amendment is ignored, then we will leave an unnecessarily many crimes against humanity, we will let it continue to be tried as it is tried in The Hague tribunal, not in this country before our courts. The second amendment refers to a quite correct interpretation that it must be said, to make it clear to everyone, to add the concepts - regardless of the nationality of the perpetrator or the victim. What does that mean? This means that there will be no possibility for different interpretations, but simply it will be removed because it will have to be understood in the way it is written. On the other hand, we had and remained quite large objections to Article 14 and Article 15, because I think hearing through a video conference relationship is a bite that our court practice won't swallow. There will be a lot of abuse, and it will result in those citizens who will be, to use the popular word, processed. Finally, Article 15 introduces something that is rightly absurd to us, which is that courts, judicial authorities, are the source of justice, which is simply not possible, but is why our amendment is also directed in this direction to, if envisaged, and to predict that personal data of witnesses and damaged protections must be resolved by a special law where this would be said as well as in any way. If it is left to the courts, then we will come back to the situation that we have arbitrary interpretation, and there can be damage only to our citizens again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-24-0.u31683	The right to reply, MP Zoran Krasic, the basis for the replica, directly mentioning in the presentation of the previous speaker.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-24-0.u31684	It's a simple misunderstanding. If we were to accept this legal logic that exists in this bill, then it means that in five days' time, a proposer with a new law would come here, where he would provide for a special prosecutor and a special court for the trial of crimes against honor and reputation, and within 15 days with a new bill on the establishment of a special prosecutor and a special court for the trial of crimes against the life and work of a man and a citizen. That's the logic that exists in this bill. The criminal code of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia must not be derived from criminal and legal matter. She's in charge of all the courts and all the prosecutors. And now in the prosecution there's a narrow specialization, so it's known both in the municipal and district public prosecutor's office if it's a robbery going to that and that deputy public prosecutor, if it's a fake going to this other one. There's no other reason than the central one, and that's a denectation. She's coming down to the next one. That's what you didn't understand. This is where one false dilemma is created: either this law, or everyone in The Hague. The Hague doesn't want 2,000 people. The Hague tried in Sofia to form an out-of-state department of The Hague tribunal, so the Bulgarians did not allow it. That's true. And that false dilemma is based on the following -- if you go to The Hague, then the international community condemns it by some rules, but if you form it in Serbia, then you throw the ashes on yourself, admit it, you still have a special court to form, because someone in our name did. No one in our name did. Nobody. It is likely that some events are caused by the fact of armed conflict, and probably some rematchism. That should be condemned. Please, anyone who comes out to talk about war crimes, take a look at some paperwork. From 1945 to 1953, the state commission collected documentation on acts of genocide and war crimes. It's a form of documentation. Regular courts then ended business, criminal responsibility. Why are we forming special? We're distracting, we're repenting. Why do we repent? Because we were defending our house and our own threshold. Please don't do this. We've got our courts, we've got our D.A.'s office, we've got it, we've got it. Let's put in provisions, in the end, on cross-examination and on mandatory stenogram management and the end of the story. It can be done. Why didn't you do it when you were in power for three years, why didn't you do it... (President: three minutes. Who was stopping you? The Hague? Obligatory co-operation, trade, five million dollars for Milosevic, for this much, for that much. It's the only export business we're doing. I wish this money was invested in agriculture. They're investing in a detention unit, for judges. What judges? The children of some lawyers and some interns who have no idea.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-24-0.u31685	National MP, three minutes and 30 seconds. The word has a folk MP Toma Busetic, followed by MP Petar Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-24-0.u31686	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the proposal for this law is another courtship for certain circles in the international community. All over the people's -- which Carla del Ponte missed, it was welcomed by Batic and Mihajlovic. Why is a special law being passed anyway? Obviously, they did not provide any legal reasons, but political reasons. The passing of this law aims to open another UN tribunal's outcast department in Belgrade, the formation of special courts, prosecutors' offices. It would only be justified under conditions that no one has been extradited to The Hague so far. But today in The Hague are the most visible Serbs, beginning with Slobodan Milosevic, and ultimately with Colonel Sljivancanin. Which of the Croats, Muslims or Shipara are in The Hague today for crimes committed against the Serb people? Nobody. In the former Yugoslavia, there was a civil war, which began and imposed some others, primarily external factors, and then Croats, Muslims and Shipers. What is our sin in all this? It is a sin to say that all Serbs should be in the same state, because they were in the same state. Where the people were, they had to be in the same state, that there was justice, and I mean Bosnia and Croatia first and foremost. When it comes to Kosovo and Metohija, you're probably all aware here, in the O.R., that the bombing was done you know why, because of the endangered human rights of Shipara. Were the human rights of the Shipar threatened? When it comes to the law itself, Articles 2 and 3 determine what is considered a war crime, which is a territory, and first of all refers to the former SFRY, not the SRJ. Why does this government deny jurisdiction for those crimes that have really been committed in our country, which are crimes primarily the NATO Pact. No sovereign state would do this, but it's obvious that our country today, under this authority, is not a sovereign state. How did our courts suddenly become able to judge, here in the country? How come suddenly we have a primate over the Hague Tribunal? This power will say - The Hague is inevitable, it is necessary, we must cooperate with the world, or we must obey. A few days ago, the Prime Minister said - after the extradition of Sljivancanin, this is the last or more, but we end by the end of this year, that half an hour later (or one day) spokeswoman Florence Artman would say 18 more, and of course there would be a lot more people. Government Minister Bozidar Djelic said, same after the handover of Sljivancanin -- there will be no more conditions from the West; that this spokesman Richard Baucher would immediately say - how he will not, we continue to demand absolute and full co-operation with The Hague. Of course, I wonder, what will be improved by this law? Will the Serbs now be able to return to Croatia? He won't. Whoever comes back, either gets arrested or gets killed. Will the Dayton Agreement be implemented in Bosnia and Herzegovina? He won't. The international representative only changes Serbs, both Ashdown and Westendorp and that Petrich. Today, Covic says, after three years, there is fascism in Cosmet. We were saying long ago that that's how the problem of Kosovo and Metohija was solved in 1998, but the NATO Pact came. In the law itself, some issues are particularly potent, such as the establishment of a war crimes detection service. Why the special accent on this service? Don't we have enough cops? Earlier, this government said that 100,000 police officers, so many special forces, and now we have both the gendarmes and the various special forces. Why special service? Obviously, this is the most important task of this government. On the other hand, why especially the prosecution, why special courts? In order, apparently, to be judged by this authority. When we talk about Article 14, about hearing through video conference links, it is only a good opportunity for various mounted processes; or this again, such as in The Hague, is the introduction of protected witnesses. So, in Serbia, as in The Hague, we will have a lot of these false witnesses, the human beings who are today against Milosevic, and he, with his brilliant defense, breaks all their statements into parades. They predict, of course, both special salaries for both the prosecution and the judges, because it counts that this will make it much more effective. Whether these salaries are necessary for these unhonorable tasks or for that money should be directed, and they are 250 million dinars, both for pensioners and for education and unemployment, because everywhere the situation is very difficult. Finally, what is to be said, this law is in the spirit of the statement by top state officials both Serbia and this state union of Serbia-Montenegro. After all, a few days ago, Jeffrey Nyss, this deputy Carla del Ponte, quoted Marovic and Djukanovic, as Marovic said in the 1990s (and I want to say what it means when we have blackmailed politicians). Marovic said -- Serbs have been worse in the civil war in the 1990s than Jews in Germany. Djukanovic said -- we also need to talk to Ustashas, those bloodsuckers that broke our country. That's what they said in 1991, 1992, 1993, and today they most resolutely advocate The Hague and are impressed by Colin Powell's co-operation and attitude. The people are sick of being blackmailed by politicians and those who have long been in the full power of foreign mentors. Of course, we won't vote for this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-24-0.u31687	The People's MP Petar Cvetkovic has the word, followed by MP Milos Lukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-24-0.u31688	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in the past 20 months, a new draft law from the domain of the judiciary, and specifically from the domain of criminal law, most specifically. Let us remind ourselves that for this period of time, we have several times changed criminal laws, or material criminal law, that we have several times changed procedural laws, both the Law on Criminal Procedure and the Law on the Treatment of Organized Crime, that we have several times changed that set of laws in the domain of the judiciary on judges, the Law on Public Prosecutors. About every session is on the agenda of some of these laws. What's he saying? Is this about the safe, professional work of this assembly or the same work of the Republic Government or, on the contrary, is it about the fact that the Republic Government as a legislator of these laws does not have a strategy? Not only has there been no strategy, no vision, no steps ahead, two steps ahead, no solution for the situation in which Serbia is presently. Exchanges for the purposes of the amendments have been common in this House, with neither the voice of those who criticise it nor the fact that it is established or unfounded, but the Republic Government, or a representative of the Government, is at all times obliged to sit in this Parliament and hear the objections that we are constantly making, particularly on this domain of justice, or criminal law, and to include this free and civil law. So the proof of this is that the Republic Government, or the authorised representative, has failed in a huge number of cases to hear objections and keep that promise since December 2001, when Mr Batic promised to codify criminal law very urgently and very quickly. From that to this day, there's nothing. Today there is no announcement that anything will be done, but we have a new bill establishing new prosecutors, a new court council, a new detention unit, all specifically compared to the general. This may be in good interest, however, we cannot talk about good intentions, when certain specific principles, i.e. special courts or procedures, are being ceded for everything and everything specific to the general principles. Special courts, special procedures, special prisons, special prosecutors are more appropriate to some other state arrangements and some different social structures than Serbia's. Our goal was, that is, to promote the Republic government, to arrive as soon as possible, at least be close to developed democratic states. This way we go deeper and further and further, or not further, but the democratic and developed countries are running away from us. This bill is given with an explanation in two sentences or three sentences. He says, given the specificities of the criminal case against the war crimes offender, it is necessary to enable the hearing of witnesses or damaged by video conference link and so on. A new case in law-making. Oral reasoned proposals are very short. Written arguments are identical in respect of each of the laws. The solutions are getting more and more special, which, gentlemen, we're participating, may be too strong, but in the collapse instead of perfecting the legal system (when I say the legal system, I mean exactly the criminal property of civil law), which as much as it worked and I would remind you that in recent times this country has had exceptional experts from both criminal and civil law. Instead of building up procedural laws, as well as material laws, from this domain, we introduce new solutions without any analysis. And this law, as before, has no analysis. Whether the government or whether the departments in charge have conducted some analysis, which is why, as they popularly wish to say, no criminal acts have been prosecuted from this war crimes domain. Why wasn't it meant to be, was it first, and why wasn't it meant to be? If there were, in particular, criminal acts of war crime, whether or not the defendant is a judiciary, when we know that the courts are on the basis of a public prosecutor's request and that the court can't initiate a trial. Are there any such processes that have not been completed by a judicial verdict, in which case would the judiciary be wrong? Did the public prosecutors press charges, or were they prosecuted for these crimes? If they are not, why are they not when we know that the trend of the previous 10, 15 years has continued, and especially for these two years, that public prosecutors are currently being sought by the regime's listeners, in this case listeners of the Republic Government and the back DOS, or the rest of the DOS. Why didn't these prosecutors take the heat? Who guarantees us and where are those analyses that a special prosecutor would do exactly what he needs and that he would just begin to pursue this kind of crime. Does the establishment of this special prosecutor have an end to the establishment of specialized prosecutors, courts, larger, special prisons, and where is the end? I ask as a lawyer, what will remain of the basic principles set out in the Criminal Procedure Act, if for each domain, we establish special prosecutors, special proceedings, special detention units, special councils? In this case, there were no arguments and apparently the Republic Government, or the Ministry was not at the height to give an explanation of this law. This bill is only one of the more laws, as I said, of amending the law from this domain of criminal law, only one of those laws that can least endure criticism, regardless of what I have referred these criticisms now. Compared to the law, it is possible to accept it and we know why it is necessary to accept it, but if it was a little psychic, the republican government should have known a year or two ago that such a law should come and that there would be a requirement to pass such a law. I will remind you, when we pointed out that a law on co-operation with The Hague tribunal was needed, when the Democratic Party of Serbia said it, those famous legal experts said there was no need for legislation and that co-operation could be without law. After that, the insistence to pass the law, and yet they call the Democratic Party of Serbia as the brakes for adoption, allegedly, regardless of what it has initiated and even more than once has been obstructed, then assume the role of those who propose that they are just passing legislation on co-operation with The Hague. There's a different case here. War crimes are at stake here, and there was no interference. The government is not prevented from running the case through the prosecution. They have achieved complete control over both the prosecution and the judiciary during this time. I'd say it's not the fault of the war crimes trial so far or the trial of a small number of prosecutors or judges or judges, because maybe you won't agree with me, this country has most of the good judges and most of the good legal professionals who work in the judiciary. They were placed at this time (not a topic, but only in one sentence) in the position that they are under constant control, under constant pressure from the Ministry and the current republican authorities, so that they are literally not allowed to do anything without direct orders or intervention. Therefore, it cannot be their fault for not conducting the procedure, i.e., popularly speaking, non-processing these crimes of war crimes. There's no guilt at all, and there's no way a prosecutor can be found, while we're already at his place, which, by the way, my predecessors from the DSS have made it very clear that the solutions in the law are, at the very least, problematic about the choice of a special prosecutor, about the war crimes prosecutor. The war crimes prosecutor must be found within the framework of those experts who have already worked in the prosecution and why he would now be more professionally appointed as a war crimes prosecutor, not with experience, as Mr. Mamula said, because experience has nothing to do with knowledge, only because he would get a second name, or new name of his job. Those solutions are problematic in that sense, just when we're talking to a public prosecutor, where he says - the prosecutor can be elected. Why -- could it be, I guess they say, and it should be nice standing -- they'll be chosen. So, "can be elected, and for his deputy appointed, a person who meets the conditions for the election for the district attorney and has a high moral reputation and impartiality and significant experience in the area of criminal law. The advantage of the election is that persons who have knowledge and experience in the field of international humanitarian law and human rights. "I think it's almost clear here, just missing a photo. However, Article 5(5) indicates that, at the end of his post in the war crimes prosecutor's office, the public prosecutor, i.e. the deputy, is returning to his post in the public prosecutor's office. Some mistake has been committed to the legislator, because this fifth position implies that he cannot be elected outside the public prosecutor's office, and this third position has been made descriptively, only to deliver a photo of the candidates. There's more to that kind of illogicality. In addition, what is pointed out is that under Article 2 of the Law, the law is said to apply to criminal acts set out in the Basic Criminal Code Chapter of the JVI. I'll get it over with. However, not all crimes known to the tribunal's Statute or the statute of the International Criminal Court are found in GVA's Basic Criminal Code. A complete group of crimes is missing against humanity in Article 5. The tribunal's statutes. There is also a lack of violations of the laws and customs of war laid down in Article 3. The tribunal's statutes. The General Criminal Code shall know them in part in Articles 146. - 151, but it's far less than Article 3. The tribunal's statutes are also a very important amendment to this article by the DSS. Without amendments to the DSS, although I do not know whether the government will adopt it, it is a completely different essence of this bill and it will prove, unless the DSS amendment is adopted, only by the day-to-day political desire of the authorities to win some points, whether foreign or domestic political. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-24-0.u31689	National MP Milos Lukic is not present. The word has a folk MP, Bojana Aleksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-24-0.u31690	Yesterday, at a joint session of two committees, for security and justice, we first heard there was a Hague lobby in this country. I have to admit that we at the DSS didn't know about such a party division and that we were in some way surprised, a team before we knew whether those who invented this division had us classified in the Hague or in the anti-Hax lobby. We don't think of ourselves as either. Since President Kostunica became president of the SRJ, we have clearly defined our relationship to The Hague tribunal and to the people who have committed war crimes. We were aware that the Hague must be co-operated if we want to return to the international community and enter the European institutions, but we also kept trying to point out first and foremost the need for the adoption of the Co-operation Law with the UN tribunal at a time when there was no readiness with other DOS members. Later, however, they agreed, and with delay such a law was passed. However, we must also mention some cases of some of our citizens and citizens of Republika Srpska who are still handed over to the tribunal in a slightly wild way, without law and on the legal side of it quite controversial, which is why their human rights are primarily violated. Because if we're going to swear on these human rights, then we should all respect them, and then those human rights have even the accused and the accused. We have pointed out from the beginning that it would be best for our citizens to be tried in our country and in all cases where possible, so in all cases where there are no explicit demands and the express interest of the UN tribunal, it is better for people suspected of war crimes to be tried in this country. And that's to all the citizens of the former SRJ, of all the nationalities, because we are aware that there was a civil war in this country, that civil war is, as a rule, more cruel than any other war, that a citizen's war is usually hit by a neighbor, that there are all kinds of things going on, that some accounts from the past that don't have much to do with politics, and that's why very often there are really terrible crimes. We are not for the amnesty of criminals from whatever side they come from, but we are also not for only the Serbians to be tried and to admit that we are a criminal people, as unfortunately some in this country often want to present themselves. What I'm particularly concerned about when we talk about this law, which should certainly have been brought before, and which could certainly have saved some people from going to The Hague, is this Article 5, where it's defined to look like a special prosecutor. My colleagues in the DSS already told me before that there are very inaccurate interpretations, and I personally don't really understand what high moral reputation means, that we don't talk about the language of this kind of a sentence, high moral reputation and impartiality and significant experience in the area of criminal law. Well, for every prosecutor and every judge, for every judicial officer, doesn't it mean he has to be impartial? Is that something you should especially emphasize? It's in a conflict with the very word of justice and the word of justice. What does a high moral reputation mean? We all know what high morals mean, where that word of reputation comes from, I guess someone who's respected in his profession, so that's relative, you know. Anyone can have a favorite. As for such a formulation that the preference of choice, i.e. setting, has persons who have knowledge and experience in the field of international humanitarian law and human rights, there have also, my colleagues have already expressed some reserve and mentioned some names which, unfortunately, in the last year, for a year and a half do not come down from our television. These are some people who represent themselves as members of NGOs, and in fact they are close to the government, and they speak as if they are not members of this people, but as if they hate this people. If by this law they will be judged justly, if the purpose of this law is to condemn people who have actually committed war crimes, regardless of their nationality, then this law is acceptable to us. If this law should serve newly-roasted Serbs, the enamored Serbs of Tito's time, when everyone in this country could be both Croats and Slovenes and Macedonians and whatever it takes, only a Serb could not be a Serb, and when in some way it was a shame to be a Serb, it was forced by Tito and Cardellj, unfortunately, there are a lot of their students and followers exactly Serbs who behave according to their doctrine, and if such ones come to judge by this law, then it is not good for our people. I'm afraid in that case this law will not fulfill its purpose. Finally, let me say one more thing. When we talk and talk about it yesterday, and it has to do with the adoption of this law, both Slobodan Milosevic and the leaders of the former regime, it should be said that these people, and we from the DSS pointed out in time, should first and foremost be judged by the Serbian people. They committed no crimes against Muslims and Croats. They have brought this people into misery, they have destroyed our lives, they have brought our sons into a war where Serbia has not participated. Since that war, our children have returned mutilated. They sent some people there who were our shame and shame and who freed Serbian houses from the refrigerators, TVs and savings that remained behind. These people were, first of all, to be tried here and to be judged by this people. The evidence against them and their misdeeds is first and foremost in this country.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-24-0.u31691	The word is made by MP Milovan Radovanovic, and then by MP Milan Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-24-0.u31692	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, reminders, everything related to co-operation with The Hague tribunal, as regards the extradition of the person, is contrary to Article 47(2). The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which says, "The citizen of the Republic of Serbia cannot be deprived of citizenship, banished or extradited." Also, to remind you that Germany had to change its constitution to deliver it to the UN tribunal in order to deliver it to other states, which are on its territory. Secondly, with the Americans and The Hague tribunal, you have already completed the job of condemning the Serbian people and the state for everything that has happened since 1991. Your confirmation is that a large number of Serbs are located in The Hague tribunal: Seselj, Krajisnik, Milosevic and others. Now you might be able to determine a local community for a further trial of the people you say are war criminals. How can you in Article 3? A bill to determine the jurisdiction of the court in Serbia for what was happening in the premises of the former SFRY? For example, there has been some crime of war in Slovenia, is the perpetrator of Slovenia's citizen, and how can the greater for the war crimes of the District Court be tried by this case? In Article 15, introduce a protected witness institute. Is that by the principle of your controversial businessman, Ljubisha Buhe Chumeta, who is named in some proceedings as a protected witness or some protected witness whom you are trying to impose on The Hague tribunal and you are already paying him enormous bills for electricity - 80, 90 and more thousands of dinars just to lobby him. You're saying in the bill that a witness hearing is needed. The witness hearing, just to confirm the possible guilt of the person, and when it comes to looking for witnesses to defend certain persons you have accused of war crimes, then that defense makes it difficult to collect evidence, trial and arrest. For the second month, Serbian Radical Momir Markovic has been in custody, only because of similar actions he has taken to collect evidence. You're talking about effective facial detection. You are saying everything in favor of what should not be done, and you are preventing the effective detection of the person for the defense of the convicts, whether they are convicted before the UN tribunal or will be charged and convicted by this law the next day. You know what we Serbian radicals think of most of the Croatian people. Simply, they don't stand for us genetically, not to say they hate us, but you should, in particular, be ashamed when Stjepan Mesic, the president of Croatia, passed on the paper on June 16th of this year, says, "I would meet with General Ante Gotovina and I will do whatever it takes to ensure him a quality and good defence." You here in Serbia are doing the opposite. Furthermore, this matter of criminal-legal liability is already in Glava ĐVI in 19 criminal acts, so it is not necessary to propose a new law on these or similar criminal acts. In light of the law on co-operation with The Hague tribunal, which is anti-constitutional, there is only pro-forma. He serves you and exists only to implement the procedure and extradition of the person to The Hague. That's the case with Veselin Sljivancan, and that's the case with this law. To whom the Americans tell you, you will condemn him in advance, and formally carry out the procedure. There will be no real determination of guilt and responsibility of the person. Why is the name of the law against a war criminal? Well, you're in front of the defendants you're calling war criminals. How is that possible? Perhaps it would be better to stand - in the process of determining war crimes. You in that system, Sonja Brkic, that the person against whom a criminal is filed is a criminal. Where did that come from? Or, when it says that it will somehow regulate the application of the valid detention retroactively, etc. You are saying that the aim of this bill is more effective in implementing the procedure. Well, we already have three procedures with this bill. The law on criminal proceedings, the Law on Co-operation with The Hague tribunal and this bill, which will be the law on the same crimes, will then have three and more procedures. Further, wages, benefits, etc. I don't have time anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-24-0.u31693	The word has a National MP Milan Radulovic (not present). The next registered speaker is MP Sreten Mitrovica, followed by MP Dragan Jocic. In the O.R., neither is MP Dragan Jocic. After MP Dragan Jocic, the word is made by MP Branislav Vakic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-24-0.u31694	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, raises the question of why a special law on war crimes is being passed, when we already have laws that regulate the same legal matter. We have the Code of Criminal Procedure, we have Criminal Law, we have special laws. All of what is proposed as a solution to this law on war crimes procedures could be carried out through normal changes to existing laws. The creation of an ad hoc court is a violation of all basic legal principles of every legal order. The draft law on the organisation and jurisdiction of state bodies against war crimes offenders is a court established to monitor one group for acts committed and, if not completely, one specific group of people is programmed to pursue those who are deprived of the right to equality. A court which is formed on one basis by definition alone is discriminatory, unable to apply justice equally to other offences. Such a court represents a weapon against the chosen enemies in order to combat conflicting interests and prosecutions on political charges, and the bill of war crimes creates a forced conviction. The investigator, prosecutors and administrative staff to be found in this interim, let's call the tribunal to investigate the crimes charges committed have failed to fulfil their obligations if there is no verdict. Few of the judges appointed to serve such a court will feel that they have the freedom to free anyone other than the most irrelevant or wrongly accused. The officials, or as Minister Batic said the bill was adopted by the OSCE and the Council of the European Union, are the same ones that formed The Hague tribunal in order to harm and Satanise their enemies, and have fully protected themselves with a propaganda avalanche led against the indictees. Will a court be formed this way, or will the court dare to ask the question of criminal bombings, carried out by NATO aggressor planes against unprotected civilians, their homes, schools, hospitals, energy plants and others; bombings that directly took the lives of thousands of people, which caused material damage to billions of dollars. Who should be held responsible for the destruction of Serbia's cities, who is responsible for the attacks on a column of refugees in Kosovo and Metohija, and is it not a crime when cluster bombs fell on hospitals in Nis, Aleksinac and other cities across Yugoslavia? Will NATO and America be responsible for the injuries resulting from the signing of the peace agreement in 1999, when they entered Kosovo and Metohija as security forces? Instead of ensuring the safety of all citizens and cultural heritage, we have a persecution of about 250,000 Serbs and non-Albanians, kidnapping, killing and ruins. Just as they started with the help of Albanian enemy gangs who encouraged and encouraged them before aggression and now help them achieve their goals. That the situation in Kosovo is still disastrously confirmed by Deputy Prime Minister and head of the Nebojsa Covic Co-ordination Centre, who only now saw the situation in Kosovo and Metohija at the edge of fascism. I hope that it is clear to all of us that adapting or, as the people say, courting the international community has not helped improve the situation in Kosovo, and surely this law will not contribute to better co-operation in general, so we Socialists will not vote for this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-24-0.u31695	The word is made by MP Dragan Jocic. He's not there. The word has been given by MP Branislav Vakic, followed by MP Dragisa Djokovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-24-0.u31696	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the position of the Serbian Radical Party is clear that all those who committed war crimes should respond, but before domestic courts, according to existing law. It is known that in The Hague, Serbs are tried for not only one nation to blame for the war. What about those who are initiators of that war, i.e. The ones who ordered and participated in this war? It is the countries of the West, the great military forces which, by God knows which way through history, want the Balkans, more precisely Orthodox and disobedient Serbia. Who will judge those who sent soldiers and officers, then arm and participate in the fight against the former JNA, the legal army of the internationally recognised state of Yugoslavia? It is about soldiers and officers of foreign countries within NATO, then mercenaries and adventurers from the Foreign Legion and religious fanatics from Arab countries and Turkey. There were a lot of blacks from Africa who were identified for Muslims, Turks and anti-Serbs in Bosnia. Who will judge those who sent young people from Bosnia and Herzegovina for military training in Turkey? Against Sulejman Ugljanin, the Supreme Military Court conducted a criminal offence against the territorial integrity of the country and terrorism. He's been released by foreign forces, today by the occupiers of our beautiful country. Who's going to judge those who started the war on the premises of the former Yugoslavia? Who will judge NATO officers for the bombing of the Serbian Krajina and Republika Srpska? The Ustasha Army, assisted by its co-workers from the former Republic of Croatia, which was still part of Yugoslavia, has been killing JNA soldiers throughout Croatia. Wasn't that paramilitary, and who's going to judge them today? It is well known to all of us where weapons of paramilitary came from in Ustasha Croatia. More than 67 Serbian villages and villages were leveled with land by Ustashas at the beginning of the war on the hill-mounted Psunj and Papuk. Who's going to judge them? Who will judge those who at the beginning of the war in Bosnia from Srebrenica under the command of Naser Oric attacked the Serb village of Kravica and killed all Serbs, or Skelana where they killed 63 Serbs, and there were children. Following Skelan's capture along with mujahedin's mortar fires, they attack via Drina and Baja's Basta in Serbia. Who's going to judge them? Evidence for atrocities and the beginning of war on the premises of the former Yugoslavia has plenty. We Serbian radicals as a national and patriotic party, which has sent its volunteers to war to defend the country with our army against foreign forces and domestic traitors, are proud of its volunteers. Among them were the Serbs, and many, Croats, Macedonians, Slovaks, Russians, Russians, Bulgarians, Greeks, Muslims and others. Evidence has progress, thousands of witnesses, as well as written documents. May anyone who has committed a crime and who has started a war on the premises of the former Yugoslavia. In these difficult times for our people, a beautiful and beautiful song has been sung, especially for the ruling party: "It is not easy for a Serb to be, with a stone water to drink. Another Serb could have a moment if he didn't have a villain of his own milk, his own blood."
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-24-0.u31697	National MP Dragisa Djokovic is not present, but since we are finishing work for the day, then Parliament's work continues tomorrow at 10.00 hours of debate in a principled search. The first registered speaker is MP Dragisa Djokovic, followed by MP Rada Bajic and then MP Dragan Lazic. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the ninth extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2003, called for 17 June 2003 - today is the fifth day of work. I would like to inform you that, according to the official record, 87 MPs attend, and to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that using the electronic system has established that we have a quorum to work with. I inform the National Assembly that they are prevented from attending the following MPs: Marko Jaksic, Milan Radulović, Miodrag Jaćimović, Dusan Budisin, Bosko Ristic, Petar Misic and Jon Cisamaš, and in the morning, Teodora Vlahovic. We move to the 5th item of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF THE ORGANISATION AND AUTHORITY OF THE COUNTRY OF THE COUNTRY OF THE COUNTRY OF THE COUNTRY OF THE COUNTRY IN THE AUTHORITIES Is he present in the O.R.? No, I don't. ) After him, MP Rada Bajic. Is he present? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Rada Bajic, followed by MP Dragan Lazic.
