ParlaMint-RS_2003-03-13-0.u26994	Dear People's MPs, I am opening a session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia during the state of emergency, held in accordance with Article 79(4). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 4(4). Emergency measure law. I invite you to pay our respects and respects to the tragically deceased Dr Zoran Djindjic, Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia. May his eternal glory be, and thank you. The proposal by the Government of the Republic of Serbia for the declaration of emergency, the decision to declare state of emergency and the Order on special measures during emergency has been sent to the National Assembly, in accordance with Articles 3 and 4. Emergency measure law. On the basis of Article 83, point 8. Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Articles 1 and 5. The Act on Emergency Measures ("The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia", No. 19/91), on the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, acting as President of the Republic of Serbia, to prevent further consequences that may endanger the sovereignty, constitutional order and security of our Republic, brings the following act: THE ORGANISATION ON SPECIFIC MEASURES FOR THE TIME OF EXTRANSION 1. This order limits certain freedoms and rights of man and citizen established by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and determines the special competences of state authorities during the emergency. 2. A person who threatens the security of other citizens or the security of the Republic, the Ministry of Interior can be forced to bring and retain in the official premises for up to 30 days. The application of measures for bringing and holding shall be adopted a solution to which an appeal by the Minister of the Interior may be made. The person referred to in Article 1(1) shall not have the right to defend himself in the sense of the Code of Criminal Procedure. The interior ministry will inform the family of the 1st item on the application of measures to bring and detain, if possible. 3. The Minister of the Interior may temporarily restrict or prohibit the movement of persons in public places or certain areas, as well as order individual persons to stay in their place of residence, or residence with the obligation to report. The Minister of the Interior may order the closure of all access to a specific space or facility and shall prevent the leaving of that space and facility without authorisation. 4. The Director of the Security and Information Agency may, in accordance with certain natural and legal persons, take measures which deviate from the principle of non-violence of the secret letter and other means of disclosure and without the decision of the competent court. 5. An authorised official shall enter the other person's apartment and other premises, and without the decisions of the competent court, if necessary for the detection and capture of perpetrators of criminal offences which have the grounds for suspicion of being associated with organised crime, the finding of traces of these crimes and of cases relevant to the criminal proceedings. Six. It's abolished right on strike. Seven. It shall be prohibited to convene and maintain assemblies and other public gatherings of citizens subject to prior application by the Ministry of Interior in accordance with the law. 8. Political, trade union and other activities aimed at disrupting and preventing the application of measures during an emergency are prohibited. Nine. Public information, press disseminating and other information on the reasons for declaring the state of emergency and applying measures at a time of emergency is prohibited, except for the transmission of official statements by the competent state authorities. The implementation of the measure under item 1 of this item is being addressed by the Ministry of Culture and Public Information, in co-operation with the Ministry of the Interior. Ten. This order takes effect on the day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". In Belgrade, 12 March 2003 W.D. The president of the Republic of Natasa Micic I hereby conclude a session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia during the state of emergency. I thank the Members of the People.
