ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-04-0.u30604	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening a session of the Eighth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2003. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, we have a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I inform you that the following MPs will be absent: Dragan Lazic, Marko Jaksic, Dragica Radulović, Nenad Bogdanović, Milan Markovic, Dragan Šutanovic, Dragasa Marinković, Sava Popadić, Goran Ćirić, Ljubodrag Grbić, Nebojsa Leković, Vladimir Dobrosavljevic, Aleksandar Stefanović and Istvan Išpanovic. I would like to inform the National Assembly that they have been invited to attend: the President and Vice-President of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Ministers of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. We should move on to the adoption of the logs from the previous session, but since we don't have the quorum to decide, we'll decide at the next session, when we have the quorum to decide. You have received the resignation of Professor Dragan Veselinov as Minister of Agriculture and Water Management in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I remind you, Article 202 is paragraph 4. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly are scheduled for the National Assembly to find, without a search, that a member of the Government resigned and not to decide. According to Article 202(4). Rules of Procedure, the National Assembly finds that Professor Dragan Veselinov resigned as Minister of Agriculture and Water Management in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with a call from the Eighth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly, which was convened at the request of a group of 86 MPs, pursuant to Article 79(3). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 162. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly have been sent to you for the maintenance of the Eighth Extraordinary Session, with the agenda set out in that request. As you could see, for the Eighth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly in 2003, the following Dn e v n e d: 1. A bill on the foundations of the education and education system, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. We're going to work on a set agenda. You have received the bill of law submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs: Nenad Lemajić, Milan Radulović, Bojana Aleksić, Vladimir Andrić and Marina Stamenković; Branislav Ivković, Dragan Tomić, Stevan Gudurić, Zoran D. Nikolić, Slobodan Tomović and Milan Stanković; Rade Bajic and Toma Bušetić; Ljubomir Mucić and Zarko Obradić; Đura Lazić and Sreten Mitrović; Dragan Jodorić and Milan Janković; Rajko Baralić and Živodarka Dacin; Bora Stanimirović and Žarko Obradović; Radojko Petrić and Mružić Rajažić and Mrović Žažić; Boražan Žažažić; Miražan Žažan Žažan Žažić and Mražić Žažić Žažić Žažić; Miražić and Miražić Žažić Žažić Žažić; Mirko Žarić Žarić; Mirko Žović and Mirko Žarić Žarić Žarić Žarić Žarić Žarić and Žaković; Mirkožić and Žarić and Žarić Žarić Žarić Žarić Žarić Žarić Žarić; Žarić and Žarić Žarić and Žarić Žarić Žarić Žarić Žarić Žarić and Zradić Zradić; Žrad; Žradić Žradić Žradić Žradić; Žrad; Žradić and Žrad; Žrad; Žrad; Žrad and Žradić Žradić Žradić and Žrad; Žradić and Zrad; Žradić and Zrad; Drag; Drag Žalić Žalić Žrad; Drag; Drag Žrad; Drag Žradić and Krajkić; Drag Žrad; Drag Žrad Kraj Žradić and Kraj Krad Kradić and Krad Krad J.; Drag; Drag, Drag; Drag, Drag and Zradić and Zradić and Zradić and Zradić and Zradić and Zradić and Zradić; Dragžić You have received reports from the Committee on Education and the Legislative Committee. At the meeting of the Committee on Education of Opinions, the MPs were: Bojana Alexic, Milan Radulović, Vladimir Andric, Vladimir Garčević and Bora Stanimirović, members of the Committee. At the meeting of the Committee on Education of the Amendment, MPs: Bratislav Đuric and Marin Kresic, member 108, Neda Arneric, member 108 and Dragan Tomic, representative of the amendment group of MPs, member 126. On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure, the subject of the debate, will not be the amendment of MP Vlasimir Budimivic to Article 108, who rejected the Legislative Committee as incomplete and the amendment of MP Zelj Huric to members 60, 61, 53, 67, 83 and 122, which the Legislative Committee rejected as non-timers. I ask the parliamentary groups, as long as they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 136(1) of the Treaty, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a search in principle. I ask, does the proposalor's representative, the minister of education and sports, Mr. Gašo Knezevic want a word? Here's a word from the Minister of Education and Sports, Mr. Gašo Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-04-0.u30605	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is ahead of us with a proposal for a new law that would have a roof to regulate the matter of primary and secondary education. I'd like to start with three examples, see the problems our schools face, and our education system encounters. The first example concerns time scales, or weather problems. Let's just assume that the average teacher has 20 years of work experience, which literally means he went to college 25 years before this moment where we're looking at things. He passed a state exam 18 years ago. It means that, in any case, between 20 and 25 years of age, is the moment when he accumulated knowledge, when knowledge is most needed and at this moment in which he holds the hour. Take it to teach a kid who's 10, 11, 12 years old, who's going to finish school in five years, plus college for five years, in 10 years, and who's going to get a job in 12 years. If you add these prime numbers - 25 plus 12, 25 years past and 12 futures, you get to the figure of 37. You know, the knowledge that's been accumulated 37 years earlier, you educate a man in the future. Is that normal? That's the first question. In 37 years, did science progress, did knowledge change, did the methodology, pedagogy advance, do we teach children about the future by means of the past? Another example, let us take a teacher who wants to make progress, who wants to be persuasive, who wants to educate and educate in the course of his work. Such a teacher, in fact, in the present system has no one to address. In 1992, this congregation, or congregation in the second assembly, abolished the last body that existed between the ministry and school. That was the Enlightenment Council. When she abolished this Educational Council, there was a vacuum space in which there was no body, there is no institution, there is no body that can make a decision except the Ministry. The school is subordinated to the Ministry. She lost every creativity, agility, every initiative and thus became a passive subject in the system. If you add a 37-year vacuum to an institutional vacuum, it turns out we're in a serious vacuum. Finally, we have a teacher, and that's the third example, which, despite the system, managed to innovate knowledge, to advance on its own, and he's now in a position to transfer his knowledge to students. Do the existing programs allow him to do that? My answer is no. So, if nothing else institutional, time vacuum and lack of tools to introduce new modes of work is sufficient reason to try one new legal solution to bring things to normal, i.e. to enable children to absorb, or receive knowledge that they will be satisfied, and to be satisfied with the state community to achieve their own functions. So, for hiring young people. About this law, there is one dimension that now moves towards public discussions. That dimension is time. In fact, there are also serious organisations and serious political parties that have nothing against the concept. Against this concept, in principle, there is no counter-conception, but they have one problem, and that is the time dimension. A year and a month ago, when we went with amendments to the law on primary and secondary schools, we were thrown out a little mockery, with an argument: "Well you, in fact, the law of Danil Ž. Markovic, are extending his century." Our answer was, "At that moment, that was the only possible thing. At that moment, we couldn't take it anymore. Today, two and a half years later, we can do more." I assure you, all of you, that the training of 8,000 teachers is complete or close to taking over the first class. I assure you all that 25,000 people participated in the creation of a concept of the law now before you in the broader discussions. That never, in any country, so many individuals passed the hearing, and if there was room, and if it was good, respected their opinion. In making the final text of the law, 250 people worked. So it's a large mechanism that's been launched, and it's been launched to a greater extent or to a greater extent since January 2002. So, he's been running a spring drive for a year or three or four months. What are the basic values of this law, or what is this word I would try, and possibly manage to cover the entire text of the law. Everything can be summed up in the word professionalization. The key to this law is the professionalization of the system, and of course it means democratisation, and decentralisation, and depolitisation of the system, because behind the words of professionalization, all of these features of the system are hidden. Professionalization is visible at different levels. The first level we're going to go from is an individual level. To what extent and in what ways, and how professionalization is visible on an individual level. First of all, we have introduced a new institute, which will be present, I am convinced, and in other segments of society, especially those who are on budgets, which is licensing. Licensing is actually a guarantee that teachers, i.e. teachers and teachers, will take courses of innovation of knowledge between two licensings, which is a five-year period. And that's all. Nothing else. No formal exams, no difficult conditions. So our desire is to organize a system so that every year they devote a certain number of days to the innovation of their own knowledge, so that children can carry on better, or modern knowledge. At the same time, professionalisation is also seen through a number of courses in which we will train other employees in schools. First of all, school principals and secretaries. And, in particular, additional professional requirements have been put before counselors, and a supervisory service that has already been reorganised since last year. At national level, professionalisation is seen in the establishment of seven centres. The seven centres will be in the final line, fully professional, educational centres, which will have tasks, each of them, to contribute to the development of the country's educational policy. The people who will be employed in them, first of all, are not a large number of them, we do not burden the budget to a large extent, there is a small number of them, will be projected to work on, according to the Ministry's orders, a professional analysis of a problem which will be material for the conclusion of the ministry itself. In that area, they actually use their work to professionalize and a house we call the Ministry. At the institution level, therefore, not national, but at the institution level, and I mean schools above all, we have introduced new categories, development planning, planning the development of the school itself, and we have created new bodies such as the pedagogical college. Bodies consisting of a number of people employed at school. So, top teachers and whose goal is to help the principal run a school from a teaching point of view. We want to free the director more for a job that's made up of raising money. So it's partly managerial. At the programming level, and that's the last level where professionalization comes into expression, it's seen through an extension of education from eight to nine years. When I talk about schooling, then I'm talking about compulsory schooling. Sam, it seems to me, don't hold my word, but apart from two countries, there are no countries that have more compulsory education than nine years. The number of years required by education is up to 13. We don't have the funds now, but it's important to keep one of our students in the bench for a year plus. That number is about 7.5 to 8,000 students. We'll have a nation that's more educated. Because it's going to be a year longer in the bench, the bill is simple. In addition, in the selection of further education, it is better to make it a year later, in which we are now bringing graduates of primary schools, we will bring them a year later. So, a year more mature will be when they make a decision on their further professional orientation. A law that is before you, apart from the extension of education, basic education, at the programming level, also allows for the introduction of a new school programme. The new school program is based on two previous acts. These are the general and specific basis of the programme. The general basis of the programme is the normized overall schooling in one country, primary and secondary, therefore, certain basic objects, therefore skeletons, electoral items, and this is complex per year. In the special programs that are being brought in for each school year, a special first-class programme has now been brought in, it is concrete to the first-class. The school program has the basis of these two acts, and it represents the work or work of each school in particular, which allows schools to make the school programme better and specific local content. This specific local content for the first class represents, for the first cycle, for the first three years, 10%, for the second cycle 20% and for the third cycle 30% of freedom. So schools are allowed to creatively and freely form a school program that will then apply to the training of their students, so children who go to a specific school. In doing so, since the fear of freedom is also a justified fear, the Ministry has also confirmed through this training of students and teachers and teachers for the first grade of school, it has prepared a number of models that will offer schools as a school programme for the first year and first generation, because we hope to educate absolutely everything over the next year so that they can participate in this programme. Finally, political decision-making is divided between the ICTY and three councils. These are three very important bodies, the institutions proposed by this law and through which we hope to share responsibility with high professionals in terms of making decisions that fall within the scope of each country's legislative policy. Councils, the mandate of the council lasts longer and does not match the government's mandate. We also wanted to symbolically say that government or politics do not have a crucial impact on school policy. For this reason, we extended the mandate to six years, with half the members of the council being elected for three years, and in this way you have consistency in considering the council itself. The whole shift, because the changes are numerous and there are many, we haven't concentrated in one year, because that would be devastating. We've made one dispersion, and for the next three years, there will be years of implementation of this program. Only after three years will all bodies be established and the whole system will be in place. It also applies to budgetary burdens, which has been allocated to a larger number of years. In this way we will try especially in the first year of application of the system, it is only the first grade, with a strong observation of change, it is monitoring, we change the system in walking. I will conclude with the following, the Ministry of Education and Sports and the Government of the Republic of Serbia is fully aware that 18 reforms have been taken over since 1945. Some have ugly names, those ugly names were created because education is a very sensitive field, a field where time is seen realistically, flows realistically, and in which every experiment is a live experiment on living people, which is even worse on children. That's why every move we make will be very thoughtful. That's why I had two years to co-operate with the previous Serbian government, a lot of discussion, right on the field of time. The impatience was present, because we all wanted to change, because the system was mature for change, and we didn't allow it until this moment. At this point, we think we've got the system ready. At such a time I ask you to be extremely professional, well-intentioned, because this is a text relating to our youth, to our children, watch this text, and I would really like to do so in a constructive discussion and with a broad agreement that this text will be the future basis of our behavior in education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-04-0.u30606	I thank Mr. Secretary. I ask if the words of the committees responsible, the Committee on Education or the Legislative Committee want to be spoken. No, they don't. ( ) Do the MPs who issued an opinion at the Committee on Education’s meetings want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Milan Radulovic applied for the word, then MP Vladimir Garčević.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-04-0.u30607	Dear People's MPs, members of the DSS Education Committee have singled out their opinions in the principle debate on this law for several reasons. Let me immediately point out that the law itself is not the basic motive as we have set out our opinions. The reason is the basic way in which this law entered into the procedure and the way this law was prepared. In the Assembly, the law was passed on May 19th, so two weeks ago. The Education Committee discussed in principle the law between the two sessions, in a break between the two sessions. Yesterday, though, he was considering amendments. I am convinced that neither the Education Committee nor the Assembly have had enough time to discuss it and to think about it. The law has entered the procedure, as you can see in the emergency session, has entered the emergency procedure. This way of treating this law in the Assembly is the result of how the Ministry prepared the law. We are convinced that this is the most important law and that this is being discussed by the Assembly in this assembly, so far at least, and this is the law on the foundations of the education and education system, and this is not the roof law that the Ministry likes to say, but is really fundamental law. This law designs a new education system in Serbia, and this is a law regarding all areas of organised social life. He is directly concerned with teachers, students and their parents, but he is particularly concerned with both sciences and cultures and businesses and health and administrative mechanisms in one country, so all spheres of social life depend on the education system and all of them, based on the education system, receive personnel to manage other systems. It is also important to know that when designing a new education system, then one nation, one state, offers a new civilization form to the citizens of one country, a new cultural integral is offered. When a new civilizational form is chosen, when it is sought for cultural integration, it is natural to conduct a really wide and broad public debate and that the area governed by such a law, therefore, the area of education which is not only the area of organisation of the school system, but is in a certain way the basis of the cylifying values, when we are in front of such a law, then it is natural to make drafts of the law, to give drafts of the law to public debate, to give the draft law, to the draft law, to go to public debate, and only after that broad public debate to come up with a bill. Mr. Minister mentioned, and I fully believe him, that the Ministry has consulted 25,000 people on this law. Not about this law, 25,000 people have been consulted, whether reforming the school system is necessary, in which direction it is necessary to reform it. Our impression was that the Ministry had an idea in advance, an idea, one vision, one project, how this system should be reformed, that it had started in the first place, among people from the pedagogical profession and among teachers, parents and students, and that it was looking for the same-minded, for people who would understand, accept and want to support it and apply it in practice. However, there were many institutions, which, for example, were not consulted. It's nature to consult the departments of the Academy of Science. It is natural for the oldest educational institution of the Serb people, such as the Serbian Orthodox Church, to have had the opportunity to say something about the educational goals envisioned by the law. So, in our opinion, we should have done more quality, broader consultations, because we really should have had, before the bill, a few foresights and drafts. In 2001, the ministry could come up with a first draft, so it could have a public debate. We didn't have a public debate on such an important document, now the key question is whether the law would have been conducted if that public debate had been conducted. He'd probably be something different, even if he wasn't significantly better, he'd be clearer, he wouldn't cause a coldness in the educational structures, he'd be acceptable. People would be willing to support it, people would be willing to understand the risk of this law and to prepare themselves, to warn possible bad consequences in the application of this law. So, about this bill, really few people know anything. The members of the Education Committee were only 15 days ago... (President: I warn you of overstepping allowed time. )......................................................................................................... clearly looked at how the Ministry of Education wanted to reform the education system. That's why we singled out our opinions. Can I speak for other members?
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-04-0.u30608	You can't, you can sign up for a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-04-0.u30609	Let me just get this straight. We eventually went over everything, and we wanted our amendments to at least include all these structures that were left out of lawmaking, to include them in law enforcement. We suggested that the Assembly set up a national educational council, which will be taken care of, which will plan... (President: I ask you to finish. You can sign up as a member of the parliamentary group. )......................................................................................................... and apply this law. The Ministry of Education ignored our request, it's an amazing thing, that the Ministry of Dialogue and Tolerance is in no condition with people who think alike, as well as the Ministry, unable to co-operate. So we found ourselves really in front of the final act, and the way the law...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-04-0.u30610	Based on Article 101, I'm giving you my first warning about the time allowed. The word is made by MP Vladimir Garčević. I remind you that the allowed time of address, for Members who have delivered an opinion at the Committee session, is five minutes. Please respect that limited time.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-04-0.u30611	The Honorable Presidency, respected fellow Members of Parliament, respected ministers with my associates, I have singled out my opinion on the Committee on Education, but before I have to point out that one of the essential laws is being implemented in the darkness of the means of information, because other opinions cannot be heard, the Assembly is not being transferred, then a realistic question is being asked - if we are all interested in this law, and I think that we are, why we are not allowed to make views, not only of the ministers and groups with it, but also of others who are different, so that we conflict our opinions. The law says we want to transform to Europe. I think that for positive movements no party is against, that the transformation is carried out and the education system is approaching. But a fundamental question arises -- as long as any country should go to Europe and what it is that it needs to preserve from a national mark within the legal rules. I must say that Europe does not dictate such a law, as we do, but is dictated by people who are located and who want to suppress everything that has been traditional, good in our education system, and by offering some solutions that have not been checked and some solutions that, by our assessment, will give negative results. It's said to go to nine-year-old schooling. I would agree that in Europe, a number of countries have this, but not all, because I have consulted, which means - whether we have conducted an examination, whether this nine-year education and education does not remind us of what Shuvar introduced during Yugoslavia, when it has proved that the Shuvar school does not produce the results that are later needed to continue schooling, for vocational training and everything that follows. Such an experiment, now between eight and ten years old, is not Shuvar, it's not even an eight-year-old school, so it is now, we'll probably call it after Minister Gasha's school. Then the question arises, are we allowed to do serious jobs in education without experimenting? I don't think so. Next, she's deluded into education, she says - all educational workers should work with a license. The basic insight, the right to work, is lost, because if said in that attitude - the license - has no right to work. The issue arises with a fundamental constitutional commitment, whether or not she graduates from college and has the right to work in education. This will be resolved by the lawyers at the level of the Constitutional Court. Furthermore, when the state authorities give the license, and how the state -- if the Serbian government appoints all the ministries, not professional associations that could monitor and license in another case, then the question arises -- is it not going to turn into some political organisations that are going to make solutions, I like you, I don't like you, are you in a political definition. (President: 5 minutes. ) Furthermore, when it comes to parliament and non-parliament, we have in our tradition a school community of students. We have a departmental community. The minister is running away from it -- he doesn't need anything from tradition, although we offer solutions that were acceptable. When it comes to workers and trade unions, the Serbian government is running from the union. You literally need to put the unions aside, and Vlado does what you want. I don't think there's one country in the world, and there's no one in the European countries. I took the test to get it from the Slovenian law to copy it. Here, there's something to see, you can't accept that either. Then the question arises why is it not accepted... (President: I warn you of overstepping allowed time. )......................................................................................................... That part of the union.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-04-0.u30612	Are any of the other MPs who have issued an opinion at the Committee's meeting reporting themselves? The word has a folk emissary, Bojana Alexic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-04-0.u30613	I will try to continue where my colleague Radulovic left off, and at the same time I want to express, don't mind me, your astonishment, which is why Professor Radulovic, who must have been one of the most correct MPs in this assembly, got a warning today and the way he got his notice, because here is one of the most important topics that is really important.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-04-0.u30614	Please stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-04-0.u30615	This is a topic, Mrs. Micic. The theme is the Law on Education and the theme is what my colleague used to say and the way he got his warning. As for our opinion at the Committee on Education session, I must say that MPs of the Democratic Party of Serbia have found themselves in a major dilemma. We, of course, have our concept of education and our concept of reform, which we have prepared in the educational committee of our party and will talk about it in front of my colleague Nenad Lemajic, who is our shadow minister. Our concept of education has a lot of similarities with the law proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. We have common certainty that we are both too old to change the existing system of education, which we believe is a system of education, which at this point we have, extremely bad, outdated, too large, our children are overloaded by materials that are not adapted to their age. There's still a lot of ideological coloring in those textbooks and not counting any further. In general, the situation in education, we all know, has been extremely difficult in previous years and educational workers have really turned on the sidelines of society, their wages have been terrible and there has been a negative selection in this teaching staff. Because of these small wages, we are fully aware of it. What we differ from the Government of the Republic of Serbia and we held at the meeting of the Committee on Education, that is precisely when it comes to the three councils proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia to form. The first and most important of them is the educational advice proposed by the government. We in the Democratic Party of Serbia think it is necessary to have such advice, that it must play a key role in the reform, in the education system and that it should therefore be called the National Educational Council, that it cannot be appointed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, but must be chosen by the National Assembly. One such advice really takes care of the highest national interest, of our children, of our future, of the future of entire generations and of our entire country. I don't think there's a man in this congregation, at all in society and in this country who's not interested in what he's going to teach our children in schools, how he's going to learn, how he's going to learn. I think that's why the National Assembly has to choose such advice. Not from the ranks of politicians and not from the ranks of politicians, but exclusively from the ranks of experts on the proposal of the Education Committee, which would commit to having a conversation with experts and people of the highest reputation and with consultations with the Serbian Academy of Science, with the Serbian Orthodox Church and at all the most national institutions must take part in all of this. In that sense, we have submitted a number of amendments, which we will explain later, and at the same time our basic observation is whether it is possible to start reforming this school year. We think that it is not possible and we think, if only now the bodies that will be the bearers of the reform are formed, they should be given at least one more year of time to design a reform, to design plans and programmes, and that the reform starts the school years 2004/2005, and that in this school year in a number of schools, pilot schools, review programs are made, to see how this works, to choose twenty schools where the reform will start and then to prepare what everyone looks forward to.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-04-0.u30616	People's MP Bora Stanimirovic, who also issued an opinion at the meeting of the Education Committee, spokeswoman Bora Stanimirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-04-0.u30617	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, Mr. Minister, I have given my opinion for a number of reasons, but it is a particularly important issue of transparency. You use every opportunity to always say how transparent you perform, how the public in the work is guaranteed. I think this bill, not too fast, but rather secretly done, without public participation. When I tell the public, I mean institutions that are very relevant to give an opinion on one system law, which depends on the future of our generations, on which the country depends. That's why I'm answering, just to point out that we've, for example, held an educational council without any material. However, the Ministry informed us of some views, but that was insufficient. During talks with the minister of education, at his request, at the ministry, as a representative of the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary club, I had the opportunity to talk and only at that meeting to get one working material, which was, in some ways, the basis of this bill, but it was too late. I later learned that no union had been notified of this. No elementary school, no high school, no university, no Academy of Science, we heard earlier. I think it's hard to make one such reform, one such change, to pass one such system law without a wider public participation, and especially institutions that are very interested. These are my fundamental remarks and I'm saying this not to criticise the changes, but precisely because, if in some way they hired all the forces I was talking about, they would achieve this consensus and have much more success in this reform, because the law itself is not a guarantee, even if it was good, if we didn't inform the public, unless we animated all the forces that mattered and that will ultimately implement it. We, as MPs, may adopt it in this House, but the question is how will this law be implemented later. Secondly, it is said that there was a lot of centralism in the past compared to the ministry and schools, decisions were made at the ministry, and schools had to implement them all. Right now, this law is a classic example of centralism, and I think there's a little more centralism in this bill than in the period so-called. State ethics from the 1950s, and I'm going to illustrate that later. It was controversial, especially when it comes to a license. The license is well imagined. The minister mentioned earlier that an educational council was abolished in 1992, and that's true. It was a mistake. Later, the Educational and Pedagogical Institute was also abolished, and no practical replacement was found for the professional service, which is very important. But here it is now going into another extreme. Three councils are formed that have no maltenes of any competence, no jurisdiction, except that they are appointed by the Government and can propose to the Ministry some changes and some attitudes, which the Ministry may but also does not have to accept. The Educational Council must be a decision-making body that will be able to apply to all education, without the participation of the ministry. So this is exactly what centralised is all about. Second, when it comes to such counsel, we have even formed one counsel, that third counsel. One advice is where professional issues are discussed, other issues of principle, and the third advice is to bring attitudes into line in education, meaning between these councils.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-04-0.u30618	I'm warning you of an overrun of the time allowed. Thank you. Did MP Vladimir Andric, who also issued an opinion on the application for a word? No, I don't. ) We are moving on to the debate of the president or representative of the parliamentary groups. The first was registered by MP Branislav Ivkovic, president of the SNS parliamentary group, after they almost changed their name. [[Sagar.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-04-0.u30619	Ladies and gentlemen, the president of the assembly, the Socialist People's Party parliamentary group, said exactly because last Tuesday, at the request of the MPs of the Democratic Party of Serbia, the Constitutional Court discussed the position of MPs, we can now define ourselves as we are, which is the SNS. Dear Mr. Knezevic, I welcome you as a minister in the government of Serbia who certainly has a lot of work to do, but unfortunately I do not share an opinion with my predecessor that this is the most important law under consideration in the assembly. It must be a well-intentioned statement, because it refers to the formation of one man, but in our opinion, the most important law was the Labour Act, because it defines the system and the economic system of work. I think that you, as minister, in the area of a social upgrade and public services that are in fact supporting the budget of the Republic of Serbia, must have problems and that much more time needs to be devoted in the Serbian government how to strengthen that economic part, economic activities, so that you have at all resources in the budget, as well as the Ministry of Science, as well as all other social activities. As far as the proposed law is concerned, there is a question about the reason why the law is proposed. It's safe to go repairing what's wrong. The question is, what was the education system so far? You can best appreciate the education system's work results. And you and I as university professors know very well what quality students we have, but at least as far as the Faculty of Civil Engineering are concerned, we also have the fact that our students, absolutely anywhere in the world, are very successful in accepting all the challenges and finishing the projects they're doing. In fact, we stand at the point that we have a good education system. The big question is whether to change it so radically, as you suggested in this law. This educational system has been able to surprise the winners in the mathematical and physical Olympics, i.e. The Olympics of physics and mathematics, information, even at the time of NATO agriculture when our students were others in the world. This means that it was an extremely high-quality system, close to the Russian system that gave extremely talented and educated students, giving peace to families -- that children were occupied by their school obligations, not subject to monsters such as drugs, sects, etc. because they have enough day and day engagement to develop as humans and to prepare for new challenges. This part of the work also corresponds to the SNS programme that advocates the real and equal chances of every man, especially a young man in overall development, regardless of the social and educational background of the family from which he originates. The very serious question is whether or not to change anything in... Are you satisfied? There was no comment from the O.R. You're very charming, sir. You're a great hero. In any case, the big question is whether to make this kind of radical change. Our point is we don't need to. It's already been experimented and tried in this country with ten years of primary education, and that's a big question -- whether this kind of radical change should be done at all, as you suggest. There are certain things that need to be improved. Every system that exists is good when it can experience certain improvements, but to this extent that you propose it is certainly not justified and we will not be able to vote in favour of this bill. However, I must point out, if the majority of parliament, which the Government of the Republic of Serbia has here, with 128 MPs, this vote raises a very serious question of licensing. There are permits in the world in the area of construction engineers. For example. The Royal Association of Construction Engineers has its licenses, but these are NGOs, professional organisations that give individual licensing their reputation and reputation and give them the verification of the expertise and professional organisation, assess the expertise once in his career and retain the right to full control and monitor his work, and respect for the moral code of association to which he belongs. The fact that you, from one such opportunity for NGOs to possibly license professional organisations past the government, license the work of university professors, high school teachers, primary school teachers, teachers, you go to another extreme that may also impose a political connotation. You are going to the extreme that the government is forming a advice that will deal with licensing every five years, as I recall, so it is inevitably asking the question, you know that the Lustration Act has been adopted, and you can succumb to that law because you are the legislator of the law, that the Government will inevitably, forming its expert advice, put into professional advice at that moment the dominant majority in Parliament from political parties and that it will certainly have a political impact on those people who are licensed, and that people and how to take care who sits in those councils to license someone, and which is the worst every five years. What I didn't feel comfortable hearing yesterday from an educational teacher in Nis is that seminars that are paid 100 euros are held, even if parts of the ministry do so. It's a good thing it's not, I'm glad, I'll take it right now, but some seminars are going. [[Minister denying the bench]] It's not for licensing, but it's for some training in the field of the education process. Our position is and in this sense we have submitted amendments that as regards the licensing of workers in the educational process, whether it is a primary school or a university, you are going to rely on a professional organisation, that a professional organisation, as an NGO, gets the right to license, and that a professional organisation as an NGO is actually licensed once by someone who has already completed a school and has the right to control the work and respect of moral and other codes of who completed the school. Toby was an optimal solution that absolutely any possibility of endangering human rights could take away from you both as a promoter and from the government of the Republic of Serbia, because it automatically sets up the data -- one that does not get a license has no right to work. You're removing his right to work. It's a fundamental human right, so that's the problem that's being put in place. So, by supporting everything Mr. Vladimir Garcevic has said that he has been authorised by the SNS parliamentary group for this point in the further work we are warning of the area of licensing, we suggest that this licensing is based on the domain of jurisdiction of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of origin and we suggest that the possibility of accepting the fact that the educational process so far is essentially maintained. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-04-0.u30620	National MP Borislav Pelevic, authorised representative of the Serb Unity Party's parliamentary group, came forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-04-0.u30621	The Honorable Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr Minister, said in the opening statement that this whole law can be summed up into one single word and that word is professionalisation, and then explained that under that it implies both democratisation and depolitisation of the school system, if I understood you well. However, I will have to deny you immediately, at the beginning, because what it means to depolitise if the Government of the Republic of Serbia elects and educates the educational council on pre-school, primary and secondary and artistic education and education. This practically means further politicisation and further centralization, because it is obvious that everything wants to be in its hands and especially the system of education and education. We think that it would be much more appropriate if the Enlightenment Council were to choose the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on a proposal from the Education Committee, because otherwise the question could be asked - what the Education Committee is serving in the Serbian Assembly and what this Assembly is serving. So, I can't agree with the minister that it's depoliticization. What does democratisation mean? Democracy is a social order, not a pedagogical method. Those strong words should be avoided when it comes to enlightenment. I don't see in this whole law that there's anything that looks like a democratisation of the education and education system. On the contrary, this is increasingly like centralised education and education systems. So, at first, I absolutely disagree with the Honorable Minister of Education. It is also known that the programme of redefineing the education system in 19 countries in Central, Eastern Europe and the Soviet Union works by the Open Society Institute, whose waltz is George Soros, the same gentleman who is received at the highest level in our country, insisting on Kosovo's independence. Open up in that program says, and the program is called Step by Step, Programfor children and father. So it's obviously about the Americanisation of education programmes throughout Eastern, Central Europe and the Soviet Union. The Soviet Union has paid for such a system by leaving its, very respected world education and questioning system. The Soviet Union is now paying a fat price for the Americanization of its system. I have no objection that every country in its own way regulates its education and education system. What's good in the American system is a narrow specialization in certain cases. What's good in our system is that our system is educated, so our graduates, our children, represent perhaps the most educated children after the end of so-called. small high school or high school, in the world. Of course, what we lack is that narrow specialization that would lead to the education of young experts who would be successful in their own ways. I think it should be the subject of reform, not the subject of reform to be just not eight years of primary education, but nine years plus three years. It's just a form. It is not education reform just reforming the form, but reforming education is reforming the essence of education, i.e. the system of education and education. It's a real reform, then. We've come here to a situation where it won't be for eight years, but it'll be nine years, taking away our children a year of carefree childhood. I can say that because I have five kids, so I know what it looks like. I don't think it's a good way to reform school. In addition, what needs to be said in particular is that three tips are being educated here. In my opinion, the third council for harmonising attitudes in education is absolutely unnecessary. All of this can be understood in these two councils, in the educational council and in the expert education council. What is also bad is that in the objectives of education and education under point 5, the "development of awareness of statehood and cultivation of tradition and culture" is stated. I don't know why we're ashamed to say - developing Serbian tradition and culture and traditions and culture of national minorities living in Serbia. Why do we avoid the word Serbian in every law, as if it should be ashamed? Why only one sentence mentions "the educational - educational work is achieved in Serbian," but in our opinion it should stand - with Cyrillic. This was an opportunity to preserve Cyrillic as one of the pillars of our spirituality, as one of the pillars of every nation. There's no Cyrillic c here. I agree that both letters are treated equally, both Cyrillic and Latin, but as we started, the Cyrillic is moving faster and faster out. If we throw it out of our basic and secondary education programmes, then we will completely shut it down, and thus cut the branch on which we stand, one of the pillars of our nation, the Serbian nations, which we should not be ashamed of, but rather, which we should be proud of. I don't want the new education program to make heroes and idols of our children Harry Potter, and we already have a fifth-grade textbook, quoting an anecdote about Harry Potter, this great Serbian hero. I'm afraid that the cycle of heroic folk songs about Kosovo's color and everything that has adorned our history and our tradition, and that their places will be occupied by such Harry Pottery, who are currently modern in the world and who are the subject of our readers, will be taught by our children. I don't think that's good, and if we reform school like that, then we won't get far. I repeat, we will cut the branch on which we sit, which is our nation and pillars of that nation. Article 4 states: "basic education is mandatory for free". Why doesn't it say it's mandatory for free and secondary education? Does this mean that only children of wealthy parents will be able to study high school? Is that why it's reintroduced into the little door of a little prom that's been thrown out in the '60s, like totally unnecessary? This degrades the work of both teaching staff and parents and students themselves, if that small graduation is introduced again, after nine years of primary school learning. Why are there real discrimination against parents, discrimination against our children? Why aren't there, and there will be, and there should be private schools, but those schools whose founder is the Republic, the province, the local self-government community? Why must secondary education be paid in these schools? That's not good, because a large number of parents can't afford to study at higher schools and colleges. If we put them in a situation where they have to pay their children and secondary education, then that means real discrimination on a financial basis. No one can convince me that's not the case. So we advocate free elementary and secondary education, only in those institutions, an institution whose founder is the Republic, the province or local self-government. What needs to be objected to by this law is a lot, but I would like to say in Article 39: "The Ministry has the right to prohibit school from working because of the suspension of work, or because of the strike." This abolishes the constitutional right of educational workers to strike, of course, provided by law. So, we, as the Soviet Union, have tabled an amendment, I hope that it will be accepted by the government, where we have asked that work cannot be banned, but rather that previous measures be put in place, and only then ban the work of that institution that started the strike, or the suspension of work. It is a direct violation of the constitutional right of Serbian citizens. Article 87 provides that primary education is to last nine years and a medium three years. That's what I was talking about. I don't think anything's gonna happen to that. It's not reform, it's not reform, it's reform, it's reform in form, it's reform in reforming the core of the programme, not just the reform of the form. (President: I warn you of an overrun of the allowed time. Do you want to use the next 10 minutes? Yes, I want to use it. Article 41 provides that "the primary school can establish a foreign face as well". It's a great danger hiding behind this member. I don't doubt the good intentions of those who wrote this, but it will give an opportunity, for example, to an Albanian from Presevo, Bujanovac, Medvedje to establish a school and teach in it by means of a programme from Albania. Remember the examples of Kosovo and Metohija, remember the examples of Pristina, where students and students learned from the textbooks from Italy. It's a great danger. I don't think that should stand. Also, Article 42 says that "another organisation can establish institutions of preschool education". Please, George Sorosh's preschool education program is on its way. That's why it's called Step by Step. That is why we need to be very careful, because we will come into a situation where many NGOs or, worse or worst of all, religious sects, as registered organizations, can establish pre-school institutions and raise our children in them. That's not good, and that member needs to be deleted. A small graduation is being reintroduced, which has been abolished, and which is not good, disqualifying the work of all those who worked for the nine years, and teachers and students. Article 102 provides that the student may have all the units, from the gray objects at the end of the year, and that he may pass the correctional exam from all cases. Let's think logically. If that student couldn't get a crossover from so many cases for a whole year, he'd be able to fix all these cases in June or August, without a professor, without teaching, without anything. So, a simple nonsens that needs to be thrown out. You need to restore the limit. Three exams or four exams can be passed on the exam, and if there is more than one, then repeats the year. It's impossible for a month, two to learn what he hasn't learned throughout the year, under the patronage of his teachers. It's something that's not good, and something that's going through practice and how badly it's going to affect our system of education and education. In the end, I really want our education and education system to be reformed so that it continues to be comprehensive, still generally educated, and still to the pride of all of us, but also to include and narrow the specialization of our children. There should be a compromise, between several systems of education, and there should be the right to reform education, i.e. education and education systems, and not just to move the number of years, licensing of professors, etc. For all these reasons, and because of the real danger ahead of us, our children and us, since the adoption of this law, the Serbian Unity Party will not vote in favour of this bill, as it drags us into something called the George Soros Open Society Institute programme. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-04-0.u30622	The word is a folk letter from Natasa Milojevic, a group of Social Democratic Party MPs, then a folk MP from Gordana Pop-Lazic, and a folk MP from Nenad Lemaic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-04-0.u30623	Thank you. The Honored Presidency, dear colleagues, MPs, the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted 12 amendments to the basic text, i.e. the proposal for a law on education and education for several reasons. Or three groups of reasons. In fact, according to what is read from the text of the law, which is to be predicted seriously, and in our opinion the fundamental reform of education, i.e. education and education, we have a problem with the basic concept of treatment of employees in this sector. We propose that this concept in several amendments, and in addition to the fact that employees in education and education have their right to trade union organisation, union action, and hence the application of those provisions of previous laws, in particular the Labour Act, which provides for the introduction of a collective or existence and signing of a collective contract that regulates the working world and the sphere of profit and other material income of employees in this area. Let me explain. We are convinced by the assessment of the law and the bill that the Ministry's intention, namely the Government of the Republic of Serbia, is to introduce in this area, i.e. to make radical reforms in this area. Those who will break up with, in my opinion, one and how the advanced form of learning or learning methodology that implies the constant repetition of what the student heard from the teacher, or read in the textbook, implies another methodology that favors school work, i.e. educational and educational institutions, a thorough paper that requires maximum engagement, both teachers and students. This thorough work should produce overcoming the already present favoriteisation of focus in everything, and should in our opinion favour the talents and those that show exceptional results in certain teaching areas and school districts. We're reading all of this from this bill. What we also read is that everyone in education and training of all employees and all those employed in this area is asked for a high degree of responsibility for the work they do. The various bodies and institutions that are being introduced, such as the institution of the licence, such as the existence of an educational inspector, such as the introduction of three advices that have already been discussed, we believe that responsibility is required for all participants in the field of education and education. The third segment that we recognise as positive is that the law also provides for respect for student opinion or student attitude through the introduction of the status of representatives of the student or student parliament in the participation of their, or presence in, the work of the managing authority, such as the school board, i.e. the board of directors, which in this case is called the school's. What's also good is that it predicts or favours continuous control of the expertise of teaching and educational staff. This constant control every five years of renewal of the licence, etc. is something that is already present in other areas, if I am not mistaken in the field of health and health care, and has been accepted by people who are employed in the area and those who have also adopted such regulations. All this says is that the law, not only because it is largely by the number of members, but also by the fact and by the content it deals with, is that it is one serious bill. In our view, the opinion of the Social Democratic Party and the MP groups will, until the end, be as serious as treatment of work and employees and their right to negotiate the level of earnings, i.e. wages and other material compensations, which are primarily arranged for members of the Labour Act, and which are in a completely different way arranged for members, i.e. the whole Law on the work of state bodies. When we discuss amendments, I will talk in detail about this, that we are now not burdening the principle debate with this kind of detail, but I think there are at least three groups of reasons why this approach should be reconsidered. The first group concerns, not only the constitutional right to union organisation, but also the fact that union organisation, and even a member of the Labour Act, if I am not mistaken, is a member of the 130s, it is predicted that trade unions are established to protect the rights and promote the professional and economic interests of its members. It's about one and the other, when it comes to the Law on Education and Education. Secondly, if our proposals relating to the signing of a collective agreement, i.e. the signing of a collective contract, and Minister Knezevic said they are already in the process of negotiating with educational employees. It's simple, about signing collective agreements. If our objections to this matter are respected, we think one species will be achieved, I cannot say a general consensus, because it is very dangerous, but a consensus bar in this area. To remind almost a quarter of Serbia's total staff are employed in the field of education and education. We cannot forget a quarter of the working and working-active population without respecting their need for real, their real and constitutional rights provided for, and their fundamentally intimate, economic reason for negotiating their profits and other material benefits with the employer. The fact that it is an employer of states, I think it only improves the general attitude, not only of the Serbian Government, but of all those who participate in the reform of the system, which is that reforms must be root, essential, but that the transition period must be adorn something we have called, and we still call social dialogue, i.e. dialogue between key, social groups that are in this case and trade unions, or employees in this area. If we will, and I'm sure we will, to avoid any spread or existence of conflict and the delay of the start of the school year 2003, 2004, in regular times, or in time, if we want to avoid the possibility, except that there will be objections from employees to such root changes and such fundamentally demonstrated innovations that will have to be respected, if we want to avoid a new package of remarks concerning basic, trade union law, let's think again about the existence of collective agreements and the change of principles, so that the principle is not the Law of Labour in state bodies, but that we draw the principle from the basic text of the Labour Act. Just two more words about the introduction of a license and the fact, I'll talk about that again when we talk about these members of the law, about the fact that a license shouldn't be a cause for fear. Since the three-seat article clearly explains what if and what if the law is applied within eight days of its adoption, how it will be reflected and how it will manifest itself to an already large number of educational and educational staff. That's more than a positive thing. The fact that the extension and the conditions for extension and renewal of the licence should be clarified and the licensing should also be clarified, in order for any doubt, at least the smallest, to be removed from that verb to issue or issue a licence, so as not to assume that another mechanism of state control will be introduced into the licensing process. In that case, I ask that the Government, as a motionary, respond and remove any possible suspicion from this solution or licence system. If I have to say this and I have this obligation to amend the Social Democratic Party, the SDP parliamentary groups will not be accepted we will not be able to support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-04-0.u30624	The word has a folk MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group, and then MP Nenad Lemajic, then MP Bora Stanimirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-04-0.u30625	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Parliament, long-declared reform to the foundations of the education and education system has not found its formation in this law. What's changed, and as for the new concepts of education three plus three plus three, secondary education, before university education, is not what was lacking in our education and does not have a drastic impact on the state of education being better and that our generations leaving school are more educated and able to get involved in the work. The law itself provides for some newspapers, on which we could conclude that immediately after the adoption of this law, which I doubt will be adopted, at least as adopted by the Law on Lustration, with false cards here, and we hear that some parliamentary groups will not vote for this law, so it is difficult to predict the possibility that 126 MPs will be in favour, and that the amendment of the law on ministries should be implemented and that the Ministry of Education and Sports should only retain that name - the Ministry of Sport, because it will absolutely have nothing more to do with education. The parallel ministries are being created through these committees and centres, not now entering into the principle debate of what they are doing, what the character of their work is, how they are chosen, whether it is good or not, who can influence them, we will discuss it in particular when we consider the amendments, but it costs us very much. As much as I could add up from the reasoning that the proposer gave us just for this last quarter of this year, it takes about 350 million dinars and, of course, it's not the end, but it's going quarterlyly, or more years it's going to have to be funded, and it's the only thing that I don't understand is that those who work in these centres and commissions are not foreseen in the budget, I don't know who's going to finance it. Yesterday, I was lucky to buy a "witness" weekly whose distribution was banned and to read a column by Mr. Vladan Dinic, the editor-in-chief of this weekly, in which he was about to give his review of this law on education and this very funny way, he said it would be our future school to look like. Little Perica comes to school, sits in a bench, the teacher calls him out and says, "Let's check out what you know, and he says, "Please, let's get up and see what you've learned, how much knowledge you've adopted," and he says, "I won't, how you won't, I'm a child protected by law, and I can do what I want at school, and of course, the teacher can't do anything, by accident, that kid, the kid of some MP, he folds a tabak, he knows the law, writes a complaint, and the teacher's application continues to chan the teacher based on the withdrawal of the license." This is how Vladan Dinic described it in a funny way, and without beating, especially those who were not invited, and I suppose that is also one of the reasons why the paper stopped distributing yesterday. However, there are still more people who do not see schools as a game and do not experience it in such a funny way, but in a very serious way and experience it as a serious institution. It is by its nature, conditionally said, traditional in the sense that it should cultivate verified values, and even when these values are instantaneously in the rash, as is the case with us now, and somewhere like some gallery follows all the trends and whims from the white world. We are not told by the minister in the exposé that these are possibly education systems from our closer or further environment, whether there are those who have prepared this bill, they usually say -- by reputation of France, by reputation of Finland, by our closer environment or America, we have not heard this at this time, but if by any chance you had the reputation of the American system of education, then I would like to remind you that there are 30 million completely illiterate in this America and that there are 50% of those who do not go out to the elections just because they are not able to understand the instruction that stands on the ballot. That's where America's big problem is with 50 percent of voters coming to the polls. That's a fact. It can't be disproved. If our education is bad, if it does not meet the criteria of some, if it does not allow quick, those who finish high school to participate in the process of work, then why does that West import our brains, why are our experts so gladly accepted everywhere in the world, why our children when they go anywhere in Europe or America, skip two three steps and immediately engage in a higher degree of education. Do you know that in America, people with an academic title have no basic concepts of basic geographical concepts and what are we talking about then? There was almost some study, not so soon, five, six years ago, I remember, it showed that third-country countries have a better education system and that they are more educated children than children in America. Therefore, we should strictly take care of who's forcing us to reform education like this, if we know it's UNICEF, if we know it's the World Bank, if we know it's Soros, what do they really want from us? I just don't believe in their good intentions, that they want to give money, and we'll depend on their money, it's seen in many ways, so that we have a better education system. They won't do it. They want us to have the most uneducated children, the greater anarchy. He wants to manipulate not only the children, he wants manipulation and teaching staff, and I'm going to give you concrete examples later, through those workshops that we had, which were the predecessor to this reform that followed. We are in favour of reform, but in which direction, in the direction of discharging the material. You can always create such a program to remove excess parts, to modernise the program. The kids are overloaded, that's a fact. I also agree with the fact that some items can also be academic, some can be descriptively evaluated, it stands, but I cannot agree with that, and the Serbian Radical Party will, as a party that advocates traditional values, oppose such programs that you will not have any influence at all. It may be a good thing you won't, but you'll be succeeded by another minister. The ministry will not have the opportunity to influence, in which it will be expelled, for example, a full Kosovo cycle or Jovan Ducic, or be returned to Krleža, or in the geography textbook a year before the National Community Charter was adopted here, it will say that children live in the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, which was founded on 4 March 2001. Do you know what kind of misinformation that is? That way children lose their identity first, when they lose that national identity, they lose their identity. It's a basic problem and our people who go abroad, there as foreigners have lost their national identity, lost their slowly and personal identity and have a variety of problems that I wouldn't be in this place right now.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-04-0.u30626	Do you want to use the next 10 minutes?
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-04-0.u30627	Of course. The new educational models UNICEF advocates, some of the literature I read, are basically TV top-shows. Anyone can give their opinion on everything in a democratic way. So there is no critical effort to leave your own view in favour of a comprehensive view. An example of this is, from a scientific journal, I found it, studying the importance of the Holy Council. Among other things, in one such workshop, how I am convinced that programs will be brought through your centres and commissions. An interview with the Holy Sava should be performed and children do it this way: they ask - how do you feel today. St. Sava answers - I feel dead. When are you coming back to heaven? - On the first JAT plane. Who made you that hedgehog? - Elijah Thunderbolt. Where's your eagle? - Stayed in the washing machine. Are we going to have programs like this? Are we going to educate our children in this way? In Serbia-Montenegro, with financial support from Soros, many seminars, active classes and a network of 20 experimental schools have been held, which should be a role model for future education reforms. That's what I read to you, it's from a lecture in one of those experimental schools. There are other interesting examples for such a thing, and I believe it's just too much of what's about to happen to us, which isn't necessarily changing. If there's anything to be done, we're in favour of perfecting educational workers, whether this is the way you license. I think you've unnecessarily raised it to that level. Every five years you check on teachers, you don't actually check them out, you just make them go to those new schools, to those new counseling sessions. It's a bit of joy for them, and their wages are small anyway. There's nothing there for nothing, it's someone paying for it. On these counsellings, they teach them to do as this teacher did on the subject of the importance of the Holy Sava. Your deputy minister said that in our literature, in the subject of Serbian language and literature, the study of film, comics, video, computer animation should be included. If all this is the place in literature, and it is not the place of the Kosovo cycle or Jovana Ducic, or in the history of the sixth grade, that one single sentence says that the first Serbian uprising raised Karadjordje in 1804, then we do not need any reform, or we need choices to change this power and to get a serious minister who will work in the interests of this country and to be interested in ensuring respect for traditional values, and not this kind of madness as we now have. Believe me, we parents who have children in elementary and high school are obliged to follow what they learn and correct or supplement what they learn. I can't let my child learn history or literature that way. I have to explain to him that it's not like that, it's like this and it happened differently than it says there. Please, in the history of eighth grade, two years after the revolution the grandeur of the October Revolution. It's outrageous for the education system. In the 1970s, Professor Dragan Nedeljković, at the Department of World Literature, interpreted Gogol's "Dead Souls". Do you know what he said on that occasion? I'm sure he was right. "The American cannot understand or feel Russian literature. He has no dimension to cover the situation and depths of the characters Gogol, Dostoyevsky, even Tolstoy. For him, "crime and punishment" is just one crime novel, and "War and Peace" only understands the level of stories, so they make "War and Peace" in the comic book. This is what Soros, what UNICEF wants us through this new system of education, and our obedient government and obedient minister, a member of the Council of the Belgrade Centre for Human Rights, should, of course, implement it. On the subject of who could be the founder of our school, there is indeed a great danger, because if we go from there, you probably read in the press yesterday that the registered association of citizens is named, I think that Satanit was in the White Stream, the locals are unhappy that the sect is there, neatly registered, although the association for the defence of Vojislav Seselj could not be registered with the MUP, and such an association of citizens can establish a preschool institution. Whom we trust today, to make sure that if the minister tells us now, we have no intention of being or not letting anything like that happen. We absolutely don't trust it, because many government members too, we have had the opportunity to read and hear about it when they accused each other, supporters or members of such sects. What needs to be done, instead of throwing this kind of money at these centers and these commissions, which, by the way, can be said to do something that the minister tells them to do, can and may not do, so if they don't, then the Ministry does it again, and the money remains there, it was better if we improved the position of the educators, because they would have really more talent and they would have regained the self-respect they had long lost and certainly made a greater effort to make it easier for our children to master the material. So, the reduction of the programme that, perfecting educational workers yes, but to whom to trust it is a major issue of responsibility and taking care of the material status of workers. You know what, a snake bites and a lizard gets scared. We've experienced the Shuvar and the Shuvar, and now we're afraid of this Gasha school, and of course we're paying special attention so we don't make the same mistake again. As far as we are concerned from the Serbian Radical Party, we will not vote for any law that suggests such an irresponsible government, and especially such an irresponsible minister, who, Professor of the Faculty of Law Dr Vojislav Seselj, has cast out without any basis for any law, kicked out of college, and now we need to trust him that he will not lute all teachers in primary and secondary schools in this way. I can't trust him anymore, not even when he says good day to me, except when I see something working with his eyes, as I saw this morning that he went to play tennis and came here relaxed, he can handle everything that we had to do at night, since our agenda was delivered on Thursday, and the meeting ended on Friday, and we could only work on this law on Saturday, to submit amendments. They were almost experts from Sweden at one of our primary schools in Belgrade. I can't quite remember the name of that school, it's not even an important name, which was surprised how communicative our children are, how much basic knowledge they possess, and they complained that they couldn't make their children talk. If we want such alienation, then we can vote for this law, not to be bit by the conscience, but as far as we are concerned by the Serbian Radical Party MPs, we will not vote for this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-04-0.u30628	The word has been issued by MP Zoran Cirkovic, the New Serbia parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-04-0.u30629	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as the legislator of this law, has decided to submit this legislative text to the Assembly for adoption by emergency procedure. The president of the Assembly eliminated the decision of urgency, thus preventing MPs from intervened in time with amendments to improve this legal text. It says that sometimes, in order to prevent parliamentary obstruction, we ourselves enter destruction. The occasional suspicion of everyone's good intentions is the kind of destruction. This law deals with education, education and teaching. Why the third segment of total pedagogical work is easily omitted remains unknown. The teaching can't be replaced by coin - educational-experienced work, it's something more specific. So, in the basic provisions of this law, the concept of teaching is unwarranted and it is a serious lack of this law, which predicates to comprehensiveness. The right solution would be that in all the members of this law, which contain the syntagma "educated and training in primary and secondary schools" the term "school" in the right place. The title of the second chapter is missing "school." So it's already a conceptual defect of this bill. This chapter reads: "Development, security and improvement of quality of education and education". The right thing to do would be to replace the first two words and add "school" at the end. By the way, I'm very skeptical about setting up a lot of tips, centres and expert teams. It seems to me that it seems to me that it is in order to capture an existing or newly created so-called. Reform Educational Bureaucracies. At the end of that list, we have ministries and detached departments of the ministry, and now called "school administration". The third section lacks the teaching clause. In primary and secondary schools, as institutions, education, education and teaching are conducted. The course is an organized form of educational work. The form of its realization is teaching time. It's interesting that it doesn't say anything in the law, and it should. The autonomy of the facility is very rigid and, if we're right, she's not without the autonomy of the teachers. In the fourth chapter, the legislator discusses management and management bodies. It is good that in the spirit of decentralisation, the local self - administration assembly is given the right to appoint and relieve school boards, or boards of directors, but what we will do when these congregations do not function. At that time, the temporary municipal authority assumes the functions of the congregation and is volunteering to cut the school boards. These abuses can't really be avoided. Analyze the work of temporary councils in Serbia, and you will see for yourself the justification of this publicly spoken cold. I particularly point out that it is harmful if such a management body remains until the end of the prescribed term, as provided for by this law in the transitional provisions. When it comes to the selection of directors, the practice so far has been that they are mostly members of one party. Why don't you just legalize it? It would be fair, the truth is unfair, but who asks you for justice, if you have power and authority. In this chapter, the first remark would be the order of education and education programmes. According to the level of institutions we have a natural order - education, then education and again why not teaching. When a legislator introduces new categories, it requires that they be defined. So what are the outcomes of education, what are the recommended types of modular teaching. By the way, I recognize that in the school program category, we're thinking about an earlier curriculum and a program. As the promoter of the word "school" ran away as a loss, he replaced it with "school" and that's something broader, something the written content implies. The sixth chapter is "Achieving Education and Education". The remark is the same as before in order and lack of the word "continuation". Otherwise, the legislator of this law has quite a reform waved in this head. What was a school standard and an educational tradition would be said, is now inaugurated by educational cycles. The remark of earlier elite secondary schools was that the three-year duration was scarce for the quality assumed in them. It's possible they're wrong. Finally, if we were right, then this system experiment would be a dangerous precedent. The seventh head has the title "The Right Child and the Discipline." It is recognizable that it was written by a lawyer, because, by the inert of human and citizen rights, he transferred it to a similar double definition. What's reforming in this head is the right of a student to pass a correctional exam from all the cases he has an unsustainable grade. The author of this law well noted that the number of two non-transitional estimates, which constituted a limit to the right to correction, i.e. three non-transitional assessments for the sanctions of repetition, was generally referred to as "decreative". However, the question remains whether the liberalisation of the correction exams will improve the average passivity in our schools that hold to their educational standards. I'm afraid this provision will allow fertile soil for school manipulation and corruption. Finally, in chapter 8, under the title - Teachers, Teachers and Associates, the legislator first mentions teaching, admits that teaching and other forms of educational - educational work at school is realized by the teacher. I don't know what happened before. However, consistent with its concept, the term of teaching disappears again in a further legal process. In this chapter, the legislator also speaks of the license as a new public correction. Is the license a replacement for reelection? If she did, she'd have to be stricter. Chapter 9 under the heading - Oversight over the work of the institution, there is almost nothing to object to. Jobs seem to be well-conceived by administrative and professional - pedagogical supervision. Perhaps, given the nature of the job, an educational worker should have the advantage of a lawyer in choosing as an educational inspector. This is because lawyers of the provision of laws relating to education and education, educational - educational institutions are fairly mechanically interpreted. When it comes to educators, the real ideal would be that the guidance counselor is more professional, in fact, the one who controls him is more professional than the one who controls him and later the report on his work writes. Is that how it works? The tenth chapter on funding educational - educational institutions is particularly sensitive. Part of primary and secondary schools are scheduled to be financed by units of local self-government. This will certainly reflect the educational standard, so schools in poor municipalities and teachers there will be denied for those benefits provided in the richer environments. But what to do. It's a simple reality of life. I wouldn't comment on the punishments. I commend the promoter for giving up his original intention to punish disobedient parents by imprisonment, although I have no doubt that some would rather agree to be arrested than fined. Thanks to the omnibus law and merits in NOB and the Vojvodina Revolution, it has voted on the right for the educational authority to perform with attributes of statehood. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, using the presence of the Ministry of Education, Mr. Knezevic, I dare ask the appointed when he will answer the parliamentary question with whose content I will get to know this auditorium. Yesterday, on May 29th, I wrote to the Minister of Education and his assistant, Mr. Knezevic and Sacibović, a letter from the student J.B., who is difficult to burden Mr. Radoj Žugić, a teacher at the High School in Priboj for sexual harassment, flattering offers and attempted blackmail. The appointed one invited the student to his apartment to give her questions and to give her alleged instructions on the correctional exam. The student came to Mr. Zugic's door in the agreed term and told him that she was accompanied by her boyfriend, which caused his revolt, because his hellish plan had been breached, and his wicked intentions had been defiled.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-04-0.u30630	People's MP, do you use the next 10 minutes?
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-04-0.u30631	About this case with late notice so I couldn't react in time, which produced harmful consequences because Mr. Zugic was then elected Director of the High School in Priboj.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-04-0.u30632	People's MP, are they using for the next 10 minutes? Please stick to the agenda for the next 10 minutes of your time.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-04-0.u30633	Just give me half a minute. Knowing his weakness, several parents reminded me that two decades ago, due to similar acts, Mr. Zugic was expelled from a high school in Zenica and divorced his wife. I'm asking the government what measures will be taken to sanction this serious offense, especially given that it's an act of return. Is the school board of the coastal gymnasium removed by the competent authority aware of this and has the director of the coastal gymnasium been initiated? Thank you very much, and I hope I haven't overstepped in over half a minute. Mr. Minister, I expect your answer, of course. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-04-0.u30634	The speech is attended by MP Bora Stanimirovic, authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group and MPs Nenad Lemajic and Zoran Ćirkovic have replaced the order according to agreement.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-04-0.u30635	When it comes to the license of newspapers proposed by this law, the most irritated are educational workers because they are suspected of the sincerity of this proposal that, every five years, educational workers are somehow evaluated, i.e. to get some licenses, or diplomas, because they are practically diplomas. That's what I'm saying for one practical reason. For the last ten years, because of the very poor material position of education, we have so-called primary and secondary schools. Negative personnel selection. This means that the best ones don't want to study teacher colleges or better said colleges that prepare staff for teaching. How will it be now, after the adoption of this law, which provides for a license, where he will have to constantly follow that education, permanently, I must tell you that it has been so far. But you don't have to achieve all the penalties. Something can happen, at least in the pedagogoggy is known, and it's also awarded. We had one form of reward after the war, and that was so-called. payment classes. There is every teacher, every teacher, who follows, who is permanently educated, who follows every possibility of education that science gives him, who achieves good results, which is confirmed by counselors and inspectors who decided to do so, who received a promotion. He went to a pay grade up front. At the same time, it was a higher personal income. I think that time was the best time. It's not the time of the Socialists, it's the time after the war, about the 50s and so on. The self-management period lifted it, and then all those fights started and stuff. I think that this law, starting with lustration, will lead to a largely negative selection, which means that colleges that prepare staff for primary and secondary schools will be enrolled by weaker students. This practice will show very quickly. Secondly, this centralization that I was talking about earlier when I couldn't finish the exposure because of the time limit, I'd like to finish now. Centralisation is far greater than it was in the previous law, i.e. in this law which is now in force, or in the one that was up to two years ago, when he survived the changes and the additions, so I feel that the minister has too much authority, to the extent that Malta will not be seen by the minister nor by the students nor by the schools nor by the parents. However, the student may be seen in the first two years when there is no grades and we will see him at that nine-year-old school that I have no negative opinion about, when it comes to parenting, we will probably see him in prison for not enrolling in kindergarten. I don't know what that's about. Look, we're predicting a prison for a parent who didn't sign up for preschool as if I were Sweden. That's normal in Sweden. But we're forcing a parent who practically doesn't have any material opportunities, and there's simply no condition for him to sign up for a child, to go to jail. Well, we can't do that. That is why I am afraid that this proposal, too, that this reform, which may even have certain positive solutions and certainly will not succeed precisely because of the very poor material position of people. We cannot fully accept the models of some more developed countries of Norway or some other countries with our material conditions. I think there's gonna be a problem. And I once spoke to the Committee about this when it was necessary to address the issue of nine-year-old education, the issue of a day-long stay, because it was not settled in this law. If that is what we want, if we want such a reform, if we want the student to be freed from some subjects, some content, and I agree that our education system is quite outdated, that we are doing as we were a hundred years ago, but we are not offering a solution, we are not offering what is important, and these are changes in the field of working mode, method of work, first of all, new methods that will enable it, the material conditions that will enable it. It's number one - to provide a full-day stay of children at school, from 9:00 to 14.00 hours; no homework, no child doing everything in school; to provide textbooks that will, in some ways, put in the first plan of students, not teachers. In that case, the teacher would be a real teacher, would be just a coordinator, wouldn't be teaching an ex department, like colleges do today. Now we're talking about elementary and high school, but now the university law is waiting for us. We come into some absurd situations, that we can't know a student or a student, because we have a large number of students or a large number of students in the audiences. Let's just say that the teacher will be able to evaluate, and that's what the law requires, four grades in one midterm, if there are 35 students in the department. Do you know how long it takes - 45 minutes, and every minute has its own technology. You can't skip. It is known when the classes are determined, when the renewals are, how long is the opening part of the class, etc. So, very difficult. Someone's gonna say they're doing it in the West. Yes, they do, but they work differently, they have a different approach, they have different conditions, different textbooks. In one place, I read in law that the minister gives consent to the textbooks. The minister will read all the textbooks? I don't know who can do this, who's an expert who can know all the areas and give his opinion of the textbook. Secondly, when it comes to centers, advice, there are really three tips for such a small state and seven republican centers. When we calculated all of this, it turns out between 3,000 and 4,000 new people who would work in these centers, in these councils, etc. It comes out about 350,000 a quarter, but in a year, it's going to be over a billion dinars, if it's known that the school is in difficult material conditions, and in this, practically, we don't see the school, but we see these centers, we see a minister who decides on all matters. In article 28, he writes - the department's jurisdiction. According to these competences, there are about five responsibilities. That's almost nothing, and anyone would say, "The ministry could shut down." However, if you look at the law, then there is almost no member where the minister does not decide or has no rights. For example, Article 43, the last position reads: "Content and method of keeping the register is prescribed by the minister". There is not a single professional in the country who would do so, but the register must be handled by the minister. For example, Article 59 speaks of the director of the institution, and the last position says: "Nearer conditions for the selection of directors, kind of education, standards of knowledge, skills etc. is prescribed by the minister". Not to read any further, I can do more than half an hour, but I don't have time, because I'm going to get two notices and one exclusion. So that doesn't happen, I'll cut it short, but you'll read it yourself. You will see that the ministry is not doing these jobs provided for in Article 28, but is so centralised that, I said earlier, the minister does not see the school. We are both on the board and through our amendments, the SPS has, on several occasions and in previous laws and in all laws, come from the need to propose such amendments to improve individual laws. That's what we've done now, even though it's not about the opposition. We believe that this is a very important law, that it is so system law, so important for future generations, that it depends on how we decide today, or tomorrow in this House, on what our schools will be and what our generations will be. We're not against the changes that need to be made. (President: Are you using for the next ten minutes? No, no, no, This ministry has had a historic chance to take advantage of everyone's availability and achieve one consensus, to carry out such a reform of education where everyone would accept and that would result in success. Like this, I'm afraid it won't happen.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-04-0.u30636	The word is by MP Nenad Lemajic, an authorised representative of the DSS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-04-0.u30637	The reform of education represents if not the most important, and it is one of the most important segments of the overall transition processes in Serbia. That is why it is extremely important for her to focus properly and be successful. We are facing today a law on the foundation of a system of education, with which several other laws should soon follow. The law provides for very significant changes in the field of education, which have direct consequences for the pedagogical component of the education system. Were the changes in that direction really necessary? According to the DSS, they did. Analysis of the current education system indicates at least two reasons for these changes. The first are organizational natures and are linked to the compatibility of our system with the education systems of European countries. Most European countries today accept a nine-year-old school model or prepare to move on to it. As an example of countries with a nine-year basic school system, Denmark, Greece, Ireland, Portugal, Finland, Sweden, Italy, Luxembourg, etc. The only countries besides ours, in which this eight-year system still applies, according to the four plus four model, are BiH, Croatia, Macedonia, with these countries planning to move to a nine-year mandatory education model. The second group of reasons for these changes is purely pedagogical. Indeed, the period between 12 and 15 years of age is extremely important in growing up. These are some boundaries to be respected. A nine-year-old model respects them in a lot of ways. Obviously, the Ministry of Education understood the trend in European education by offering us a proposal for this law. That's good. To remind me that the DSS has just come out first with the concept of nine-year-old school, viewing it as the most optimal framework for the future education system in Serbia. That's what the DSS agrees with the Ministry of Education. Unfortunately, that begins with our fundamental differences that we have shown through 23 amendments not accepted on the Educational Committee. Our amendments express fundamental and practical differences in observing the process of reforming education. The fundamental differences are related to the formation of a national and educational council, bodies that should create a pedagogical framework for reform. The government's bill also envisions the formation of certain councils. What's the difference? According to our proposal, the National Council should be formed as a body, independent of the Government, in charge of the pedagogical framework of reforms. It must be formed by the Assembly in order to ensure its independence in relation to the often daily political needs of the government and subjection to government, any government, such needs. The current practice in the work of the ministry gives us the right. It is doubtless that the ministry has also begun to deal with the pedagogical framework of reforms. For that purpose, it has hired a group of experts, whose value I will not judge, nor does it need to doubt their quality. But this group of pedagogical experts does not subline the views of our pedagogical public, pedagogical and other education-related institutions. It imposes a concept of pedagogical doctrine which is in many ways exclusive behind which is not a very significant part of our pedagogical public. It is precisely because this, or already tomorrow, second group of educators would not impose a position in the Ministry their own concept of pedagogical doctrine, that a national pedagogical council should be adopted that will find a pedagogical framework, appropriate to the needs of society and education. Reliant on tradition and compatible with European models, and most importantly widely accepted by the pedagogical public. On the other hand, the Ministry should deal with issues related to organisations and material issues, with the provision of all necessary logistics to the National Pedagogical Council. Mr. Minister, speaking on the Committee on the Bills, said quite correctly that he would not tell the truth if he claimed that under the bill advice could make decisions, but that they could have a very significant impact on them. There is a difference in concepts. We believe that the advice, or national advice on our proposal, can and must make decisions regarding pedagogical doctrine. Besides these essentials, there are practical reasons why we expressed reservations according to the law. They are related to our doubts about the overall concept of reform. We expressed this view through the second group of amendments, which we asked for the delayed functioning of those members of the law that are related to the reform of the structure of curricula and programmes, i.e. the reorganisation of schools in nine years, and conditioned the start of the reform of classrooms, conditionally stated since the first September 2003. We believe that this start should be delayed by one year. Why do we think that? We believe that the speedy entry into the reform for which it was created would be possible for the adoption of this law to create a legal framework, but without a rounded pedagogical framework to be poor. First of all, we are referring to curricula and programmes that are not clearly defined, teaching staff training, which, regardless of the ministry's apparent efforts to do something quickly, is quite insufficient. And to the textbook reform, which should actually begin just these days. If we understand the minister correctly in a statement given on the Educational Committee. In addition to the fact that the financial framework for reform is not clearly defined, we are threatened with the danger of entering a risky space very quickly. A significant number of countries, transition countries, have entered reforms quite quickly. But there were also those who defined themselves as one more slow pace in education reforms. Practice has shown that countries that have decided on a longer period of preparation have achieved better results. The most drastic example of rapid and unsuccessful reform is certainly Romania, which, after the "reform" wing, is immediately under which these processes were implemented, is today ready to take some steps backwards. Unlike Romania, Slovenia is a very different example of education reform. In 1991, Slovenia launched a public debate on education reform, to begin adopting a strategic document in 1995. These are principles, theoretical starting points and all elements of the educational structure. The reform started gradually, and only in some schools in 1999, so that only in 2003 would all schools go to a new school system. The compromise of education reform in our country would be devastating. We remember the trauma to the generations of students and the educational staff left behind a mid - 1970 reform of education, which as a model was not badly imagined, but in practice was an educational disaster. A bad reminder of that time is certainly not a good basis for gaining support for the current reform. For a poor view of reform in a significant part of the pedagogical public, including the general public, the guilt is partly borne by the ministry. It is at the moment when the resistance to its concept was met, I am not going into whether these resistances were justified or not, whether they were justified or because of prejudice, instead of finding a new methodology, and obtaining an educational public, turned a blind eye and went on, largely inaccessible for remarks that needed more quality to be answered, even when these remarks were unfounded. I would say one more thing about another difference in the current ministry's concepts and the Democratic Party of Serbia regarding education reform. The Democratic Party of Serbia advocates the concept of primary school six plus three. The match is the difference between our concept and the concept proposed by this law, as it is also a nine-year cycle. We believe that through this concept, our educational reality will be clearly expressed. The mid-cycle at the nine-year-old school, proposed by the ministry, is not as distant as the first and third cycles. We think it will prove very quickly that he is much closer to the first cycle than the third cycle, and that for that reason he should be connected to him for both pedagogical reasons, most of the class classes within the closed group, and for practical reasons related to the teaching organisation itself.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-04-0.u30638	Do you use the next 10 minutes?
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-04-0.u30639	I'll be done in three seconds. Even more arguments give the announced concept of the electoral teaching of modules and the internal differentiation of students to be performed in the last three classes. That is why we think that at this point there is still the possibility that the Serbian ministry will accept these, I would say the most measured and well-intentioned objections of the DSS, whose adoption of education reforms could restore the management of the course from which it has at one point turned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-04-0.u30640	Do any of the other presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? National MP Zivko Selakovic as an authorised representative of Serbia's parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-04-0.u30641	Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we've heard the negatives of this law so far. The sighting of Serbia's parliamentary group and mine personally is that there is a bright side, so I will look back on the bright side. The proposed legislative proposal, according to a general assessment, is an attempt to introduce European standards into our education system, and this attempt should certainly be welcomed. Believing that the law is more important in repairing the situation in our schooling, it also places Serbia in order of European countries and in an orderly school system. One of the new solutions is the introduction of the Council, and that of the Educational Council, the Council for Professional Education and the Council for Harmonization of Views in Education. A significant issue is the financing of these bodies, which will in general be carried out from the budget, when considering problems related to the scale of budget expenditures. The establishment of a Centre for Education of Persons in need of special social support should be singled out, as this directs social concern towards those most needed, thus eliminating diversity. In Article 37. The bill specifically educates the extracurricular activity of students, an expanded activity, which applies in most cases to secondary vocational schools training students for practical work in various areas. In particular, Article 45 regulates the institution's obligation to ensure the safety of children during the educational process, which strengthens the responsibility of the institutions themselves. The clear determination of responsibility affects the improvement of the security situation. Article 47 introduces an important newspaper that has not been part of the law so far, they have treated education, which is the protection of children's rights. In particular, there is a ban on physical abuse, as well as a ban on insulting children's personality, ban on making differences on the basis of faith, nations, etc. A particularly interesting solution is offered by Article 51, which is the integration of secondary vocational schools into professional associations, which enables better coordination between professional schools, exchanges of experience, and joint stages in their work. This also provides two-way communication between the ministry and schools, allowing schools to influence decision-making in their profession. One of the significant extensions of the rights adopted by this legislative project is the empowerment of the advice of parents who, among other things, have an impact on the determination of the electoral object, participation in the creation, i.e. in school management, the impression of the educational programme. These powers have clearly led to a wider democratisation of the school system and thus enabled participation in the decision-making process to the most interesting side, which is the parents of children. One of the good solutions is the compulsory adoption of a school and preschool programme, which further regulates the field of education. The same obligations also determine the introduction of an electoral item, which is Article 71. This leaves the initiative to students to potentially influence their own education, directing it to those areas that are most interesting. As the initiative is encouraged in young people, as well as the awareness of deciding for themselves about their own destiny, which is important for building a stable personality of each individual. The most significant newspaper introduced by this law is an increase in the duration of education to nine years for primary education. At first glance, this solution is an unnecessary extension of education, but it should be stressed that this is the right solution for our schooling. This allows children to grow up longer, which means the best possible choice of professions. It should be stressed that the move of the decision by one year and that it gives time to a future high school student to make the right decision to prevent a potential error in choosing a future profession. Under the same changes, foreign language learning has been foreseen since the first grade of primary school. This is a revolutionary change that will allow through the necessary education that can be applied in various areas of life, such as the Internet. The 90th is committed by parents, but also by preschool institutions to provide adequate preschool education for six months, before the child leaves for school four hours a day. This solution should be welcomed because it provides a period of necessary child adaptation at a level to a new environment. This prevents the child’s negative reaction to the newspaper that brings the school into his life. Article 96 refers to the introduction of the right of students to be supported. The possibility of establishing a student parliament, the right to appeal, to assess, the right to insight and others is provided. Special establishment of the student parliament should be mentioned. This solution is a newspaper in our education and represents positive progress and convergence with European values and standards. This way will provide a crucial source of ideas, which is certainly expected of the students themselves, and this can only improve the system of education. The introduction of the student parliament also encourages learning about democracy at the earliest age of maturation and thus enables students to find out in a practical way what democracy is in practice. The legislative proposal introduces a number of new obligations for teachers themselves, such as mandatory licensing, clear definition of the breach of labour obligations, clear required maintenance of teachers and educators. In the end, we can conclude that this legal project only restores the normal guarantee, or project, by guaranteeing students that the system of rights that had been taken from them by the previous law, a legal solution. It should be pointed out that this bill should support the whole, as its adoption would ensure a modern organisation of our education, and would allow Serbia to move closer to the world processes in the area of education. To conclude, on the basis of an outright comment, on the proposal for a law on the basis of an education and education system, a parliamentary group of Serbia, myself and the Peasant Party of Serbia will support the bill and vote for its adoption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-04-0.u30642	The word has a minister in the government of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Gašo Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-04-0.u30643	I apologize to you for taking my word again, I'm going to try to spend as little time as possible, I took this opportunity when my presentation ended with the heads of Parliament's groups to clear something up, not to be chaotic, but to actually see where we are from these discussions right now. There are old ones with whom, I think we can say that we all agree. So, from these speeches that preceded mine, it comes from all the speeches that reform is needed. This is what we all agree on, that these reforms must include discharging programs for all who have talked about, one of the problems of society, therefore, the overworked university programme, that they must enable a more quality teacher's staff and that such reform has the support of both parents and children. So the political structures that you represent, and the general public, I'm talking about parents and children, have a similar attitude. It seems to me that there's an agreement, except in a small number of exceptions, then that school still lasts nine years, if it wasn't out of mind, that's what it seems to me that would have majority support here. There's still some sub-topics that aren't controversial. These sub-topics are professional training. So, you all want to increase the quality of the teaching staff, everyone realizes that the Ministry would have to lose some of its power, or that it should be decentralised and as a parallel to that, institutions are needed new. Now, about decentralisation, we have little dilemmas here, because the SRS parliamentary group, it seems to me that it insists on actually another one, or that there is no decentralisation to this extent that it is intended, while others are mostly going towards that decentralisation. My answer to that is, if you look at it, one thing is the general provisions of the law, so the first part. The other thing is a transit order. In transit provisions you will find answers to many questions. When the minister makes a decision, he makes a proposal. So, the decentralisation system is being decentralised by someone appearing as a pronoun, and that someone has been identified in the system. So it's already known and it's determined which person it is. I don't think there would be a need for great differences at the level of decentralisation. And that ends with actually that field of harmony, the discrepancy is actually about, let's say, one thing that's organizational. This is whether and to what extent the professional public was involved in this project and one more serious one, launched by the Democratic Party of Serbia, is the most concrete, although we also have a proposal from the Social Democratic Party, therefore from political action, that is the educational council and its role. So, who chooses the educational advice. As for this public involvement, I have to tell you that we've been in public debate since January 2002, that what I'm holding in my hand, everything has come to all schools. So all the schools that have it, it didn't come now, it was sent and it's sweetly succesive. Here's the basics of the school program. I didn't want to take them out because they didn't come a long time ago, but they left very freshly. So they're informed. In addition, in agreement with two publishing houses, we will send in 250,000 copies informers in principle - questions and answers, questions and responsible teachers, questions and answers to parents. It will get free, free-looking, all school teachers in Serbia and all parents whose children go to first class and 80,000 teachers. They will get that by the end of June, or the result will depend on how this law passes in the Assembly, whether we print it or not. So, information that may be a problem, I think we'll be able to warn. The other is a problem that obviously, at least at first sight, we disagree, it's a problem of educational advice. In fact, the question is very simple. Who guarantees the independence of the educational council? Is it guaranteed by the Government, if she appoints him, or by the Assembly, if she appoints him? I think that independence basically guarantees itself a composition, that's a principled answer. Therefore, whether you or we, if we are the Government and you are the Assembly, will appoint him, it is done. If they are independent personalities, then he will be independent. Let us allow there to be a dispute in this and allow MPs in the Assembly to have more confidence in the Assembly, and ministers from the government, more confidence in the government. I can't wait to discuss it when we're talking about amendments. I think that's convenient ground, and there's a way to find a way out of both pleasures. Of course, when I sum up, since I've written down the remarks of all those who have spoken, there are objections that stand at first sight, but don't actually stand. Mr. Bane Ivkovic said, he was the first to speak, and then some of them repeated that we have extraordinary schools. Gentlemen, I'll answer that. We have extraordinary schools for three to five percent of the population. We have schools that can enroll the fit for the whole world. That's true, but we cut the woods for one chair. We're bad schooling 95 or 97%, we've got a bad system for them, and we've got a good one in an elite sense for perfect students. These students, trust me on the experience, I'm a educator, I'm a professor, these students would be great and despite the system, because they're such a mental structure, that they actually need training, but very controversial. That's the answer to those remarks that our school is good. I appreciate the traditions of our school. Let's get one more thing straight. Neither does "A" from America in these papers. If we're aware of something, we're aware that their primary and high school is just bad. Not only are we aware of it, they're aware of it themselves, so they're trying to change it. So if there's someone in these papers, it's original paper, but the reputation has, the reputations are possibly Sweden, Slovenia, Finland, England. These are the lands that were the closest to our reputations. Consultations have been carried out even though no one has imposed. We felt the need to see if our system was compatible with Europe, with the European Union and the Council of Europe. They gave the green light to the concept, but we've only given some countries out of there and taken into consideration at all, because we know what the best system is. This team sitting in the Ministry has experience and knows what systems they are. Professor Radulovic, Ministry of Faith, or the influence of the church, the Academy of Science has not been consulted. They're individuals who got into teams, but like a house, they don't. Our court was that it was a scientific institution, and that this was an elementary and high school. For the university law, probably to a greater extent. The churches themselves had everything, long before the MPs, our materials circulated through the Ministry of Faith and we have their answers. They're not in principle negative. You know that church communities, or religious communities, are not unique, so within Orthodox, Catholic or other religious communities, there are probably people who like them more or less, I allow, but we have in principle relative support on their part. What I would ultimately like to say was how participatory the union was, since it was the Social Democratic Party that pointed out as an objection. I answer to them - we were visiting Serbia in the union organization. In union organization, 150,000 people listened to the story of the Ministry of Education reform. We tried to cover everything. There's an objective circumstance, and I'm sorry to end it. Before the day of Mr. Djindjic's murder, he and I heard from each other, we agreed that the next day, on the day of the murder, we would organise a press conference and that I would announce that we were going into reform and that since then, the Ministry of Education's action had begun. Unfortunately, it was distracted by the reasons that were out of our control, let's call them force majeure, but that's why the Ministry entered a new action 10 days ago. I have already started to visit Serbia and my colleagues will also be running around Serbia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-04-0.u30644	National MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, deputy president of the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group, right to replication, comments by the minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-04-0.u30645	I take it as my right to interpret what I already said in the principle debate, in terms of centralization or apparently some decentralisation. It's obviously very modern, when it comes to our government, that everything it carries on to someone else is called decentralisation. This isn't about decentralisation, because all these programs, practically everything that is in the jurisdiction of these councils you've proposed, and we're trying to remain just this one, educational advice with these powers that you've predicted, because these two are completely unnecessary and just bureaucratizing the whole education business. That enlightens the advice, if it's capable of bringing in the general basics of preschool education, and you say you've already done the basics of the school program and preschool and school, then we don't see what they're going to do in the future, but I guess we'll follow that. However, we cannot agree that you lower school programs to the level of local self-government, because we are in favour of a single system. There's got to be some kind of minimum, something at the state level that has to exist. It cannot now be allowed for local self-government to decide what to do and how to plan in the area of the school programme for any level of primary or secondary or pre-school education. That's what we're up against, and we're against natural persons or foreign individuals starting schools in our country's territory on foreign programs. I don't mind, some Albania, if it's interested in starting a school in Presevo or Bujanovac, should pay for that school, but a programme that is being studied in this country must be studied. We won't let that happen. Not only in Presevo and Bujanovac, they can do so in the middle of Belgrade. It doesn't lead to anything. We're not against the English coming to start their school here in English. However, it means cost-lossing to those parents who intend to educate their children abroad, so why send them from such small legs abroad, let them learn English here by English, and then they'll finish their colleges there. It can't be done exactly as you imagined. It's very dangerous. We had an example in Kosovo and Metohija on education under foreign programmes, and we saw what that led to. So private schools in Serbia can also be established by natural persons. Whoever wants to pay for it, let them train their children like that, and whoever won't, can't or doesn't trust it, as many today don't trust different private universities, so their children are educated exclusively at the state university, no matter how much it costs, because it takes a pass to provide for a higher level of education, because they need someone after that expert and to hire.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-04-0.u30646	The word is made by Minister Gašo Knezevic, followed by MP Zarko Obradovic, the second announcement as chairman of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-04-0.u30647	I'd say it's a misunderstanding of Mrs. Pop-Lazic when it comes to the establishment, but I'll do it in a second step. The school programs are in a certain percentage absolutely centralised, if I can go back to the terminology that you used. For the first cycle, 90%. So, 10% of us transfer, as you say, to the local field. For the second cycle, 20%, for the third cycle, 30%. Everything else is centralized. So the state prescribes that Serbian language must all study throughout the course of education, that mathematics must all throughout all education, that physical and health must all throughout education. So there are interests that the state won't give up and I think we share those values and interests. That's not the problem. The problem is that we allowed creativity in a small percentage and as children grow the percentage increases because children's needs are increasing and changing. As for the establishment of primary schools, as it is possible that there will be problems, censorships are never put in place for the establishment of schools but for this law. We have, in principle, opened the door of establishment and it is not disputed. I think it's democratic, but primary schools, anyone who's the founder, are working on our programs. Come on, guys, let's not mix the grandmothers and frogs. So primary schools work on our programs. High school can also work on a foreign program, if we're accrediting it, so if the Ministry gives consent to that. This team won't be in the Ministry for life, and we all know that. They'll change, other people will come, other profiles. I'm not saying we made a reservation for ourselves. We just let that thing into a democratic procedure. If a foreign school is working with an unaccredited program, which is also one of the options, then it must pass the nostrification process, as if it were based abroad. So there's no difference. What's much sharper than it is so far and we're proving that we're fighting a gambling education capital that wants to get here fast, start a school and leave, that's that every founder has to give us a three-year bank guarantee for the funds provided. No one has set that condition. We set it up and, therefore, we want a serious entrance, a serious approach to education. It's not easy to find a partner's bank to track you down and guarantee your capital for the next three years. So we've closed the doors to capital a lot, and if you ask international experts and people who follow a comparative education that the country has slightly opened the door to private education, the answer will be Serbia, because it's an objective thing. We kept the door closed for almost two years. Now we've opened them up a little bit, but with a lot of censorship and a lot of fulfillment of the additional conditions. I hope so, ma'am, we've cleared this up, too.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-04-0.u30648	The word is from MP Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-04-0.u30649	I didn't mean to answer, but the minister pulled his leg on this first call, so I'd like to, while he's here, that, once again, on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, I'd like to give an assessment of this law. In fact, we have said that the SPS will not vote for this law, because, in our opinion, there is almost no word in this bill on the education and education system. On the contrary, we think that the law is chaotic, that it is inconsistencies, that it has taken various solutions from several laws and probably from several different countries. It is not sufficiently highlighted and protected state interests in this area. It is a restrictive and discriminatory character, very far from the declared objectives of democratisation, decentralisation and professionalisation, because literally all powers are concentrated with the minister of education. The law disciplines employees, from director to teacher. It is too much, in our opinion, bureaucratic and will cost Serbia and its citizens dearly. It will cost dearly, because the existing education and education system first collapses, and it does not offer a new better, better quality. Secondly, to bring down an existing system, a number of people will get good money. It is now clear why this law is passed practically in silence, without direct TV transmission of the Assembly. There was a requirement for the law to be removed from the assembly procedure, to open the right public debate, because the fact is that in a narrow circle people discussed it. Of course, the public doesn't have to. He doesn't want it, because he just wants this law to be passed as soon as possible and without great earthquakes. We believe that many questions in this law have been skipped, many have just begun, but there is no answer in the law knowingly. At the meeting of the Assembly Committee, it was seen that individual solutions to the bill were the political compromise of DOS parties and the proposing, however poor and contradictory the solutions, the other provisions of the law did not have the courage of the political one, without entering this second one, to oppose it. Yesterday, I was at the Committee meeting with Professor Bora Stanimirovic, I must say that as a member of the Committee, seeing that politics and volunteerism dominate facts and professions, he resigned from the Committee membership because, and he said publicly, he does not want us, as a Socialist Party, to participate in something we believe, in our opinion, that it is very bad and that the generations of young people will have certain harm, and thus the Republic of Serbia. This law represents a classic example of subpremation of bureaucracy over professorial and professional staff. Thus, the law provides for the establishment of three councils - educational councils, advice on vocational education and advice on harmonising attitudes in education. These counsel should cooperate and coordinate their views. It is predictable that the advice in the composition will have several smaller subcommittees for pre-school, primary, secondary education and education, adult education, whose work will be accompanied by a huge administrative apparatus. That's not all, because the law stipulates that advice can also educate commissions, expert teams and other working bodies. In addition to the council, the establishment of seven new centres is envisaged, not to mention them for a short period of time. Of course, as it is here, as with the council, someone needs to work, the centres are scheduled to educate special expert teams. So also the centres of special expert teams for individual questions. In this way, 10,000 people will analyse, talk, conceive, receive profits, compensation, in one word spend money, and decisions will be made by the resolution minister. That this law absolutely has nothing to do with the decentralisation and democratisation of education and education systems, is best confirmed by the powers of the minister. Full centralization has been performed. The minister owns absolute authority. It's up to her, she decides everything. Here's the evidence for this claim. The minister, in accordance with the provisions of this law, adopts sublaws that prepare and propose advice or centres. Article 27 - prescribes closer conditions for the establishment, start of work and performance of educational and educational institutions. Article 34 - prescribes standards of knowledge, skills and competence for accreditation of training and training programmes. Article 42 - prescribes closer conditions for the selection of directors, type of education, standards of knowledge, skills and competences for directors, the way and procedure of verifying the mastery of training programmes for directors and the authority of the administration to determine its sovereignty, as well as the assurance of the mastered programme. Article 59 - appoints the acting director. The Member shall adopt acts laying down the mandatory annual fund of the course, the Article 73. prescribes standards of knowledge, skills and competences with the accreditation of training programmes, the Article 76. prescribes educational profiles in secondary vocational education and training on the proposal of the competent advice, Article 77. prescribes the school calendar, Article 81. approves the use of multiple textbooks for the same subject in the same class, as well as the use of foreign textbooks, Article 95 regulations the achievement of outcomes in the education and evaluation of students as well as criteria, the way and the procedure for assessing the success of individual subjects and actions and other questions of labelling on the proposal of the competent centre, Article 102 of the final exam programme in the primary school, Article 104 of the general mature programme, Article 105 of the program of professional and artistic matur, Article 106 of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Program of the Professionals, Article 106. There are more, and I counted over 25. Oh, that's decentralisation. When, in addition to the above-mentioned powers of the Minister, mention and business of the Ministry, the obligation to pass a number of special laws, it is only then that you can see and understand the situation of decentralisation of decision-making in education and education with the Minister i.e. The ministries and the gaps with the declared objectives of democratisation and decentralisation in this area. I wouldn't even mention this if it wasn't in the law that this was particularly stressed. But so much for what the law says and what the goals are. The law is bad because it provides for the discipline of staff in education and training by direct and indirect application of criminal measures to the director of institutions and teachers, educators and professional associates. If the institution is on strike, regardless of the reasons, the Ministry may prohibit the work of the institution or replace the Director previously. The current government will punish most people who helped her in 1994, 1995 and 1996 in this way because it was then popular to invite people to a strike in education because it was then in the function of destroying the system and the SPS. Now he obviously wants to achieve another goal. The discriminatory spirit of the law is also present through licensing, which in our opinion is just a different name for lustration in education and elimination from the work of inadequate staff. The Director may, however, have absolute control over the employees through the right given by the law to establish their status in full and part-time work. Not to mention the annual vacations and the current scheduled status. Inconsistencies, logical inconsistency, double arches, volunteerism, the proponents are also visible through the provisions of laws that have a criminal character. Thus, the parent or guardian of a child who does not enrol a child, mentioned by Professor Bora Stanimirovic, in kindergarten for attending a preschool prep programme, or if the child attends the institution irregularly, can be fined or punished for up to 30 days. At the same time, the school director who was relieved by the managing authority of his duties because he committed 13 different violations. The 63rd law, which includes the physical punishment or insult of the child's personality, can be done by the minister's will, we heard on the Committee yesterday, not only to be amnesty of everything, but to continue to do business as if nothing had happened. Or, in the case of serious injuries to labour obligations, endangerment or injury to the physical or mental integrity of a child, i.e. a student, physical punishment, moral, sexual or otherwise committed abuse and injury of rejection of the results of a written examination of knowledge to students, i.e. parents, i.e. The guardians, which is pointless. In the category of funny and unserious for this system of education and education that is proposed, as well as the schools themselves, are the provisions of the laws that give the possibility to a student who has 10 or 12 units in all cases so that he can pass the correctional exam and surely finish the class successfully. In one word, the proposed law on the foundation of education and education systems is a bad law with even a number of unpredictable bad consequences for the young generation. This law cannot be changed. He's who he is. It would be best if the promoter would like to pull it back, but it's obvious that he has no intention of doing so, because he did everything he could to be adopted in a media and in the easiest way mildly spoken. The assembly, in our opinion, should not adopt such a law. Either way, we Socialists won't vote for his adoption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-04-0.u30650	We move to debate in order of the MPs. According to the application for a word in the initial search, the first registered speaker is MP Velimir Simonovic, based on Article 89(3). Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-04-0.u30651	Please, let's leave this for after the break.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-04-0.u30652	I ask you to consult the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of Article 89, paragraph 3, which prescribes that the MP who has the right to use the provisions of this member is five minutes in principle. It's 13 hours and 54 minutes and five minutes is 13 and 59.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-04-0.u30653	I always have a misunderstanding with the presidents, so it's already known here. I don't see the possibility here except to borrow the lady for a few minutes because in five minutes, I can't say anything about this law. Or if someone else can give me some time. I'll start with what the old, wise Socrates said in Athens. "If Athens doesn't have a good tailor, the Athenians will go badly dressed." "If Athens doesn't have a good shoemaker, the Athenians will go barefoot." But, "If Athens doesn't have good schools, Athens will fail." So it's very important that we have good school laws because education and the creation of citizens starts from primary school to university, and if there's something wrong in that system, we're going to ruin this country's future, not just the ones we educate and their future. I used to say, like in colleges in fundamental science in the first two years, so then the strict Professor Simonović, the strict one or the one, so it's hard to lay down, and then it gets lost for some years, and I told my colleagues this more in a joke, of course, let's miss a few generations, give the six mass, that we're missing a few generations that will become machine engineers without knowledge, and then they'll go into business, so they won't know how to do anything, and then we ruined the country. Well, if that's the point, let's act like it, please nice, then fine. So the job and the school, the job of school teachers who work at all levels, is an extremely responsible job, and if that job is not done without enthusiasm, and I use the old word, so I say - if this job is not done without love, there is no job. Unfortunately, in our schools today, there is not much enthusiasm in elementary and high school. This job is often lost from misery. It's an honor to many teachers who are still doing it with enthusiasm, even though they are in poor material conditions, etc., and the same goes for the university. How does a university professor with enthusiasm work if his salary is, for example, his salary. 15,000 dinars. He has to deal with some side effects, to secure his existence rather than exclusively commit himself to science and students. So if we look at the order around this law, a little more concrete, let's say, even though it's coming out of the Ministry of Education, I don't like the language it's written. I have repeatedly made remarks on the text, in language and spoken to ministers - take from the Faculty of Philology people - lecturers to read you these laws. But if I have to comment on it right now -- if that law comes from the Ministry of Education, where I guess the people who finished the Philological Faculty are sitting, then what does that mean? There are many bureaucratic dictionaries in this law. For example, Article 2 says maximum horizontal and vertical mobility. What maximum mobility? Please, just say horizontal and vertical mobility. I don't know what it is in Article 3. - the development of intellectual capitals. What does that mean, please? Article 9(9): "Building its own system of values and values". Do we expect children in primary school to create valuable attitudes for themselves? I would recommend the minister, but he probably saw it and he had to see, since he's also a professor at Law School, to take the law that Ljuba Davidović passed in 1908, the law was called about a folk school, to read how the primary school assignment was defined, what to do with children. "Student Courts" - boy in elementary school! Or, he says, "Known the development of nature and society." This can never be studied at the university until the end, to give students all the knowledge of the development of nature and society. Then, various phrases: "friendship, acceptance of the value of religious life" etc. It's not clear what "helper teacher" is. That category didn't exist. I don't know where the school is defined. I don't know where it's supposed to come from to be an auxiliary teacher. Here he says of teachers one dangerous thing, Article 6 paragraph 2: "The persons employed in the institution are obliged to contribute by their work and overall behaviour to the achievement of the objectives of education and education." I'm very afraid the moral-political resemblance of teachers is hidden here. I'm afraid that's because it's so beautifully hidden -- "total behavior." It can be very dangerous. - Founding a center. Who uses the first word: "evaluation". That's amazing. Look, in our courts, there's no more trial, now there's a trial. Someone in the translation said the procession, I guess Minister Batic, so now there's no more trial. "Evolution," besides our kind words for this thing. It was once used by someone in the ministry or I don't know where and now everybody's repeating it. Then, these centers: for the development of the program, for education. To tell you the truth, I'm a little surprised that our colleague, Knezevic, didn't propose one agency here. It's fashion in our government - with every law, agency. There could be even two, three agencies here. Article 27, I'm not going to quote it, it's a language cartoon. Well done to whoever wrote article 27. In Article 39, the minister may close the school if he strikes. Here, in all of France now strike educational workers. How can he shut down the school for stopping work? It's amazing to even dare write such a thing. Since I belong to those who want to respect the rights of the students and to protect the students, etc., but it is the duty of the students to teach us to teach them, to give them concrete knowledge. You must know the rules of the game. They can't have kids with so many rights without having to do anything. You know the rules of the game, what a student has to do, how to behave, etc. This law speaks so much of the rights of children, and nowhere does it speak of the rights of professors. I'll tell you one drastic example that happened last year in a high school in Belgrade. One of the boys had a low grade in physics and failed his physics exam. It's about an excellent physics teacher who didn't give him a positive grade. There comes a mad mother, because parents always think their children are more valuable to them than we teachers judge and hit that teacher. The director cancels that exam, schedules a new one in a week, and that boy passes the exam. What the least the minister had to do at that time is move that student out of that school, so he wouldn't have to meet that teacher anymore. That's not what happened. Well, then, about the repetition. Ladies and gentlemen, high school is not mandatory. How can we let someone with 10 units pass a correctional exam? No, he can't go to school anymore. The competent commission has to conclude that this young man or girl is no longer for school. Either he doesn't want to study or he can't learn, or he can go to private school, so he can lay down and pay and finish school, but he can't be in regular school. Over the whole year, he didn't get a single pair, the units themselves, but now he's going to take office in June, August, September, so it's going to end. We'll see how it goes. Article 46: "Employees have an obligation to contribute with their work and overall behaviour to the development of a positive atmosphere". If we take the original meaning of the word "atmosphere," she has no place here even in my well-intentioned desire to somehow indirectly show that she could be used here. So then there's a negative atmosphere, as some say about negative energy, but it's physically completely pointless. There are professional associations in the 51st. All right, a couple of high schools are uniting into a professional association. What are their options? Whether their proposals are mandatory or they can only tell stories, so nothing. That's pretty vague. I'm sorry that this time the bill was not used to finally returning to our constitution, that we were a lay country and that there was no room in public schools. And the new constitution will predict that the church and the state are separate, so Serbia will continue to be a lay country, especially as we have a year-to-year experience, two days, with which neither religious communities nor schools are satisfied. This was to be separated, that everyone was doing their job, that state schools were doing their job, and that the church communities should establish a religious community in their rooms, etc. I've even said before that if the church doesn't have a suitable room nearby, that the school director can say - I'll give you one classroom or one afternoon a week, so you organize a class, if you don't have your own rooms, but nothing more. I'm also sorry it wasn't introduced that it was our tradition. Not that the ministry has some inspectors, etc., but that it should have introduced what existed in the Kingdom of Yugoslavia and perhaps a few years after the war - inspectors sent by the minister. They weren't paid, they weren't ministry officials, but when they went to visit a school, they eventually got a daily or travel expenses. These were mostly university professors and very rarely some high school directors, say, famous director of a Belgrade high school, so the minister sent him to the inspection, say, to go to the gymnasium in Vranj, to visit her. They spend two, three days, they go to class and watch what's going on, they write down some grade of their own about that high school, and then after telling the minister what their findings are. He must have been present when she graduated. He was sitting there for a week, how much graduation was taking. Not to mention prom. Let me tell you right now that I'm against doing these so-called. proms, like so far, because the largest number of them, don't say that's not true, parents or friends of parents do, etc., and some even pay for it. Very rarely, graduation work has some meaning. One director told me that a group of two, three students went to investigate the pollution of the cannon river, to describe, take water samples, check in the lab, and that looked like something. Unfortunately, most of these works are full copying, and most often other people work for that child. That should be lifted. Maybe we should turn this other prom up. A good Belgrade high school has 430 graduates this year. As you know, everyone has written in Serbian, and then they can choose from mathematics or language. The way kids behave, when it's rational, out of all these graduates, only three worked in math. So it's easier to lay their tongues. I've seen math on the table, and I'm asking the director if it's no longer a secret, if it's open, and he says "look." When I saw those tasks, they were exaggeration. Twelve assignments for three school classes, that's really a lot. However, I would give every child in Europe, except France, to solve these tasks for three school hours. I don't count on French high school, because math is very much studied. These others, send an English child to do those tasks.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-04-0.u30654	I find that MP Velimir Simonovic spoke 14 minutes and 30 seconds past the parliamentary rules. So, nine minutes and 30 seconds at the expense of an entirely unusual time that I would spend as a MP, but not with the content that MP Velimir Simonovic presented. Thank you. I'll see you at 15.00 hours at the beginning of the afternoon. [[After break – 16,00]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, continue the session in the afternoon and please insert your cards to determine if we have a quorum to work with. I find that we have a quorum to work on and we continue to debate in principle on the application for word in principle on the draft law on the basis of the education and education system. The word is by MP Dragisa Popovic, followed by MP Petar Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-04-0.u30656	Mrs. Komic, Mr. Minister, honourable fellow Members, education reform has been going on since the moment the DOS took over in this country. Before this law came the amendments and additions that bridged this period to this law that uniquely observes pre-school, primary and secondary education. I respect the opinion of MPs, Mr Radulovic, who said that this law is both fundamental and roof and that we are installing in this law everything that is good in our education system. We really want to bring the work of education to the level of economic opportunities that are currently in place and to improve the position of educational workers. The law is reformable, normal, because the government is also reforming. There's no dispute here. The reform government of Mr Djindjic, the reform government of Mr Zivkovic, and what is at the heart of this law? There's a student downtown with all his rights and obligations. Member of the 47th student is particularly protected and is particularly respected by the subject in the teaching process. The reform government has also respected teaching staff, because from one system, ten-year-olds where teachers have been demeaned, unsuspected, in every way possible, however, with the help of this government and on the basis of our economic potential, we have brought our profession to one, so to speak, a satisfactory, or decent level. This law goes towards decentralisation. I especially point out in this law a member who regulates the network of schools. The introduction of a secondary school into the law gives the possibility for municipalities with fewer inhabitants to meet the needs they have, to have municipalities with 30, 25 or maybe 40,000 residents in that high school high school, these students usually go to college afterwards, to go from professional schools, but thus comes out to meet local environments to perform in a proper and valid manner in all professions in the municipality. This law has one bad news. Bad news is for the school principal. School directors were beat up by the Socialists, they were scared and shivering, and to God, with us at DOS, directors if they want to stay in office, if they intend to stay in office, they have to work well, and secondly, they are not guaranteed jobs after the directorial term. Normally, I don't run for director, with this solution I didn't agree with the minister, but what's there is, it's explained that it goes from that position of director who was everything and everyone in school to the position of director to be manager, to being an associate, to being the helper. The good news is that if there is no candidate in the first competition with high professional training, and he is elected a senior candidate, he can get out of the DSS, well, that in a way we get out of one state when we've had senior directors for a long period of time. The good thing is, it's a good solution that the Ministry, which the government has accepted, the good news is, now we're going from the bad news, we're going towards the good news, for teachers that the norm of the class is 20 hours a week. What are we accomplishing here? We are legalizing the current situation, because this norm is practically done, although the current law says 24, and in the proposal of the Ministry it is 24, but we are creating additional space to control teachers more to better prepare for our teaching to be quality. Next, what's the good news for champion students? The good news is that those of us who pass this law and that the minister, as the children call Mr. Gashhu, declares that school is easier, and that in the first and second classes, there is no grading, then that will be the place where children will rather go and where we will bring the school closer to the children. The good news is for the whole system of education and education to create an obligation for each child to go to kindergarten, to pass that cycle of preschool education, to normally continue the first and third cycles of this compulsory education. All in all, once again, I thank my colleagues from the Committee on Education and the Ministry who accepted the amendments to the Committee, and this came to meet the demands of colleagues, teachers, so this is a reform law, a law that restores dignity to this profession. Indeed, the government has made it the maximum possible to restore dignity to an educator. At the very end, I must, on behalf of my colleagues, and on behalf of my profession, deny the allegations of one of the previous speakers, and those allegations state certain lies. The director of Radoje Žugić, director of the school... (President: People's MPs, I ask you to stick to the topic of the agenda. )......................................................................................................... has the support of the collective, has the support of the school board, has the support of the ministry in Priboj and that all the allegations are incorrect, there is material evidence for that. I apologize to Mrs. Komic for spending a little time telling the truth about my colleague, whether I knew him or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-04-0.u30657	The People's MP Petar Petrovic has the word, followed by the MP Anita Beretic. National MP Zoran Ćirkovic, right to replication from the presentation of MP Dragisa Popovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-04-0.u30658	I do not dispute, ladies and gentlemen, that Mr. Jugic has the references the predecessor made. But those who wrote it were in terrible error. It's just that they didn't have any knowledge of it. If Mr. Secretary knew what he knew then, he certainly wouldn't have signed a befel to be the director. And I, ladies and gentlemen, have a letter from that student. It's behind nine locks, and you can't take that evidence away from me. I'm showing you that letter now. One side, the other side, written in Latin, with a favorite letter from some MPs. By the way, the truth is, it's probably what Velija Ilic wrote between the two mayhems. The third party ends with a signature. Here you go, gentlemen, defend yourselves. I'm in possession of the adjuts in my hands. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-04-0.u30659	The word has a minister in the government of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Gašo Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-04-0.u30660	No matter what the agenda is, I respect the need to speak, I just asked an MP on the Educational Committee, we need to protect the individuals in question. Don't let a underage child come to the public in any way, and I'm afraid we're going that way.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-04-0.u30661	I am warning MPs Dragisa Popovic and Zoran Ćirkovic, therefore, of any subsequent announcement to stick to the agenda topics as obligations under the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The minister explained the interest of a minor child mentioned by the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly in the presentations of Dragisa Popovic and in your presentation, you do not have the right to reply. I'll quote you what the minister said. He talked about what he said on the Committee on Education and talked about the protection of a minor. You do not have the right to reply, but has the MP Petar Petrovic, followed by the MP Anita Beretic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-04-0.u30662	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministry, before I take a few words to refer to the proposed law on education and the system of education, on behalf of the parliamentary group of the Serbian Unity Party, I cannot help but say just a few sentences about these reform laws that this National Assembly, of course with opposition to the opposition of the opposition and voting against, passed the bill, and the best shows the people of Serbia and the stomachs of workers and citizens of Serbia, how successful those reforms were, so I fear that, even after this reform law that you will adopt, the stomachs of educational workers are not more empty than they are now. So much for reforms and better life in Serbia after reform laws. As for the proposed law by the Ministry of Education and Sports, one procedural question is imposed on itself. This assembly ended in work Friday night. The business question is - is it possible at the time of the meeting to schedule a new session of the Assembly, to leave MPs less than five days of free time so that they can discuss this proposed law which we MPs received with the indication that they will be considered by emergency procedure, and just two days before we get a proposal of the agenda by the government came a memo, probably on purpose, to remove the word "emergency" in the bill and that the law will enter into the regular normal procedure. As we know, the bill arrived in the congregation on May 19th. If we want to talk about reform laws with a lot of understanding, that we can attack, defend, praise, etc., then it is normal to leave MPs for a little while, that they can consult people who are expert in this area. On my behalf and on behalf of the Serbian Unity Party, I say that when it comes to the Bar of Pomorava County and the Enlightenment in Pomorava County, i.e. the staff, teachers in Pomorava County, that they were very little familiar, or the minority was familiar with the bill and spoke for the majority. I can tell you that a large number of educators, or teachers who work in primary and secondary schools, express dissatisfaction with the proposed law. Gentlemen of the Ministry, the impression is that when you made this law, you spoke to the representatives of large cities, Belgrade, Nis, Novi Sad, Kragujevac and the like. I ask you on behalf of the Serbian Unity Party - have you consulted representatives of small communities, rural schools, in which there are one to five students from first to fourth grade and in letters. How will they fit into this reform of education, especially basic? I'm talking about basic education. How they will now be organised, if their proposal 3 + 3 + 3, i.e., that class classes, from the fourth to the sixth combined, subject and class classes, and in the seventh, eighth and ninth classes, are only taught. In these small environments, which have five-six students up to the fourth grade, they will organise this kind of teaching and whether these schools will be able to provide materially the teaching chamber, or you from the Ministry, that all students in Serbia, regardless of the number of residents in those places where primary schools exist, can be adequately represented, i.e. to present them in an adequate and professional manner the material that will serve them as the basis for high school. On the other hand, professional secondary schools will last for three years, as you suggest, and working professions will last for two years. My lords, do you know that even now these schools for real workers and the like, which last up to three years, give us personnel who literally have no idea of their knowledge when they get to work. Why don't you go back, like it was 15-20 years ago, and I belong to that generation when one day it went to school and one day it went to practice. There were schoolmasters coming out, who knew right after they finished school to get involved in the job. Will such a system of education be possible in two years, after nine years of primary schooling and two years of vocational education, these young people at 18 or 17 will be able to get involved in work and work adequately in jobs for which they are educated. I have to repeat just a few things and I wouldn't take the time, because other MPs from the Serbian Unity Party will discuss, to tell you that in article 90, you've predicted, gentlemen of the Ministry, that parents have the right to choose kindergarten and elementary school, where they're going to enroll their children. It is democracy to choose, but do we want to build elite schools where children of famous people in every city will strive to enroll in one school or their children to enroll in that kindergarten, to make elite kindergartens or preschools, elite elementary schools, and others where ordinary children will go? Is this a proposal, if it is given the right to choose, and now, as far as I know, it was by the principle of territorial connection, i.e. the housing of parents and children were mostly enrolled in schools located in those parts of the city or in those villages. I don't think that's good, and it won't give good results. A special paradox is in Articles 101 and 102 where you suggest that at least four times students have to be evaluated. Gentlemen, do you realize that in a class of 35 students, it is technically not feasible for each student to be properly examined and properly evaluated four times a year. It will happen, as is happening now, that the teacher comes along, dictates 10 questions, that some written exercise, and it comes to him as an evaluation. Whether the child got it or not, that's a special question. It should leave the teachers as they have, in some ways, free to judge. On the other hand, you predict that a student who has all the weak grades during the year can pass it at the end of the year. You, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministry, are bringing in an unequal position of such students who literally haven't done anything in a year, getting weak grades, compared to a student who's worked hard, earned some positive assessment which is numerically numbered with number 2, so that that student in any way, and I won't be talking about negative phenomena in education now, as well as in all segments of society, but has them in education and that we don't close our eyes that they're gone, that someone whose parent is a known political figure or currently in DOS power, has money, works abroad, to simply allow his child to fix 10 or 12 units. There's that now, you know it better than I do, but you're muttering and you won't admit it. So, it takes a rule that's been in place for 50 years in this country, that the class repeats itself with three, and eventually we move the border with four or five weak grades, but to allow the student to get 10 or 12 negative grades to be fixed in two or three days, that's funny, and I can still explain it on behalf of the Serbian Unity Party, and you're doing what you want. You'll get your grades off the field. Ladies and gentlemen, since we're talking about reforming education, why no member, or at least I haven't seen, you didn't mention in these basics sports and physical culture in primary and secondary schools. You are the Ministry of Education and Sports, and in no word have you mentioned sports and physical education to any member and how this will take place in primary and secondary schools, and we are talking about how our children are. More and more with the wrong spines, more and more with insufficient physical conditioning, etc. I think it was an obligation for you from the Ministry to at least mention something in part and be some obligation of organized and mandatory physical education, sports, etc. It's not enough to have ads on billboards - play for life, drugs not, and we're all aware that there's more drugs and alcohol in high and elementary schools. I think sport is the way to disable it or at least reduce it, as far as possible at this point. In the end, you're saying what the reasons for this law to enter into the procedure, the law on the foundations of the education and education system. You are talking about democracy, about greater democracy, decentralisation in schools, and in law you have immediately introduced provisions that prohibit the right to strike, or that institution you will simply shut down or shut down. Why do you do that when these strikes in primary and especially secondary schools, high and high, have allowed you to come to power. Now that you've come to power, no more strikes, it's forbidden, we're closing down institutions, etc. One basic right, the right to suspend work or strike, you forbid this law. Let me say at the very end that this law is not so unspeakable to everyone. He specifically asks firstly that the government immediately and urgently form seven centres and three councils as public institutions, which will be financed from the budget with an undefined number of permanent employees, as well as occasional expert teams that have the right to form. Their tasks are determined only by general formulas that are consisting of improving education. These new institutions and these new ministry officials seem to be the only reason you're rushing to pass the school reform law. I wonder when they spend money on all these new cabinets, computers, air conditioning, phones, televisions, cars, secretaries, drivers, logbooks, hotel bills and all that, will they even be threatening something to improve student classes and their teachers. For these reasons, the Serbian Unity Party cannot support the bill, because we believe it is not reformal.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-04-0.u30663	The word is a folk letter from Anita Beretic, followed by a folk letter from the Prophet of Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-04-0.u30664	The Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Ministers, the Honorable Gentlemen of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliaments, I would only like with a few sentences to touch the remarks that have been made so far on the bill that is under discussion today. Of course, not unless I want to start a controversy or a replica at all, but simply try to find some points that we're arguing about or what's the point of resisting criticism and the basic thesis that the proposed law is not good. The remarks concerning how and the duration of preparation, the time of adoption of the bill, I don't think they really stand. I am responsibly saying, as a person who is very close to the profession regulated by this bill. I think absolutely over a long period of time are really all the target groups of this law and this profession, and I don't know which social and social group that can't be the target group of this law. Public debate, expert debate, district presentations, schools, small, larger, in rural areas, simply in the last year and a half, the debate and presentation of the reform procedure, which was finally proposed by this law, is at least intensely ongoing. So, I just don't see the point being that the law came out of nowhere. You've heard the remark several times, at the very least, as if we were first faced with a proposal whose elements were absolutely never heard from before. Of course, the very moment through the Sunday definition that right now is not exactly the time to pass or adopt this law, so that it goes in fact with the first cycle of reforms, it's a little contradictory with not so many long ago requests, I think about a year or more that we've passed the previous, still valid law on elementary and high school, when one of the main, again, argument was time -- now it's already time (last year) to start with reforms. So, then we're already late and now we're early. There's a bit of a bad weather assessment done. As for the MPs and their participation and the possibility of affecting the final proposal of this law, there really is no basis for them to feel deprived and threatened. Responsibly, I am a member of the Committee on Education, the president is here, he will correct me, 20 and a few close to 30 sessions of the Education Committee has been held in this conference so far and, by my free judgment, at least a third of the sessions have been thematically related to what we now have in the text of the bill. There we had absolutely at all times an open clear, very tolerated, respectful communication between the representatives of Parliament, among the interested representatives of the profession who addressed Parliament, Mr Minister, Assistant Minister, Deputy and Expert Associates from the Ministry. It's just that it's been one long-term continuous dialogue on this subject. I would say that from a series of remarks it can be concluded, to say the least, without pretentiousness, and believe me, I now estimate through the ability of others to assess that many MPs, regardless of their profession and there are a lot of us here who are bound by our profession by pre-school, secondary and higher education without understanding the essence of this legislative proposal. His essence is expressed in his name. It's about the basics of the education and education system, and just what the system has been so far is put on the right feet, on the feet of the child. So this is the law that puts first the being that is the subject of dealing with this law. I would briefly remind you - in previous discussions and we haven't touched much or I haven't listened carefully enough, so just excuse me, we've touched the very goals that define this law, the goals of education and education. It is in them that the basic principle that this law pursues is the principle of depoliticalism that is very clearly read and, in the very objectives, we recognize precisely which being is the basic point of interest of this law. The objectives of bracing and training are to develop the intellectual capacities and skills of children and students necessary to understand the nature, society, self and world in which they live in accordance with their development needs, opportunities and interests; to promote and develop the physical and health skills of children and students; to train for work, further education and independent learning; to promote the principles of continuous training and principles of lifelong learning; to train for self-responsibility and responsible decision-making relating to their own development and future life; to develop awareness of state belonging and moral values of democracy and culture; to enable inclusion in European integration processes; to develop awareness of the importance, protection and protection of the environment and nature; to adopt, to understand and develop basic social and moral values of a democratic, human and tolerance society; to promote pluralism of values and to promote awareness of the rights of life; to promote and to ensure the integrity of human rights of children and to the security of the right of the right of the right and the right of the right of the right of the children and the right and the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the children and the children and the right of the right of the right of the right of the children and the children and the need and the right of the right of the right and the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the children and the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the children and the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right and the right of the right of the right of the right of the right and the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right and the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right and the right of the right of the right of the right of the right and the right of the right of the right of the right of the right and the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the children and the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of I'm sorry, but I really wanted to quote these 12 points from the third term, because I really think that these goals that stand in front of a child from six to 19 years are the goals that really, when we explain them, we can defend the basic thesis that this is primarily about a depolitical law, about a law that actually turns participants in the process, performers of works under the terms of the quote, teachers, teachers, teachers, professors, associates, to find within themselves, and to give of themselves maximum and to find in each individual what or some of what the goals are. Again, due to the essence of the law itself in general, there have been many objections that the teaching position is not treated enough, that these or those rights of employment are not regulated, that collective agreements are not defined, the obligation of the employer, etc., so again I just remind myself, that is not the essence of the education system. It's the part that regulates other laws that simply cover the area from working relationships. Therefore, the position of the institution in education education has already been treated by the applicable Labour Act or will be treated by some other laws that simply deal with working relationships. I don't see at all that in a system of education that is actually a new value system in general, there is a particular need to raise special dust. As for these convictions to be administered too much or to try to explain that the introduction of counsel and centres is actually making even more strict decentralisation, again I have to say I'm sorry because we didn't understand each other well again. I think that if you carefully read and understand the members who are treating the education of councils and centres first and the basic resulting is that they have a basic task of actually being logistic, reformistic, professional support to that system that this law establishes. So far, the education system has been like a UFO. We had the Ministry that passed the laws, which was prescribed by the regulations, and we have school institutions implementing a prescribed school programme that we all complain about at the same time, but no one in principle was involved in the system itself. So, the main role, if I understand this well, is that it continuously monitors, enriches, inovirs, harmonizes with European standards what attributes of a good education system are. In order not to over-repeat myself, I remind you that at the center of the interest of this law, at the center of the Ministry's interest, of the MPs, of all the people of the profession who are in one way or another related to an educational institution is the child, the student whom, in one way or another, and when necessary, all of them swore to him by adhesions was exploited, this law was indeed brought to their proper place. That one teacher will have to deal with them, so there's one or two or 35 of them. It will be arranged in time, during the process. Since this law first respects the personality of a child, it is freed from the balasty of unnecessary facts and wants to make and create a creative creator, I, the MPs of the DS and the MPs of the DOS will support this law. Please, look more, we'll probably talk for a few days. I think there's really enough elements and enough of those touch points where our interests match.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-04-0.u30665	The word has a folk emissary of the Faith of the Rade.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-04-0.u30666	Ladies and gentlemen, the quality of this proposal is best discussed by the number of amendments submitted and the fact that out of the 12 members of the Committee, who were at the vote, seven voted in favour and five singled out their opinions. When you adopt this law, be sure, not that you will not reform the system of education, but you will completely degrade and destroy everything that has been good in the current system of education. We in the SRS will, explaining the amendments we have submitted, talk about the lack of the law individually, and I am going to talk about a few things that Mr. Minister has said today after this pay phone, and especially what I heard on Sunday on "Not Spruce Shut Up". I think it would be better, Mr. Minister, if you'd kept your mouth shut. First, today you said you never mentioned that one of the countries you looked up to in making this text of America, and on Sunday you said that you were sorry that we were not yet in a situation to learn as Americans, by notes, because we are still using textbooks, and you also said, which shocked me, that you gave one NGO to do textbooks. Two days later, I saw Soroš on TV, with significant personalities in this country, and I would understand who would be doing our textbooks for future generations. As far as your remarks regarding decentralisation are concerned, we in the SRS program are for decentralisation, not only in education, but usually, but not in the way you suggested here. Decentralisation can only refer to a network of schools, and not to the adoption of programmes and to leaving local units at will that they bring programmes according to their needs or thoughts. Mr. Minister, you said on Sunday that there wouldn't be a classic schedule of classes, that there was no classic lecture, no classic grading. I wonder if there's going to be any education at all, if there's going to be any schools, if there's going to be kids playing? Good thing they're doing it in preschool, but from what you said, they're gonna do it until they get to college, they're probably gonna call it what they're going to study later. You also said that you betrayed or betrayed, I didn't remember it well, some grading manual, because my God, it's never been in our house before. Well, I went to school and you went to school, I guess they graded us on some criteria or you don't recognize all those grades and all those diplomas. Then, first of all, think of both yours and mine and all the other diplomas that have won in previous times. You also said, which was interesting to me, that now the students will love school. Mr. Minister, didn't you like school when you went to school? Don't our children like wolves, those who win awards in the municipal, city, republican contest? Does someone make them do it? They're kids who love school and they'll love it even under this law of yours. You were talking about depoliticization today, and Sunday as well. It's not quite clear to me how you think they're doing the depolitanization. I think the journalist asked you on Sunday that there were objections that these councils should be elected by the Parliament, not by the Government, and you said no, it should be the Government, because if we transfer it to the Assembly, then it is politicized, but the government has a majority in the Assembly anyway. Well, then what's depolitical about it? You may have thought of these licences, and that's a lot of MPs who spoke before me said so. You've probably been thinking about this particular lustration that you're going to carry out on teachers. There's something else you haven't said, Mr. Minister, and it's about your idea in a public debate about this law, that the Serbian language, however, is not built in here, and I'm going to say why, it's called the language of communication. On Sunday, you replied to the journalist that you only thought it was one of the means of communication, and the means of communication is the phone, the Internet, the letter, etc. You sent Mr. Vigor Majic, your assistant to Arangelovac for one counselling, and there he expressed your position to call the Serbian language a language of communication. There was Mr. Vigor Majic, a graduate of the educators, and everyone who reported to talk about the proposal, i.e. to oppose the proposal, began and ended with the verse of Đura Jaksic -- "The country is this Serbian".
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-04-0.u30667	The word has a minister in the government of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Gašo Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-04-0.u30668	He's just doing the factography. Vigora Majic was once a deputy. He hasn't been a deputy in a long time, and I couldn't send him anywhere. So let's not mix things up, and besides, it's quite clear on the show. Ma'am, I'll try to get you a tape, if you're interested, to listen again.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-04-0.u30669	The word has the People's MP Đura Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-04-0.u30670	The Honorable Presidency, colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, on such an important system law, I think we should set aside a little more time for discussion, not just five hours for discussion in principle. But what is it, it's here. I'll try to make some suggestions and some objections about this proposed text of the law. I'd like to say before that. When I was with my colleague, Bor Stanimirovic, at your office for an interview, to inform us about the draft of this law, I expected, after your argument and your associates, a good law. I even asked that in the desire to reform the system, there be no repeated errors in the Shuvar Law, so-called. Scumbags, who ruined tens and more generations of students. You promised then that it would be nothing, that there would be no talk of repeating it. To tell you the truth, I was delighted with that claim of yours. However, when the law arrived, when I looked at it, some colleagues and colleagues said that we should read the title of the law carefully. I can read and understand what's written. The law reads: "Proposal of a law on the basic system of education and education". However, according to the content inside, it could rather be said that this is a law on breaking Serbia's education and education system. In my opinion, this law is a Honglomary of provisions for the intellectual and national killing of Serbia. Why am I saying this? It may be hard words, but I'm saying, because you've thrown out a provision for secondary education to be free of charge. You plotted that only primary education is free, and the middle turns out to be paid. Under this law, children will be able to school, only those parents who have money, and those who don't, what is it? Secondly, you've introduced the possibility that even with more weak grades, children don't repeat classes, so it turns out that they can go on with these deadlines forever and so on. It's not right. That's why I said that sentence. Secondly, Article 4 states that everyone has the right to education and education and that basic education is mandatory and free of charge. This clearly states in Article 4. However, Article 32 provides for the possibility of forming educational educational institutions and natural persons. I wonder if those founders will organize free elementary education. I don't think so. Especially as it allows foreigners to open schools. Article 7(3) provides for the implementation of educational-experienced work in both foreign language and foreign language. I wonder if this is the beginning of suppressing Serbian language from schools in Serbia. Article 10 provides for the formation of three councils. First and second advice okay. Since I'm a man of education, I know it's necessary and that these advices should work, but what makes this third one that says, "A council for harmonising attitudes in education." This reminds me of the Law on Joint Labour when the working communities lived from the work of a joint work organisation. Why is that? Article 11 provides for the formation of various working bodies and commissions. If we add to this the provisions of Article 18, which forms seven centers with its organisational units, even 12, a huge administrative apparatus is created, and everything is financed from the budget. And now we all know that the budget is deficited, and what will become of the new administration. The illustrations for how much this will cost, it's enough to look at the data on the farthest side of the bill. I calculated that only from September 1st of this year to the end of this year, in four months, it would take for a new administration, which is foreseen by this law to single out as many as 369 million 18.254 dinars. So it's only for four months. And in a year, that would have passed a billion dinars. It's not a small amount of funding for a new administrative apparatus, I think it's too high. I ask the question of where these funds are being provided. It stands in the bill of law, from the World Bank's loan, as well as from donations. How many people credit for a new unnecessary administration? Who's gonna pay those loans back? Do you ever wonder? The law also provides for as many as 4,000 mentors in these administrative bodies. I would especially like to emphasise the unconstitutional article 39. A bill that provides for a ban on the work of an institution. In paragraph 1, a strike ban is provided for and in paragraph 2. The Ministry forbids work. These provisions are not only contrary to the Constitution, but also to European conventions. I think it's a skillfully studied provision to ban the suspension of the work of educators. That doesn't make sense. In Article 41, there are provisions under which the testimonies that students receive in schools of foreign founders must be nostificated. I think it's absurd that children in their own country have to nostifify their testimony. What is particularly noticed is that there are no curricula and programmes and that the ratio of general and special programme is very unfavourable and brings us back to the time of Shuvarica. The special absurd provision of Article 69, which provides that even in preschool, a special programme must be approved by an appropriate international association. It is not said whether it is Soros or anyone else, but it stands for an appropriate international solution. I have to cut the discussion short because of my colleagues. I'd like to mention the 101st and 102nd terms of evaluation. We're returning Shuwar's evaluation system again. Description assessments. And that's when those grades were funny. We called them vitamin A, B, and C. Why? I've got a lot to talk about, but I wouldn't talk about my colleagues. I'm thanking you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-04-0.u30671	The word is made by Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Gašo Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-04-0.u30672	Please, the truth works, just a few details. Actually, I'm going to give three, and I'm going to end up with one brief conclusion. Free high school, check out article 84, that's where it says it. Let's not lie here right now. I don't know what that's about. Second, the 1992 Law, I didn't bring it, it's someone else, and I'm afraid it's you. A foreign language in schools, i.e. a foreign language education programme, was introduced in 1992. We haven't invented anything new. We've rewritten the 1992 solution. You brought it. The Serbian Unity Party, or Mr. Petar Petrovic, says "You are now closing schools for strike". I don't know if it's the lack of information. We adopted the amendment of the Serbian Unity Party. We've adopted an amendment saying "a strike that is illegal". So let's not talk about closing schools because of strikes and endangering workers' rights. Third, the wrong information about the new administration is wrong. I'm not getting into that. I'll just tell you something. Only expensive school, it's a bad school. All the other schools aren't expensive.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-04-0.u30673	The word is made by MP Milan Radulovic, and then by MP Pal Shandor.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-04-0.u30674	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Parliament, I apologize to each individual, and especially the president of the National Assembly, for in this morning's discussion I violated the parliamentary discipline prescribed by the Rules of Procedure. I'm sorry it happened.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-04-0.u30675	On behalf of the National Assembly, I sincerely thank you for setting an example of how the MP is treated when it comes to respect and only respect for this institution. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-04-0.u30676	This morning, in the afternoon's debate, MPs of the Democratic Party of Serbia, as well as other parliamentary groups, proved that the law did not go through a public debate. I would, since I didn't have time to develop that thesis this morning, start with that. The law was supposed to have its own predication, and after that predicate we would get the bill, simply because we would now have far less misunderstandings than we have. Let's just say that the members of the Education Committee learned something more detailed about the law two weeks ago, but most of the public, the general public, knows nothing about this law. The public, the educational public knows that the Ministry of Education is conducting a reform, that it is passing a new law, also knows that reform, or some changes in the education system, is necessary, but in which direction these changes will be made, on which they will be placed, this is to this day for the widest public of total unknowns. The widest public as I said this morning had to be involved in the adoption of such a law, because this law, which exceeds its own importance, exceeds the importance of a government and a congregation, has overcome even the importance of a political system as such. This is a law that determines for us some civilization pathways that will move our future generations. Let's say that there were consultations, then people in kindergartens would know that from now on kindergartens are not a social protection system, but an educational and educational system. Education and education starts sooner than it's ever been before. Preschool, what so far has been preschool education either, becomes mandatory. The children begin to go to school a little earlier, so from a child from five years to a young man to 19 years of age, we have one educational system and the state is trying to raise that generation in a certain spirit, ranging from five to 19 years. Whether it was natural for people to know in what spirit we predict that our young generations will be brought up, on which grounds they will be brought up, on which examples they will also be modeled, raised, idealized by this educational system that is so extensive, lasts some 14 to 15 years, which will have moral and national and cultural and social ideals to design this system and raise children in the spirit of these ideals. It is important because the educational system must be unique in one country, because what the citizens of a country without difference in religion, nation, political, ideological, social and commitment connects exactly the civilization and cultural verticals that are achieved through the process of education. Also, if the Ministry had organised a little wider public debate, then we would hear from the people of local self-government what they think about the proposal that from now on from the budget of local self-government to finance the strategic training of employees, as they will say, teachers, that capital buildings, buildings are being built, that they are being designed and that they will finance school equipment. Perhaps if there had been some public debate on this plan, we might have been able to avoid a danger contained in such a solution. In fact, we've had a situation so far that schools aren't equipped in the same way, that they're not quality, simply, the school space isn't on the same standard, they're not the same conditions of education, and now, I'm afraid, we're going to increase these differences even more. We will have local self-government that will understand the importance of the school system and local self-government that will treat it as a cost. Developed environments will treat it as investment in development, and poor environments will treat it as expenditure and will see to it to save. Thus, a teacher in an undeveloped municipality and a developed municipality will not have the same conditions for professional training, nor will children have the same learning conditions because not every school will be equipped with the same equipment. Naturally, it seems to me, whether the schooling standards are uniform or that they are at least trying to make as many schooling conditions equal, whatever the middle child comes from. Simply for the fact that both in underdeveloped municipalities and in developed municipalities, you have people, or children who are talented and who have to get the same opportunities to develop their intellectual capacity, or potential. If it were the same, I think it was necessary in these discussions that, hand to heart, we must admit that, led in schools, we should perhaps pay attention to these situations between mandatory subjects, i.e. mandatory and joint jobs for all schools and colleges. This distance ranges from 90% of the mandatory content in the first base, to, say, just 30% for the craft profiles of two years. I understand that the Ministry wanted to say this way, we have common ground, we need to introduce college classes, so now let local self-government, depending on what the economy, what educational profile it needs, adjusts its program, and simply train children to go to work immediately. But there are two dangers here. The first is the danger that with such a small percentage of the joint program, the school system may not yet be unique. I'm afraid with this kind of dynamicization of the system that he's bred, he's really grown up right now, and the educational profiles are quite outdated, that by bringing dynamics and arbitraryness into this area, that it can come to the chaos of that system, not to mention breaking it. Maybe people in practice, maybe people could come up with some smart idea to remove such a danger in this law. Also, this law, when we used those members, did not remove the danger that those 5% of the students, whom the minister spoke of this morning, who are the top capacities, which can be experts, not only in our country, but in any other country, would have their own programme, that they would be protected, that the current very ambitious programme, if viewed at the level of the average, would be preserved for the gifts, and that the programmes themselves would be adapted to the levels of student abilities. Surely, some solutions would be found to remove these problems and these real dangers that exist in this law, which, of course, will be regulated by a special law. Since this is the basic law, the basic law must make all these ambiguities and all these dangers, all these underwater mines that threaten to explode in the application of the law, predict how it will disarm them, or make their fact impossible. In the end, I just wanted to say one more thing about the status of teachers as foreseen by this law. This law really changes the status of teachers, in my gut, better. The status of employees is better, but in one member, and there is a whole member and chapter called - the autonomy of the institution, when certain professional autonomy is guaranteed. It's a better status if when you're in the profession someone guarantees you, whether the Ministry guarantees you local self-government, that you'll have a chance to perfect yourself in the profession and that this training will be paid for. It's good when someone, if you're employed, guarantees that your training will be valorized by getting some pedagogical calling, along with calling and a higher salary. But there's a little bit of uncertainty left here, too. Teachers have one general remark that the training that has been done so far is one-sided, that the method and doctrine that is demonstrated to them, that in a cultural and pedagogical sense, is monastic. If students have opportunities and if students have the right to choose areas they will study, it would be natural for the law to predict that the key impact on teacher training programmes will be on teachers themselves. The best way for each teacher to know which area he is missing from and what would be useful to him for his practice to perfect. The competition of these accredited programmes must be guaranteed by law and the Ministry must be limited by law, that it will not favour one type of programme at the expense of others. All of these were some misunderstandings, namely the two-strength sword that was laid down in this law, which could be overcome whether in time a public debate was conducted, whether the position of the Democratic Party of Serbia was accepted, that it was necessary to form one national body of top experts from the field of profession, from the field of culture, environmentalism, and of course from religious communities. So, one body top-notchly competent, which will solve all these doubts and deal with development planning, the development strategy. I am afraid that the Ministry has transferred a lot of competence to expert councils and centres, and that in Article 28 it has narrowed down or significantly narrowed down its current powers, that many processes, many very important professional decisions, made by the minister, have been left in the members themselves within the law. Our proposal was for the minister to act as president of the National Council, and that the National Council, which would have chosen the Assembly, discuss the strategy well from now on, and the Ministry to monitor how the law is applied, which problems arise and that it simply gives information to the National Council. What is a strategy in this extremely important area, in an area where it must not be and cannot be the difference between political parties, in an area where there is no difference in religion and nations and ideologies, that in this superior area of social organization we have one body that will take responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-04-0.u30677	The word has a minister in the government of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Gašo Knezevic, and a National MP, Pal Shandor.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-04-0.u30678	I'll be brief. I'm asking to be well understood, and I'm asking you first of all, Professor. When we have one of these quality discussions, which we've heard now, then I need to say that you and I can differ in a thousand things, but that there's something we share, and that's a concern for the future of the rejuvenation. I don't know if this public recognition will get into your positive or negative side, but it's said. As for your public discussion, first of all, I want to tell you that there was a book of quality education for everything for a year and a few days and there were public discussions about it. I also wanted to ask you, Professor, what is a public and what is an expert discussion? Where does one start, where does the other end? It's always my dilemma and it'll still be my dilemma. The ministry law has been transposed into the authority of education for preschool education. So, we didn't do anything now. We simply passed the law, that is, in our law put away something that had been done long before by the Ministry Act. That's not news. There's something else I want to tell you. In funding, unfortunately for me, things haven't changed. So that remark of yours -- whether a developed or undeveloped municipality -- is standing, but it stands exactly the same as it used to be. There were no changes. Just to let this assembly know that I've been in this room meeting with all the presidents of the municipalities and everyone in charge of the education that we've been talking about funding schools. For that meeting, I prepared a review of the implementation of the municipalities' obligations towards schools and so as not to denunciate some who were very bad, in a very small percentage of funding, I kept quiet. I only told them the indicative data. Professor, you'll be surprised by the very highly developed municipalities, the smaller percentages stand out for education than some less developed municipalities. It's a fake and we live with it. One big operation at the level of funding education is ahead of us. The transition to a new way of funding is coming to us. So here at this point we haven't worked very hard. As for what you called "monolytism" or something, teachers now have a course catalogue. They can choose, they can opt for those courses. So, for the first time, order was introduced into a system that had previously been chaotic and precisely known which is accredited by the ministry. I can't answer for all the seminars that someone organizes in this country, if someone called UNESCO and UNICEF, etc. If they don't have the Ministry's accreditation, it's not our national program. Ours is the one we accept. Something that one of your predecessors started, but I'll continue with him, since you mentioned it, it's a two-year trade, or those who prepare directly for work and 30%. First, I want to inform you that for the first time in a two-year trade, according to this new concept, will enter the system in 2007. Until then, we'll have a special program, a special basis, to regulate all these subjects, general education, so we'll have that on the whole territory of the country. And those 70% were left for our wish, to be exactly the way the predecessor used to say, when he was educated 20 years ago, the craftsmen came out. Our goal is to really get masters out of the trade after 2007, because now we're in a vacuum space when we're not learning the masters themselves. Thank you for the discussion.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-04-0.u30679	The People's Messenger Pal Shandor has the word, followed by the People's Messenger Milos Lukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-04-0.u30680	Dear colleagues, respected ministers, respected Mrs. Komic, you saw from a discussion that was just developing, so that you would have to warn Mrs. Micic that in an inappropriate way the MPs, in the case of Mr. Radulovic, when the fifth minute passes, cannot finish the sentence. ...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-04-0.u30681	People's MP, I ask you to return to the topic and use congregation mechanisms if you have objections in the way of holding a session. Please respect the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-04-0.u30682	Now I'm going to tell you what I think. I must say, in the absence of time, I have consulted several of my colleagues and I have large reserves in relation to this bill. I'll try to formulate it in two. One thing is that there are general remarks, and the other is what by the nature of things, given the party whose president and minority we belong to, refers to members of national minorities, so you're going to let me say what I think, in general, about some of my opinions and opinions of my colleagues, is not good, and something in terms of minorities is not good. I think this law has done unnecessary fragmenting of the school system, a fragmentation that can be justified in various ways, there are arguments for and against, but it is not justified. The fragmentation is seen in this: 3 + 3 + 3 + 2 + 3 + 4. What I understand about the school system is and what we, I think in Central Europe, were famous for is a good general education with guidance in later years. That means this. I'm told by colleagues who know the American system a little bit better, that their education system isn't good, and that's why they make colleges. And we have a good system of education basically, which with little general knowledge, with a little real orientation of a few years achieves a better qualification and better results than that system. Why tear down what's good? So, we, by all means, I mean, we should have reformed above all content, not form. If the curricula and the programmes are overloaded, let's change the curricula and the programmes. Let's make it more appropriate, that it comes down to the fact that as little memory as possible of tasks and that children focus on solving problems. I agree with that, but this system of education, so with an eight-grade primary school and a four-grade high school, it's something that has proved to be best for us in all these 50 years in our system. With many specialist professions, a small state, with a small population, can't produce good results. We're going to get into a situation like when we had in Shuvar that one was preparing the top of the shoe, the other was preparing the bottom part of the shoe, the third was preparing the heel, and no one knew how to make the shoe. So what I think is that even these three-year-old schools could be extended to four-year-old schools in order to achieve as much practice as possible. That would be some time and some logic as to how we could reform what we're trying to do right now. Secondly, which is a great reserve for me, there is no necessary social consensus for changes in the field of education. All transition societies must achieve some qualified majority of the social consensus on the need to change something in an area. We, by the power of God, can vote this law here, but there will again come another constitution of power, some other relationship of political power that will change that. The transition society would have to find, regardless of party definitions, the smallest common denominator around basic strategic matters. We're arguing here, and there's no such thing as the least common multiple between us. I wouldn't, by the power of God, crash and reform what might not have to be reformed. Secondly, I think this is how an unnecessary final exam in elementary school is foreseen here. Because the criteria of the final exam on success from school to school, from middle to middle, depending on the quality of teachers, will be different. It's much better to do what we have right now, an exam equal for everyone. I don't think we should just introduce him, that they'd better take the entrance exam. The next thing you know about land and buildings, it's said to be state property. It's not that simple, because those buildings took that law from us 10 years ago, that it's all owned by the Republic, but in my village, we built the school with a fleshy self-delivery and I own a seven thousandth of that school there. It's going to be state property again. It's not right because school buildings are once nationalized, confiscated, belong to religious communities, etc. It can't be state property. It could be what the state gave the money for. According to that system before that, the state didn't give out of self-indulgence. It can be legally explained and not slowed down, but for my school in my country village, she didn't give a single dinar and how to be a state school now. I just can't accept it. Secondly, what's the biggest shortage of this is that there's a whole series of laws that would more precisely determine what happens next with the school system. We have a frame for the painting now, and we don't know what the picture looks like. I'd like to know what the picture looks like, whether it's more blue, green, red or some other color. I'd like it in this set, when we're passing this framework law, and I wouldn't say it's basic, nor that it's roofing, that there are no thousand formulations. It'll be settled by some special law, because then I really don't know what I'm voting for. I vote for a cat in a sack, because I don't know what, say, the law on the rights of education of national minorities will look like. I really don't know what that's gonna look like. On the other hand, I think one more thing, and that's what the government and the international convention make us do, would be a good solution, and that's at least in the words of the textbooks and the particular problem of the textbooks from the country of origin. Someone was talking about how the textbooks aren't good, I mean Mrs. Pop-Lazic. Yes, Mrs Pop-Lazic, they are not good from the aspect of what is Serbia's national identity, but imagine when Hungarians learn from textbooks that say "about" - we are famous and came in the sixth century to the Balkans. But when? We're not famous, Mircic, that's the problem. Therefore, that is the essence of the problem. I think it should be said that for members of national minorities, textbooks are written in their language. It's something else from a translation textbook. It's really something that's very important. I really cannot agree with what it says in Article 7(2) that educational and probationary work is done in Serbian, and then it is said that for members of the national minorities educational and probationary work is achieved also in the mother tongue, according to a special law. On the contrary, it is entirely the Law on the Rights of National Minorities, where there is no "and", but guaranteed, it is the norm, the right to education in the native language, and it can be extremely possible in the Serbian language. I do not, of course, dispute here the right and the need, and it says in international conventions, that Hungarians and members of other minorities are good, good and effective learn Serbian, but they must be guaranteed the right to education in their native language, and in exceptional cases, the law can prescribe what are exceptional cases, when it cannot be realised, to consume fully, then teaching can take place in another language. If such a formulation remains, then the school directors will not bother to provide for members, they will not have a legal obligation to provide teaching in the native language for minority members and I would ask you to accept that amendment, but will go through the least resistance line and teaching will take place in another language. God forbid, for members of the Hungarians in Kovacica, he can do it in Slovak, since it's the middle. I think that this solution is extremely good, and I think that we should do as I formulate, provide teaching in the native language, and it can be extremely good in Serbian, and the rule is that teaching is done in Serbian for everything, and that's probably logical, that these students will also learn Serbian in elementary school. Just to remind you here, if I convinced you, of some other international conventions and international documents. For example, the International Convention on the Elimination of all forms of racial discrimination from 1965, Article 4(3) says "they have the right to teaching in the native language". Then, the KEBS from Geneva in Chapter 4, I do not know which one is the bottom line, but it is said that they have the right to education in the native language or Council of Europe, recommendation 1201, Article 8 of Item 1 - Any person belonging to the national minority has the right to be educated in their native language in an appropriate number of schools. Now we have come up with another problem, which the law should also formulate, which is that the number of students enrolled in minority languages in high school, means available capacities, must be approximated to how many of these students finish primary school in their native language. You now have a case of those who finish primary school in Serbian, 98% are enrolled further in their native language, and in the case of the Hungarian minority, that's only about 50%. Of course, then we would have to say further in the law that this competition must be such that it really attracts those who want to enroll in the native language and not to call a competition for some professions that are unattractive and unattractive and in the environments where it cannot be realized. For example, Daca Markovic worked by opening two schools at the Hungarian school in Kovin. Well, the Hungarians in Kovin can't fill it, and then he says, "Here's the Hungarians we've given so many percent, so many places, and they don't want to go to school in Hungarian." Therefore, schools, the launch of competitions with attractive professions should be where there is material for it, not in the environments where it simply cannot be realized. I've also submitted a whole series of other amendments, especially about the textbooks from the country of origin, because nothing is disputed. We're in for a spiritualization of the borders. Tomorrow we'll be less--more all in... Okay, well, foreign states (repeated to the Minister whose comment has not been heard). Well, okay, but you see, if I can go to Hungary, I now know that there are one six teachers who teach as Yugoslav or let's say Serbian-Montenegrin citizens in Hungarian schools, why for missing courses from Hungary, at the approval of the Ministry could not come a properly qualified piece. Therefore, it is all logical and it is possible to fully edit and please it is all logical and possible and completely possible to edit. And I'm asking you not for foreign schools but for those, and maybe even financial assistance from the home state can be achieved. Therefore, the law would have to tell the bar of the hints, although I do know that you will say that this will be resolved by a special law, but he would have to say these things - what minority members can generally expect as their right. Of course, I don't think they have more rights than members of other Southern Slavs but they have to be, in some ways, let's say protected, let's say even positively discriminated, but their perspective in this process must be clear and must be guaranteed. If that fragment also affects the members of the national minorities in this way as foreseen here, I'm afraid the results will be bad. So I would really point you to it, and it's not a question of vanity right now, that the entire Ministry of Affairs of National Minorities, that the whole Council of Europe, that I don't know who, so he didn't see this bothering you, so there's Pal Shandor thought of it, smart enough to see that it bothers you, but I'm simply pointing you to that being the only logical thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-04-0.u30683	The MP Gordana Pop-Lazic has the right to reply.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-04-0.u30684	Mr. Shandor didn't understand me very well, nor did Mr. Minister when he responded to my line in the afternoon part of the session. We absolutely don't mind, and I think it is now so that members of the national minorities are educated and educated in their native language. We're against foreign programs being educated here. So, according to the textbooks that would come from abroad. And apro for what you said about our Serbian personnel going to Hungary so that they could teach as a teacher, that's the necessity because in Hungary there is only one high school in Pest in Serbian and can't have Serbs studying at university. And here in Serbia, Hungarians also have an economic college in the Hungarian language in Subotica and have a teaching college where they can study in Hungarian and teach when they can normally be educated. That's the problem. Although, I have to admit, there's not so much to potentiate this problem because there's really no problem with us. I had a chance to be a guest of a high school in Dimitrov City. You know the structure of the population in Dimitrovgrad. The students always declare themselves in which language they want to study high school and no single student in the past ten years has declared himself willing to attend school in Bulgarian. It's something he says in favor, it's not assimilation, it's not even violent assimilation, they simply realized that if they want a pass-by at colleges or want a job they have to master well in Serbian and learn Serbian. But, of course, I say national minorities absolutely should, I said so, and if you don't understand me well here I repeat, that they are educated by choice and in native language. It's not a dispute, but to come to us textbooks from any other country it's unacceptable for us.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-04-0.u30685	The word has a minister in the government of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-04-0.u30686	We now have two measures of attack on the Ministry. One attack that is mondialysm, and the other is nationalism, so we're probably somewhere in the middle, which may not be so bad. Here, like this, Mr. Pal Shandor, we've got your amendment and everything's fine. It's our fault we overlooked, so there's no problem at all. Bring out that amendment and I'll accept it here and it'll go away. As far as these principles are concerned, if we need to talk, I think you've got the reform setup wrong. There's no fragmenting. As far as the cycles are concerned, there are no fragments. It's all one thread, but since then -- then, it's a matter of discussion. And, finally, the percentage of students enrolled in the high school n mother tongue now we have, and you probably know that, since you're in education, involved in education, we now have an expression of desire. Members of the Hungarian national minority if they write this now we can make a network of schools and it will not be a problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-04-0.u30687	The word comes from MP Vladimir Garčević, authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group, second announcement, then MP Milos So SNS, I apologize to the MP on the lapus and the pronunciation of the SPS, he's SNS. [[growls]] Here you go, MP. I ask the National Assembly to listen to the MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-04-0.u30688	Honorable representatives of the ministry headed by the minister, I would take the opportunity to point out something I'm not in the afternoon's presentation, i.e. to the failures in this law. First, it is said that it is going to nine years of primary education and we should believe that this education will have the appropriate content and that we give the limit in advance that this is the case. In the previous conversation, I asked you to look at it because it would be good and for the overall examination of basic education to give us the number of hours to study, i.e. which are the items with which the number of hours during nine years of schooling. Here, for example, I took a Swedish system where you have a defined number of hours. I hear you're gonna combine some items, introduce new names and stuff. Well, if we took the Serbian language, you'd be studying with 1,500 hours, natural objects, mathematics, physics with 800 hours, i.e. Math with 900 etc. This part would give us a guarantee that we can now, when that part of the basic education law is passed, see what your goal was. What was the goal of your reform, which is that there is no danger of being told in public that the people who made the programmes have spent a lot of time abroad, and that one of the financiers was Soros. This is a guarantee, when you offer the items, the number of hours and classes they study, the primary school could do it. About the discussions and the public's information about schools -- no school authority has considered the education strategy on professional bodies. I warned you that you co-ordinates provide us with this. So, educational workers who participated in commissions or educational workers who participated in the center of the sava, are not informed of what education reform is. Except if you don't count on the shows on TV. I think it's pragmentary and it's not complete intelligence. Furthermore, it is said to be going to democratisation. Is democratisation if the Serbian government sets all the tips? There's no talk of democratisation. For not taking positive examples from other views of other countries, where the expert council says representatives of the Chamber of Commerce, representatives of the union, representatives of the employees. Who's to guarantee you'll fill all this out? What does the ministry, or the government of Serbia, oblige to do so? I'll tell you, the least people on the expert council should be tied to the ministry. We don't have it written anywhere. That you wrote that so many people on the team, so many on the team. I'm talking about the professional work. When it comes to that advice at all, then in this situation it was necessary to regulate what structures are, where is the place of the Orthodox Church, where is the place of the Academy of Science, where is the place of the institute, etc? We've been bitching about politicizing in education. I'm afraid we're not doing anything about it. Anything that isn't written is possible at a certain point to be misused. We're people like that. Furthermore, you rejected the amendments and bothered to introduce the term parliament in schools. One logical amendment, approach, something that is traditional in education, you had no hearing, did because of the opposition's submission. If you can say this in Slovenia: "Students, or students, can organize a community of students. The community works at school or department level. Together, the Board of Directors" etc. Did it bother you to admit that we filed one request, one amendment? Why did you run away from it? We want all parliament. Let it go, let's leave something that is our tradition. I'm talking about the tradition of school, which has nothing to do with politics. Our tradition of education is a community of students, it is a school community of students, and we do not have to deal with certain terms with it, that it is a parliament. Furthermore, in the education system, you said this morning that it was Social Democracy, I know a colleague, Milojevic, who sat there and asked for the union's presence. You have rejected my amendments where I asked for unions to be classified as a kind of agreement between the ministry, which is also the protection of workers. The unions can't get in the way. They could also help monitor the protection and interest of workers. About the strikes -- it's a good thing this amendment was adopted, but it shouldn't have been offered. Who is it that wants to defend the protection of the profession? If he can't use other means, he'll have to go out on the streets, if he has to. Let's go back, you've been leading the strike of educators for years and destroying generations. If you've done that, now the strike needs to be thrown out at once. Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The strike is an integral part and the right of workers to be legalized. About students, endings, etc. What about the elementary school student who doesn't graduate? We didn't say anywhere, maybe you have an idea solution in your head, and I didn't see it, and I'm sorry I didn't ask a question there -- what about it, where this student is going, what's his option? I've seen in the regulations of other countries that are, but in our part, I think we just need to supplement that. Next, around the repeater and not the repeater. People who worked in education know everything they've been through and what's wrong. Respect the little experience of people who are in education. The correctional exams also moved with four weak ones. That was the upper limit. It turns out it's not good and it's been abolished by amendments to the law. It is not known anywhere that this model that a student with 10, 11 subjects is passing a correctional exam or passing classes, not to say correctional exams. Next, round the lay. And that's where we argued. I suggested in the amendment that the term of August is to pass the student correction exams that are not the final class. I explained very well that the time is short, because the school year ends on June 20th and there's no reason for her to go to the correctional exam then. And you refused. I don't think it's good in that setting to approach, whether or not I'm in this party, whether this concept is the most. These were practical questions that really had nothing to do with it. We can differ, Minister, in concept, about nine or about a number of years, but when it comes to the union, when it comes to education, when it comes to the students, the protection of rights, when it comes to ending the school year, who ends it, etc., I don't think there's a reason and that you could have these amendments, which would show you respect the experience, regardless of the political commitment. (President: 10 minutes. I think it's a little goodwill. I appeal to you, no matter what was on the board, that once again, when amendments are considered, you look at what's really technical, but also one part that doesn't harm the law, which doesn't disturb the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-04-0.u30689	The word has a folk MP Milos Lukic. He's not present. ) The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic, followed by the People's MP Golub Rajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-04-0.u30690	On the agenda is another one in a series of draft laws of the Government of the Republic of Serbia which can be described in a few words: undetermined law, imprecise law, poor law, a law based on responsibilities, irresponsibility and promoting irresponsibility. This conclusion can be reached if one flash analysis is made, a legal-technical analysis of the provision of this law. Then it will be seen that every member, every norm, has catastrophic holes, failures that make this law practically not applicable unless there is a force, a rule of law, and above the government, which guarantees the enforceability of this law. That's why the term of a few is used, the achievement of the outcome, probably very few who can understand what that means. I am under the impression that something that Minister Gašo Knezevic promised us on 27 December 2002 is in action. That's the famous line he'll be known for, that he's applied a bill that hasn't been passed yet, but it's being applied. Since the Law School couldn't finish the job for two months, then Gasha mustered up his courage and cut it by official supervision and that's the same logic as we're being offered this bill. This bill does not promote a new system, this bill promotes the revolutionary will that arises by obtaining in certain provisions a capillary system of council centres and other institutions from local self-government to that republican level that is being asked. They're advisory bodies, they give some opinions, but still she's the last one to stay with the minister. If it's a form of centralization, it's the wrong form of centralization. I am a supporter of centralization, especially in the field of education and education, of what we call schooling, for one simple reason why the state has an obligation to ensure on all its territory on equal terms the same rights, which is the availability of knowledge and the obligation to acquire that knowledge. This bill does not provide a system. It doesn't give the stimulant, it gives a set of norms and it's full of holes, and that's one fog that means that it needs to destroy what's existing, and that's that value. In doing so, there should also be an innate aversion of Mr. Gaše Knezevic to everything that is national. You have in that book a year ago, from 180 pages where we wrote off all the works and crimes of Mr. Gaš Knezevic when we asked for his permission. That's when we announced a law like this. One law that will undo this space, in that our children will no longer receive what they are recognized for when they go abroad, and that is one general basic knowledge. It's not just Mr. Gašo Knezevic's fault. It's also the previous government, because the last few years of what's been coming out as a finished student, or as a graduate student, believe me, 15 years ago could not have come to the second year of any of our colleges. The criterion has been reduced for many reasons, but probably trendy, because this way avoids what is necessary in the schooling process, which is that our children get this sense of responsibility and get one awareness of the system of values that they have. I'm probably a Puritan here. Of course, conservative, not closed to something new, but fundamental values don't change. They don't change, and our education system is in the good part of it. I agree with Mr. Pal Shandor. I wouldn't want to repeat what he said. He well noted that perhaps something should be done in the methodology of telling what was prescribed by the program. It's not a good thing we have special advice for calming down giving advice. It's not good that we have special centers. It's not good that one who pulled out students and students and students and educators on the streets now forbids a strike. Not good, one law on basic education regulates certain things that are regulated by other things. We're going to talk about the amendment to Article 60, where Mr. Gašo Knezevic managed to deny himself. There he gave a legal solution to what means a complex administrative act in his consent to the selection of directors, but he did not apply it. He hasn't applied that since 27 December 2002. Of course, you probably feel that it is the Serbian Radical Party that will never forget you. 1300 pages of that book were printed in several thousand copies. We will try to provide several thousand more copies of that book, complemented by the comment of a law like this that should destroy what is the current people, and that is a general broad education.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-04-0.u30691	The People's Messenger Golub Rajic has the word, and after him, the MP Milutin Svedovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-04-0.u30692	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament and Mr Minister, on the agenda of the Eighth Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia Proposal for a Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System, proposed by a group of 86 DOS MPs, on a regular basis. Although an emergency examination was announced. These draft laws want the Government and the Ministry of Education to reform education and education according to European Union requirements similar to those of other countries in transition. No matter where we are as a society, little in secret, quite quickly, without the public debate and consultation of certain institutions, without logic and meaning and without criticism of the existing situation, this law for the first time introduces a system of nine-year primary education, two-year secondary and three-year secondary education, or four-year secondary education. Preschool education is for the first time introduced into a mandatory education system, and the paper is that the passing of a correctional exam has enabled all, regardless of the number of insufficient assessments. In the first two years, students would describe themselves, the final exam would take place after the primary school in general, and teachers would be given work permits, licenses every five years and further stimulated for training. About the Socialist Party of Serbia, the knowledge of one of our greatest roles for the third millennium, the education of a young generation must be able to work, live and create in a new century, and that the reform needs to relieve itself of a massive programme with its modernisation with equal opportunities policy, free of charge at all levels and tailored to the needs of the economy and society. This bill of law doesn't offer that. This assembly has already passed some laws that have caused chaos in the state and have created many problems for the citizens. I will state the Law on Privatisation, the Labour Act, but the consequences that will bring about the adoption of this law and the damages to Serbia's intellectual and national collapse are irreparable. This law will lead us into an inferior position towards the world, and so far we are considered an extremely smart and intellectually educated nation. This bill on the basis of a system of education and education where Serb language signifiers need an interpreter, where not enough care is taken about the care of nationality, culture and tradition, introduces new solutions and a law on targeted education, etc. The Shuvar Law, and other long-overrun rules where we had educational inspections, assistant teachers, a small graduation and others. Describing changes and additions to the law on primary and secondary school, the minister of education mentioned some three "D", depolitisation, decentralisation, democratisation. That's what he mentioned today through professionalization. But through the bill, he gave up on it, especially decentralisation. And almost every member of the law has left the possibility of something being regulated in a special law or as prescribed by the minister, and therefore a member of the 28th law dealing with the ministry's jurisdiction is quite shrewd and has about five powers, and everything else will be subsequently regulated by regulations and other regulations and I don't think that's good. It's interesting that the 10th form three tips. The purpose of the third is to coordinate the first two, which is unnecessary and only a bunch of administrative apparatus at huge costs when budgets are empty because the economy is not working. Strong commissions, expert teams and other working bodies are also unnecessary. The mandate of the Educational Council is more logical to monitor the government's mandate as regulated by Article 12. The existence of a Council and a Centre is unnecessary unless they are obliged to prepare the relevant material within a specified period or to establish a proposal for an act and to fulfil the tasks prescribed by Article 27. The law. The question is how good it is that under Article 32 of the institution they can set up next to the Republic, an autonomous province, units of local self-government and other legal and physical persons, meaning those who have money. Where it will take us, no matter what private founders are asked to start, requires a bank guarantee, which will prove they have money for a three-year cycle of education. It is not good that the 59th is left with the possibility that a teacher with a suitable higher education, with five years of training, and for life, I think that should be limited to at least two terms, and the absurd is that the director has a higher school, and the secretary has to be a graduate lawyer. It should also not leave the possibility of a Minister in Article 61 that he gives consent to the school board's decision, where the teachers' council proposing candidates and the school board are competent enough to carry out the right selection of directors. In Article 102, too, it is necessary to leave the right of the teacher to assess the students under established criteria at the end of the first and second term, not from the rule of law in accordance with the specific law. It is not good to even balance Article 132 as serious injuries to employee rejection and to give insight into the results of the written examination of knowledge to students and parents by encouraging the use of alcohol and narcotics or by physical moral and sexual abuse. The SPS has submitted 20 amendments to this bill, and some have been accepted, but regardless, it cannot be corrected and accepted and we will not vote for it, because it will be executed by education and young generations, and its implementation requires huge budgets.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-04-0.u30693	Before we finish today's work, a notice, the tenth session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia's National Assembly for Kosovo and Metohija will take place on Thursday 5 June 2003, starting at 9.30 p.m. in the Bureau's office downstairs. On the agenda will be the murder of the Stolic family in Obilić. This concludes today’s work and continues the work of the Assembly in 10.00 hours. The first registered speaker is MP Milutin Svedovic, followed by MP Djuro Popovic. Thank you. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the Eighth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2003. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, 105 MPs attend today's session. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that we have a quorum for the work of the National Assembly and continue the work of today's session. We inform you that the following MPs will be absent: Dragan Lazić, Marko Jakšić, Dragica Radulović, Sava Popadić, Vladimir Dobrosavljevic, Ljubodrag Grbić, Nebojsa Leković, Bojan Kostreš, Miroslav Markicevic, Ratimir Svirčević, Istvan Išpanović, Slavoljub Matić, Jon Čizaš, Aleksandar Stefanović, Visnja Nežić, Branislav Pomorski, Dragan Sutanovac, Branimir Trajković, Neda Arnerić, Goran Vesić, Nenad Bogdanović, Milan Marković, Dragasa Marinković and Goran Ćirić, MP Predrag Stojanović and National MP Ružica Veljović will be absent during the afternoon session. We move to the 1st point of the agenda: – Proposal for a LAW ON THE BASES OF THE EDUCATION SYSTEM AND THE VASPITANJA (continuation in principle) Please allow the National Assembly to be the MP Momcilo Trajkovic to address the Assembly as chairman of the Committee on Kosovo and Metohija. Here you go, MP.
