ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-15-0.u28486	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the fifth session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2003. I would like to inform you that 173 MPs attend the session, according to official record. Please, in order to determine the quorum, insert identification cards into your MPs. I find that we have a quorum for work and a quorum for decision making, since there are 160 MPs present in the hall. They were prevented from attending the following MPs: Stevan Lilic, Dusan Budisin, Jelena Milenkovic, Aleksandar Stefanovic, Radoslav Veseinović, Borisvoje Drakulović, Slobodan Pavlovic, Bosko Ničić and Branimir Trajkovic. The president, vice-presidents, ministers and the secretary of the government of the Republic of Serbia were invited to attend. This session, which was delivered to you, contained a draft agenda for the session. Before setting out the agenda for the session, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, we need to decide on proposals for putting on the agenda acts by emergency procedure. The government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed putting the National Assembly on the agenda of the Public Information Law, which submitted to the National Assembly on 3 April 2003. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 137, against 23, 24 of the 184 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has adopted this proposal by majority vote. The government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed that the National Assembly put the draft law on republican administrative fees on the agenda, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 4 April 2003. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 107, against 55, it did not vote 25 out of 187 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted this proposal by majority vote. The government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed putting the National Assembly on the agenda of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Company Tax Act, which submitted to the National Assembly on 4 April 2003. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 105, against 26, it did not vote 58 out of 189 MPs. I declare that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed putting the National Assembly on the agenda of the Law amending the Excise Act, which submitted to the National Assembly on 4 April 2003. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 106, against 26, 56 of the 188 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed putting the National Assembly on the agenda of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Financial transaction Tax Act, which submitted to the National Assembly on 4 April 2003. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 108, against 23, it did not vote 58 out of 189 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. National MP Siniša Mitrovic, based on Article 86. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly have proposed to bring together the debate on the Proposal for a Law on Republic Administrative Taxes, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Company Tax Act, the Proposal for a Law amending the Act on Excises and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Tax on Financial transactions. I am putting this motion to vote on the merger of the debate on the points that I have cited. For 108, against 58, a abstentioned one, did not vote 24, out of 191 MPs. I declare that the National Assembly has accepted the proposal of MP Sinisha Mitrovica on the merger of discussions on points 3 to 6. In accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, all points adopted by an emergency procedure shall be included in the agenda of the sittings in accordance with the order of their proposal, i.e. acceptance and shall be reported by the committees and by the Government during the session. Since we have come to the conclusion of the emergency motions, I would like to ask the MPs to come forward on the agenda of the session in general. I'm putting on a vote on a draft agenda in general. For 109 against 76, it did not vote 10 out of 195 MPs. I find that the National Assembly established the agenda of the Fifth Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2003. Dn e v n i r e d: 1. Proposal for a Law on Public Information, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, 2. Proposal for a Law on Planning and Construction, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, 3. Proposal for a Law on Republic Administrative Taxes, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, 4. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Company Tax Act, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, 5. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Excise Act, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, 6. The draft law amending and supplementing the Financial transaction Tax Act, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. We move to the 1st point of the agenda: - PROPOSAL OF THE PUBLIC INFORMATION LAW (principles) You have adopted the bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments submitted by MPs Ivan Andric, Vera Markovic, together Branislav Grubački and Novica Djuraskovic and together Svetlana Stojanović, Vladimir Andrić and Vukosav Tomasevic. The amendments that will be submitted until the start of the search will be sent to you. You have received reports from the Committee on Culture and Information and the Legislative Committee. At the meeting of the Committee on Culture and Information, the opinion was drawn up by MP Joca Arsic, a member of the Committee. Before the opening of the principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 90, the total time for debate is five hours and that it is allocated to parliamentary groups, a proportional number of MPs. I ask the representatives of the parliamentary groups to hand over a list of registered MPs who want to take part in the debate on this agenda item. In accordance with Article 136(1) of the Treaty, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a search in principle. I ask, do the representatives of the promoter - Professor Zarko Korac, Deputy Prime Minister and Branislav Lecic, Minister of Culture and Public Information - want a word? Yeah. ) The word is wanted by the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Zarko Korac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-15-0.u28487	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable presidents, honourable MPs, the public information law you have before you represents a system law of great importance for our country. The law concerns fundamental rights and human freedoms, which is to be informed. There is no democratic society and stable democracy without very clear rights guaranteed by the information law and in some other way; i.e. They exist where rights and freedoms of public information are guaranteed. The last law we had on public information was passed in 1998 and it can be considered a law against freedom of information. In 2000, by changing power, the law was suspended, with the exception of 16 members of the media. In the 19th century, Serbia received its first information law, which of course was not an information law, but a publishing law. It contains provisions that regulate this area. Over the past year and a half, we have had the opportunity to hear often in our public opinion that Serbia does not need an information law, that the best law in which there are no restrictions or the shorter the law. I think the practice of the last year and a half has shown convincingly how much a law like this is needed by all democratic societies. I'd only remind myself of the way the law was prepared. This law was created by the Serbian government entrusting a group of independent journalists and lawyers, and they created a group within the Media Centre that has worked very long and hard, in collaboration with a whole series of experts in European countries and specialized parts of European institutions, such as the Council of Europe, the OSCE and others. Their work and a large number of public debates have produced very good results, but we have come to the situation that this group was composed of two rather unequal works of education. The lawyers had a proposal for some solutions and journalists for another. In our public, there are often two questions: did this group manage to agree -- 80-90% of things have been agreed; secondly, in the final version there have been differences, but besides them we have waited some time to see if there is going to be a dispute. You know, the only reason this law worked for about 15 months is because it's our desire not to arbitration the government, but the journalists themselves, the media and the lawyers. So, we have done extremely democratically, and probably this long-term public debate is one of the reasons why this law was finally directed to the Serbian Parliament just over a month ago. I'd like to say something about the law itself. This law is largely based on some of our current practices, our experiences both negative and positive, but above all it is in accordance with Article 10. The European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Freedoms, which says: "Everyone has the right to freedom of expression. This right includes freedom of opinion and freedom to receive or communicate information and ideas without interference from state authorities and regardless of borders, which does not prevent countries from submitting companies in the field of broadcasting, film or television to the license regime." So this is this famous 10th member who guarantees the right to freedom of information. Of course, I must refer to those who often call on this member, that he has attitude 2, and this convention has a Article 8. Article 2 is stated in the reasoning of the law, and it says that there are certain obligations and responsibilities in this process. Article 8 is very important, it's not quoted here, and it basically protects the right of a person to be protected from slander and misinformation. This was the essence of our work, how to balance two different rights: one and the other is the right for people to be informed; the other, objectively also exists on the basis of human rights, to protect people from injury to reputation, slander and misinformation. We have unequivocally defined ourselves, first of all, to protect freedom of information, but we have also taken very seriously into account the protection of people, their reputation, the public figure. From that point of view, we have often come across some misunderstandings, although previous laws have included the right to reply, and we have rightly worked it out, I want to refer you to Article 57 and 19 of the constraint conditions not to publish the answer, but no doubt the answer is published when an unskilled court is brought, but rather a material fact that is not true in relation to any citizen of this country. Many people in the media did not understand why the answer would have to be in the same place and in the same size as the information that violates your reputation or something else. It is underestimating what damage can be done to a man by publishing some false truth, and I am personally surprised that there are people who want this kind of irresponsibility, that man can be defiled not by some estimates, but by making false facts. So here it's just about the fact, not the value courts; they are, of course, the right of journalists and there are other procedures provided for in these and other laws that someone can claim damage or otherwise compensate. So much for Article 57. I must say that this law for the first time regulates what the media must not do, things that are not practically directed so far, such as abuse of minors, pornography, hate speech; some things are more precisely, and some are explicitly forbidden by this law; these are some civilizational fluids, especially democratic countries. I would say in the end, not giving too much insight because I think there has been a lot of talk about this bill in our public, that this bill has come across the support of the relevant European institutions. I would just add, it may have been possible for you to do so along with the materials, but this is not the practice of this assembly, that the media expert that the Council of Europe has hired, and he has otherwise participated in earlier consulting stages here with us, has given a very positive final assessment of this bill, that the law has been done in accordance with what European expectations and practices are. I would also say that statements are better than no, deeply offensive to the people who have worked on this job for a very long time. Finally, my personal opinion, this law provides a solid legal framework for us to guarantee the freedom to inform and protect themselves participants of this process, journalists, people from the media, but of course citizens themselves who are primarily informed. I have to say, we did another following law. It is a law on the availability of information of public importance. Dear MPs, you can find it on the Ministry of Information website, now it's called the media. So whoever wants to see him can see him. That law is about this one. We here, in advance, will adopt an amendment that states in this law that it is guaranteed everyone's right to receive certain information. It's a whole law, it's a step away, we'll talk about it when it appears before the Assembly here and before you, and it guarantees information of public importance. The law is addressed to all citizens, not only to the media, but primarily to people in the media. At this point, this is our bill of law, it seems appropriate for our society. I think this law protects one of the most important human freedoms. It seems to us that this law will somehow put an end to the media jungle present at this point, at least for information. It introduces order and responsibility, but also protects journalists and participants. This law for the first time clearly and explicitly regulates the right to protect sources of information. The journalist won't have to say, under certain conditions, the source of his information; it's a true civilization achievement. That's why the journalist is twice protected just for the sake of freedom of information. He can get into a situation where he has accurate and important information, and he wants to protect his source so he doesn't answer for the information he gave. Dear People's MPs, I hope, and I'm sure you'll have to pay attention to this law. What we are discussing at this point is the desire to pass this law as quickly as possible because it represents a step further in the development of all of us, in the development of our society and democratic freedoms in our society, creating a legal basis for us to have a modern system of information. Of course, the practice and everything that will come on this law is something else, but certainly the law will largely determine the character of our media practice and rights, freedom in the field of information in the months and years ahead. In the end, just one sentence. Nobody said the law was perfect. There's always something that can be added and taken away. I have to say that there have been amendments that seem extremely reasonable and as far as I'm concerned, I'm telling you in advance that some of the amendments, and perhaps quite a number of amendments that I've seen so far, will be very serious on behalf of the government. I think it has been an effort made by the MPs to take a very careful look at this law and give some very interesting and very constructive suggestions for me how this law can be improved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-15-0.u28488	I would like to thank the prime minister, Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Zark Korac. I'm asking, do the officials of the committees want the word? Mr. Ivan Andric, chairman of the Committee on Culture and Information? No, I don't. ) Does Mr. Bojan Pajtic want a word? No, I don't. ( b) Does the MP, who singled out his opinion at the committee session, want a word? There's a word from MP Joca Arsic. Five minutes for a separate opinion. )
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-15-0.u28489	Dear colleagues and colleagues, on the Committee on Culture and Media, who changed his name, I gave my opinion for several reasons. First, what motivated me to isolate my opinion and disagree with the proposed solutions given in this law; before that, it is a good thing that it finally came to the agenda of this temptation. After a break of a few years after the suspension of the Information and Vacuum Act that lasted or, as lawyers like to say, through several years, the legal text proposed by the Government was finally in front of us; as the Deputy Prime Minister put it, explaining this law, from two variants that preceded this solution, a compromise was found as a better quality and better solution. Not everything in this law can be challenged. There are solutions that can be supported, but also our amendments to fix this text of the law where solutions are not of a quality and can be found better in the interests of journalists, public protection and those discussed in newspapers and electronic media. My point is that this law does not regulate a whole range of media facts, which are an integral part of the media space, is not fully resolved and does not contain all the elements that need to regulate relations in the media sphere. The law does not deal with public votes and newspapers until the end, but rather with the protection of the ruling set against the same journalists and their votes, regardless of what the ruling set is, because the government is variable. Also, the law should cover legal regulations on satellite and cable television. I think that this sphere is completely missed, and that we have witnessed that through various satellite and cable programs, non-selective and completely volunteering emissions bombed us these days by various information about the need to wage war in Iraq, through the transfer of foreign public votes to which it was in the media interest. We also think that RTS cannot be excluded from this law, because RTS, apart from being a public service, should be in the interest not only of the citizens, but of the states of Serbia. It is certain that it should be the service of all citizens, but there should also be a service through which to place what is a state interest as information, as an idea or a need for a wider media space covering RTS. I have an objection to criminal policy, as announced, should have been changed. She's pretty radical. The fines range from a minimum of five thousand to a million dinars. We think that the range is too wide and that the last measures of a million dinars are too sharp and too strict. Article 99 provides that public votes, whose founders of the socio-political community, of the municipality, are to be transformed within 12 months of the adoption of this law. That's what we've submitted the amendment to. We think the explanation along with the amendment will be far more quality. I'm just mentioning it here. There's something else I want to say. It is inappropriate for this law, which should be democratic fluid, to be passed at a time of emergency. It's my strictest regret for the time in which we pass the law. It is not appropriate that in an emergency, such a law is passed, which pleads to be democratic. When we waited so long, we could wait for some more time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-15-0.u28490	I ask if the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Before I give my word to the MP, Zarko Obradovic, just one brief notice. I scheduled a meeting tomorrow with the heads of Parliament at 10.00 hours in my office, as I will be absent from the session today. There is a word from MP Zarko Obradovic, president of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-15-0.u28491	The Honorable Presidency, fellow MPs and Mr Korac, the Socialist Party of Serbia believes it is poor and unacceptable that the public information law is considered and adopted under conditions of emergency, which have conditioned and produced a number of restrictions right in the field of information. This law has been discussed for more than two years. The previous law was abolished, according to DOS explanations, allegedly because it was an obstacle to achieving the Constitution of guaranteed freedom of the press and other forms of public information and freedom of public opinion. Time has shown that the law is primarily abolished for the purpose of fulfilling the DOS pre-election promises, not for the purpose of ensuring freedom of public information, because the government has not essentially tried or found it appropriate this three years to propose a new law on public information, although all this time the law in this area is an urgent task of the government. The government has not hurried for a simple reason that in the past two years it has become an absolute master of the media space of Serbia and the owner of information through the Bureau of Informing the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Extraprofit Act and other ways. The confirmation of this is also the behaviour of formally independent private media, with Pink, BK TV and a number of printed media that have simply raced over the past two years to transfer from the circles close to the government and the ruling DOS relevant information, according to the rule of affirming the results of the government and the DOS and the anthemisation of all others, especially the Socialist Party of Serbia and its members. For analysis, arguments, facts, there was no room for answers. Understandably, under such conditions, the government did not rush too much with the new law, and the state of emergency certainly because of certain restrictions is not the right time for this law to be adopted. Secondly, the Socialist Party of Serbia believes it is bad that the area of public information, knowingly by the government, is broken into several parts, into several legislative projects, which, instead of in the package, are adopted when, as much as contributes to chaos in this area. The law on broadcasting has already been passed months ago, and this law will be passed these days. There remains a law on the availability of information, a law on telecommunications, which gives the government broad opportunities for arbitration and direct and indirect control of the media. Third, we think it is also bad that the law is being considered without direct transposition and the possibility of Serbian citizens seeing directly and hearing what the opposition parties think of this bill. We have checked multiple times during the state of emergency and debate in this House what is and how much is being transferred from the opposition's positions. Mr. Korać, honoring the exceptions, and it is one or two 15-20 media, which are formally accredited and transferring these sessions of the Assembly in an indirect manner, but almost no one publishes a single view of the opposition, the Socialist Party of Serbia or anyone else, not even what is the position of a party, let alone what someone has said in the presentation, using the normal provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Some journalists have told us, Mr. Korać, that they are also sending information from here, but that editors refuse to publish anything that does not fit the concept of the list. Of course, it's absolutely political. That's why we say it's bad that there's no direct transmissions. It's paradoxical, but true, we're talking about public information today, and there's no direct transmission of the Assembly's session. In such conditions, you will admit, in a hypocritical and unreal sense, the provisions of the laws which say that public information is free, are not subject to censorship, no one must in an indirect manner limit freedom of public information, free flow of information, opinions, etc., and everything is the opposite. The government's position will all know, because it will only be conveyed, your words spoken today. The opposition's position will not be heard by anyone or almost anyone, as it reflects the current situation and the agreement found on daily briefings in the government of the Republic of Serbia. So, this law goes ahead with negatively three facts: that it is brought at a time of emergency, that it is adopted without direct transmission, means the possibility for Serbian citizens to hear the views of the opposition's representatives and that it was sent to the assembly procedure by the Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, who is also the Minister of the Interior. This in itself speaks of the democratic character of this law, because there are many provisions that are problematic. In many provisions, the bill is imprecise, voluntary, subject to different interpretations, sometimes contradictory, unspeakable. A number of issues of importance for public information are not mentioned at all. Despite the government's earlier promises that the public information law will not contain any restrictions or bans, the bill is full of them, pointing to the proposal's goal of protecting itself from journalists and public ballots. The Socialist Party of Serbia cannot support such a bill. There are several examples of absolute arbitration that opens up a space for abuse of rights in the field of public information. What is meant by the wording in Article 3 is that the journalist and the editor responsible of the public record are obliged to verify its origin, truth and completeness prior to the publication of the information contained in the information on a particular event, appearance or personality. What does it mean to pay attention to the circumstances? Nothing, that's what the journalist, editor and owner of that owner intends to do. In Article 9, the right to protect the privacy of state and political operators is limited to the relatively legitimate interest of the public in any particular case. Who assesses this relatively justified public interest? Journalist, editor, owner, state, who is he? If we apply this article to our current situation, we would probably get completely contradictory views on this legitimate public interest. If it is to be tried by citizens, and we from the Socialist Party of Serbia support it, it is necessary that today, the day after tomorrow, when the state of emergency is lifted, journalists investigate and a public statement by politicians, so-called. Businessmen or third parties in the last year, two, three, five have been in contact with criminals who have been accused of killing the president of the Republic of Serbia, where they met, in which street, in which building, in which places. That information would in itself provide answers to a much wider range of questions than is being asked today. Someone else can estimate, based on this formulation, what's the public's interest and stop it. The wording in Article 44 regarding the publication of information from private life means that it can be published if the person has given cause for publication by his conduct? What kind of behavior is the condition for publication, and who estimates it? The weak point of the law is the principle and incomplete provision concerning the ban on monopoly in the field of public information. Monopoly can only be prevented by limiting the percentage to which the founder can participate in the ownership of newspapers, radios, televisions and other public messages. This is extremely important, not only to protect pluralism and ideas, as stated in the Bill's proposal, but in certain cases to protect national and national interests. In the founding fathers, the law does not regulate the question of proving the origin of money that can also be dirty money. Everywhere in the world, it's an extremely significant part of the law. The part of the law relating to the ban on the distribution of information, meaning from 16th to 24th members, does not need to be talked much, since it speaks in itself enough about the character of this law. It's a miracle that no satellite television was included, since we had a situation that, through TV satellites, some domestic stations directly transmitted Sky Nenjs and CNN's programs, which propagated war and fueled violence. Why did the government not regulate the issue; it believes it should or should not do so, since it can cause international consequences. Part of the law relating to journalists and the professional association of journalists is incomplete and contradictory. The press are here between heaven and earth. One view says that he cannot stop his working relationship if his opinion contradicts the editorial concept of a public note, so if he does not press, then he can, and immediately in the next, he cannot stop his working relationship because he refuses to carry out a warrant that contradicts the editorial character of the public message. In this situation, of course, you know who's older. He's senior editor and list owner and he'll decide what an editorial concept is. The events in Iraq confirmed this precisely on the case of journalist Peter Arnett. He did not question the character, i.e. war as a way of achieving the interest of the United States, but he questioned the way in which that war was carried out and was fired. Presumption of innocence; this is a good member, but there's a little problem about him. The way it is in our terms isn't worth it because it's not applied. If this member stays like this, without any addition, it does not apply under emergency conditions. I'll remind you, a daily newspaper brought the title "Killed for SPS." Not only has it been ripped out of content, and that information from the ministry we believe is scandalous and absolutely unacceptable, but the journalist has taken the right to say in the title what is not in the content. I'll continue later. In any case, the Socialist Party of Serbia thinks this law is not good.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-15-0.u28492	Do any of the presidents or authorised representatives of the motionors want a word? There's a word from the MP Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-15-0.u28493	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, just one brief review of one of the government's representatives, Mr. Zarko Korać, and Minister Branislav Lecic is gone. We talked about when the Ministry Act was passed that the minister of information should be re-elected, because this also now proves that Minister Lecic is unable to deal with this problem. But Mr. Korać has issued a qualification that the previous law, which was abolished in 2001, was a law against freedom of public information. The evaluation itself calls into question the decisions of a congregation. The previous congregation passed such a law, and now this congregation cannot evaluate it in this way. The composition of this assembly will change, some other people will come to this assembly, so imagine, after five or six months to one year, we say: this law, passed this year, was a law against freedom of public information. It just doesn't work. There are authorities in this country who deal with these issues, and the Assembly is responsible, of course, politically or otherwise, about what laws it adopts. No one can question them except the public, who's going to give their judgment in the election one day. You mentioned Article 8. The Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, and this article is now allowing and guaranteeing the right of a person to be protected from slander. It's the only thing you can possibly place on the soul of the previous law, which protected people from slander, as was the light in our journalism and the means of public information. If you want me to remind you, one of these was the information that Dr. Vojislav Seselj killed. He slaughtered Jovic's wife. So imagine that such a thing remains unpunished, that such a thing should not be sanctioned and called slander. Or, Covic's statements that four million German marks were spent on the SRS campaign, and we only spent 150 euros in this campaign, paid one TV show and gas, costs for three vehicles that went through Serbia. And then, when something like this shows up in the press, of course, tendingly, it has to be sanctioned somehow. So, what you've put to the heart of that previous law, which you think was against freedom of public information, does not stand. You denied it yourself in your opening statement. You have admitted in your explanation that there is chaos in the field of public information, that is, in the media sphere, chaos, and I really agree with you, although the justification for the adoption of the law by emergency procedure cannot really be accepted, since you are calling for reasons for which we have come into emergency and to prevent further harmful tendencies and consequences for the citizens and their right to be timely and truthfully informed. If we want to be honest, it is an undeniable need to pass such a law, which would regulate freedom of public information, allow free formation and presentation of opinions, as well as rights and duties in public information, freedom of printing of public messages and production and broadcasting of radio and TV programmes. It is indisputable that since 15 February 2001, when you passed the Law on the termination of the Law on Public Information, there has been chaos in this area, and the Government, if it has already proposed the abolition of this law, was to at the same time, or at least within the shortest time, to make an effort to offer the Assembly a new law. For two years, however, we have been waiting for such a law and it only shows that the government was in the interest of creating chaos in the sphere of public information and to enable itself to have all the means of public information in office of the executive authority. I'll remind you that there are nearly 300 television stations in Serbia, I don't know how many printed newspapers there are. All these TVs have been created over the past 10 to 12 years, not in the past two years. Many televisions were controlled by local self-government. Where the opposition, where you've held power for years, I can tell you from the experience of the SRS that we've never been able to visit on these local televisions. We can especially visit on private televisions, and for months now, and especially since the introduction of emergency status, we absolutely can't visit anywhere. It is now a state of public information and it is this pluralism of opinion and the possibility that in the means of information, we should say what we think about certain current developments in the country, on all issues concerning political life. I can also assume what information will go after or during today's session by journalists who follow in front of their editions at the National Assembly, because for weeks in the press and on television you can read and hear only that on the agenda, here is today the Fifth Session of the First Regular Session, as the first item of the agenda of the Public Information Bill, that the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr Korać, has criticised the previous law, that he spoke aphidically of the new law, and what the opposition said, what the opposition and all MPs here in the National Assembly who belong to the opposition, will probably be in one, possibly two sentences, and I think that's the basic reason why today, when the National Assembly's sessions are not being passed, we are in a state of emergency considering this law. And now logically think, you, Professor Korać, psychologist and logic are not your side, how contradictory it is and how abnormal it is, are there no public right and opportunity to hear what we are here about such an important sphere of social life, the sphere of public information, and think about what this bill contains. You'll have one or two TV shows, and your associates, probably Minister Lecic will go on one of the TVs and talk about the law, but the rest of us won't be able to say anything and that shows the right picture. I'm sure even this law won't contribute to a better state of affairs in the means of information than it does now. We can't argue with the fact that in recent weeks, we've been here for over a month, in a state of emergency, that the pressure on the media is enormous, that the government has an extraordinary influence on all the media, especially the state media. What it has on state media can be understood, but fear of private and all other media cannot be tolerated. There's an impression, given the moment it's being passed, that the law is being passed just to prolong the situation that has already been founded in the last few weeks. I won't be able to look back in 20 minutes on everything we object to. We have filed over 40 amendments to the law, to all key points of this law. When we speak in detail, we'll try to let you know what's wrong and what, eventually, needs to be changed, done, perfected. Given the experience of other countries, if we want to consult a little and a parallel right in the freedom of the press, there are significant differences in the determination of the content and boundaries of this fundamental right in parallel. Some stops are exhaustingly engaged in regulation of freedom of the press, others are satisfied only by establishing the principle of freedom of the press and banning censorship. For example, stop Holland, Spain, Denmark approve of freedom of the press as part of freedom of thought. The German Constitution guarantees freedom of the press and prohibits censorship. You say public information is free and in the public interest, which I really don't know what it means, because the public will determine what's in her interest. There's no one else in her name who can determine what's in the public's interest to know something. Detailed provisions on press freedom contain the constitution of Greece, Italy, Portugal. In Greece, for example, censorship is considered an ipso iura abolished, and is allowed only in exceptional cases, although the prosecution is obliged to confiscate the whole matter within 24 hours, which within 24 hours, means in an extremely urgent procedure, to suspend or confirm the seizure. Portugal explicitly prohibits televisions from being in private property. So, very charming. We did not respect our constitution either; it guarantees freedom of the press and other types of public notification in Article 46; it says that citizens have the right to express and publish their opinions in means of public notification, that the issue of newspapers and public information by other means is available to all and without authorisation, with registration of the register by the competent authority and that radio and television organisations are established in accordance with the law. You have violated the Constitution here in that sense, which, although in your explanation, you write that even an entrepreneur can be the founder of a public record, you cannot see it from the law. The legal person can only be the founder of a public record. That's where you broke the Constitution, that you didn't allow individuals to be the founders of public texts, and there's no reason not to. The constitution prohibits the censorship of the press and other types of public information. No one can prevent the breaking up of the press and the spread of other notices unless the decision of the competent court finds that they are called for violent destruction by the Constitution of established arrangements, violation of territorial integrity, independence of the Republic of Serbia and so on; therefore, the highest values. In the last month alone, it has been prohibited to leave the duosters, "Nacional" and "Identity", TV Leskovac has been fined with 300,000 dinars, and Minister Lecic, after visiting Tomislav Nikolic on a local television set in Tristenik, asked to be delivered to him to examine the tape. Of course, it's not called censorship, but then you can hit the pucks, which I think is fine, because it wouldn't be bad for Mr. Lecic to allow us radicals to visit on local television, to take all those tapes, look around and find answers to all the questions that I can't find an answer to. You were talking about the restrictions in the previous law and that it was directed against freedom of public information. I'd like to remind you of just one fact - at which point that law was passed. If you remember, in 1998 we had great terrorism in Kosovo and Metohija. You called it a struggle for democratic rights. I guess now you can see how delusional you were. At that point, we asked the law to ban ourselves, given that we were expecting aggression, and it was clear to all of us that it was very likely that there was an aggression of the NATO Pact on our country, that in some ways the subversive action that foreign radio stations had for their purpose, such as "Decree Great", "Free Europe", "France International" and similar. No one can blame us. If nothing else, this moment where we are now, in which you have been much more rigorous towards domestic public information means, I mean the state of emergency, at least the couples of what was in 1998, means the state of immediate war danger and in 1999, when we were at war. Whoever wants to be objective, they have to admit it. In addition, all laws are passed in relation to the moment in which the state and society are located and need to regulate or warn some side effects. I suppose here was also the intention that this sphere of life, i.e. public information, was arranged in the way that you think is best, even though you've admitted to us that 15 months of this law has been done by some lawyers, I don't know which, and the press. We expect the government to be a promoter, not some association of citizens or I don't know who. It is known by the Constitution who can be the legislator. That's why I think you're behind this law, not the association of some lawyers or the association of journalists. I don't dispute their interest in these laws and solutions under this law, but the government could only take it to the knowledge, and it couldn't allow them to work alone to make this law. Lately, we've had a situation that on national television, on all televisions that are mostly covering the entire country, we've been listening to ministers talk about everything and everything, just not about what's in their ministry's job description. You should learn once in the government that on behalf of the government only the Prime Minister can speak, and that each minister can move, in public statements, only within the jurisdiction of his ministry. Then it wouldn't have happened to us that Minister Lecic was talking about crime and who he was responsible for and who he was doing what he did, or that any of the ministers gave such flat-rates. Perhaps that's why Minister Lecic didn't come to the assembly today, so he wouldn't be in a position to be called for everything he said. I have to admit that Mr. Lecic played the best role in his life, the role of minister, and only then did he confirm himself as an actor, if he wasn't in that commercial when he advertised leather jackets; but that's what we do, we have the government of experts. I don't really have time to look individually at individual laws; I say, a large number of amendments we have submitted, and in this debate we will try to further convince you that the law is not good and that it has to be fixed. The SRS won't vote for this law anyway. The assumption is that you will not respect our opinion as you have so far, and you will assure us of good intentions and that you want public information to be free and in function, as you say, to the public, only if... (President: 20 minutes. Here, I'm finishing up... In future, in the means of informing the activities of all political actors in this country, they will be at least as proportionate as we are represented in the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-15-0.u28494	The word comes from MP Dejan Mihajlov, president of the DSS parliamentary group, and from MP Dragan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-15-0.u28495	Dear People's MPs, Vice-President of the Government, so we finally got a bill that regulates the field of public information, given that a little over two years ago we put out of force the Public Information Act against which we were all against in some earlier times, which we said was undemocratic. After that, we had two years to simply ensure rampage in the media space, in general in public information in Serbia. Without the control of all kinds of lies, various information, and there were some media that had always been close to the regime, whether the previous, whether the present, simply at these moments had become almost unsustainable. The DSS has certainly requested before to discuss the proposal for a public information law, in general the laws governing the area of media - telecommunications, broadcasting, public information and the natural availability of information. These are some preconditions so we can say that we are the state where the media space is arranged. We have so far been covered by these regimeal media lies; just remember those lies of Pink TV, when President Kostunica went to China, to a state visit, that there was some Broz furniture, so it was placed that lie, it was repeated multiple times; and this law allows it to be replaced. Remember the lies of the Communications Bureau, related to listening; the Delimustafic affair; all these lies placed by the regime media. In some talks, certain vice-presidents of the government said -- we need these media at this stage to deal with the DSS, which is why it simply took Pink television to deal with the DSS, but good. That is why the public information law has not been passed before, because the chaos in the media space has been used; it is now depicting the wild west of the media area, as defined in Serbia. We in the real sphere of information have a wild west where there are no borders, no criteria, no good taste, no dignity, no nothing, but there is a criterion of the same in accordance with the wild west - tied horses where your boss tells you; so many media tied their horse in front of the Republic of Serbia's Communications Bureau, there they obviously drank and ate and thus informed. I mean, first of all, those Pink-type media. But, well, we'll probably talk about them after this, and they'll probably be the subject when the various reports are written, the rules of various books, and when we can talk about those who have created media empires in this people's accidents. To go back to the law, I still have one dilemma, since the working group of prominent journalists and experts in this area prepared this bill, yesterday and today we heard that they were not consulted on this latest version of the law. Finally let's hear what's true, whether until the end the journalists and the task force were involved in making this final text of the bill, because some journalists say -- this is much different from what we suggested, this is not what we wrote, there were some changes made by the working group, and that's something that I would like to hear from the promoter. There are a number of provisions in this law concerning procedural law which determines the case before the court. It's a good thing that all actions under this law will be brought before the court, it won't be like in the old days, and that's good. We have an disproportionate number of provisions, more than half of the law are procedural provisions, which is strange and should not have room in the public information law. The law would have to deal with information, not procedural provisions. It's where it is, and it's certainly better than the existing state. What gets into the eyes is a 31st member, where a person who can be the subject of some information is protected by a member of the press. That's one disproportionateity. The essence of the public information law is to create some balance between information that needs to be made available to the public and not to be made available to the public. So, on the one hand, we have protection of persons who are subject to information, and on the other hand, protection of journalists who transmit that information, or publish it. Only one member is involved in the protection of journalists. We feel that this is definitely where we need to fix that part of the law and allow journalists to work more freely and independently. When we talk about independent work, we primarily think about timely and true information. Independent information is due to the period in which we were, where there was a strict division of the regimeal and independent media, and we need to start using the concepts of timely and true information, which is much more in the spirit of the system that we have to build. That's why a member who protects journalists may be insufficient and perhaps this is the way to an auto-censorship that needs to be established, where journalists out of fear, the possibility of losing their jobs, the fear of being punished, and the message, will go through self-censorship. That is why these mechanisms should simply be developed and some journalists' objections to the working group's work are heading towards a little protection. There they need to define the position of journalists to the end, allow them to work better. A lot of provisions protect a person from the abuse of certain information. That's good, that newspaper didn't exist and it will allow false information to be repeated to an evil god so that false information becomes true. You have televisions that capture one false, false information, so it's unmistakable every half hour, and you don't have a chance to stop it. That's what Pink has been practicing, let the communications desk be released every half hour, and then it's published every half hour, and you know it's not true, and what the facts and evidence are completely opposite, you don't have the opportunity to react and say -- that's not true, it's just that you can't publish it. You can do it tomorrow or in two days, but the question is what effect you'll have then. This law allows the transmission of false information to be prevented after the first publication, which is completely good. So far, the problem with public information has also been that, regardless of the obligation to publish some information, in the same extent as where the original information was made, it was not done and you get the information on the first or on the other side, in the first, third or fifth minutes of the diary, and the deficits go in the 15th minute or on page 7, 8th or 10th. It was simply not respected and much more necessary to control the work in placing this information. The DSS has proposed, insisting there is a possibility of introducing and forming a news agency. It is not possible by this law. We have given the amendment and we believe that this law should allow for the possibility of a special law forming a state news agency. We don't think the state needs that right to deny itself. If, in one period, it does not have to happen, there is a need to form a news agency, and that is not bad, it can thus provide legitimate information, truthfully, since it is a practice of over 15 countries in Europe, so it would not be worse to leave that possibility. Private agencies are private and we're talking again about funding these agencies. We can get into a situation where whoever's funding an agency can influence information they're going to place. One more thing I'd like to mention, which is a special chapter or a special attitude -- hate speech, and that hate speech under the pretext. I don't think that's good, hate speech under quotes is something that doesn't know Serbian. This does not know any other law, it knows discrimination and all that, calling for racial and any other discrimination and the release of false information and everything else. The hate speech put in this way, it's a bit controversial...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-15-0.u28496	Are you using the next ten minutes?
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-15-0.u28497	No, I'm done. Just one more sentence. That, by the looks of it, can't stand. We have some amendments in the direction of hate speech. We believe that hate speech can be abused and used, especially since there are a lot of provisions on volunteerism. And who is he who will appreciate what the word of hatred is and what is left of hate speech. It's simply a question for us. Is it perhaps within the framework, as this government commission was announced, to examine the work of the media or something else, is it in line with that pressroom, which Brana Crncevic once wanted to form in the government of the Republic of Serbia, which was supposed to be the control bureau, or the placement and... (President: 11 minutes. I'm finishing... Is that what's planned here? There's still a lot of vague things. I hope that through this debate and through amendments we can come to a solution. Otherwise, the DSS will support this bill in principle, because we think it is better that there is a law that will regulate the wild west in the field of public information. This law belongs to a group of more modern laws, so it can serve as a real basis for building a healthy public information system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-15-0.u28498	The word has been issued by MP Dragan Markovic, president of the SSJ parliamentary group, so MP Bojan Pajtic, president of the DOS parliamentary group – Serbia's Reform.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-15-0.u28499	The Honorable Presidency, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Soviet Union will not vote for this bill for any more reason. First, we think it is not the time for such an important law to be passed in the time in which we live and that there could be no public debate between those people who deal with this work, starting with media editors in Serbia, through the president of various news associations, to NGOs. We could hear that last night at RTS, where several media owners expressed their opinion and the opinion of all other journalists and media owners in Serbia. This law comes down to criminal provisions. Very few dots protect editors and journalists. This law only goes hand in hand to the ruling party, because it is in a position to use all the media in Serbia so that it can say what it means. On the other hand, the opposition when it wants to deny and to say that it is not true, then this medium, which the opposition has addressed so far, and this law, in particular, does not bind that medium to publish at the same time, or in the same diary, the same information show that it previously published as a lie. This law allows citizens to deceive and hide information. That investigative work of journalists is being destroyed, he's being banned; because a journalist now that he's on the ground, he has to take it and read the law. We have several members of this bill that have fines of 300-400 thousand dinars. The question is, how many months does one editor-in-chief have to work to earn that money to pay the fine? Several members of this law are contradictory. Article 13 - who can be the founder of a public message. They cannot be, directly or indirectly, state or territorial autonomy, or a company financed from public revenue, unless otherwise provided for. You see, some other law provides that local media founders can be local self-government. The local self-government is funding these local media, so I'm going to tell you specifically how much it costs to budget municipalities in the Pomorava County. In Jagodina, for example, 22 million dinars were given last year to a local TV station to inform citizens, and only one of the same people appeared there. Money's being spent on people's money. So this article is contradictory to you, and we have suggested that you adopt our amendment to erase that last position. Furthermore, there is another proposal, i.e. one member of the Law on Broadcasting, concerning the Law on Privatisation. Within four years, the media must be privatised. But, Mr. Minister, look what we're doing right now. A local TV station, the founder of local self-government, is opening in Paracino, and the funds are from a sold cement store. It's about officials in the municipality being the next owners. Then this company is brought into bankruptcy and bankruptcy is introduced, bids are issued. That's what's now being prepared in Jagodina. A bid is issued and then they come to the bidding of three, four men who are in charge of increasing one or two percent of the initial price and will be sold to the media, and people's money is being spent. Also, we have a comment on article 34 that says that electronic media, of course, and printed, but they don't mind, because they always leave more copies of the daily papers, that they have to keep a full day's program for 30 days. Be careful, if an electronic medium has between 12 and 15 hours of program, times 30 days, it is a large number of tapes and disks, and it requires a large price, i.e. a large cost of that medium. We see the amendment that the DOS is proposing 90 days. So, 90 days to store the material. You are controversial in Article 84, where it is said, the damages claim shall be filed within six months of the day of the publication of the information. So, six months per article, you have to keep the video and what's being broadcast daily. We have suggested that this member be deleted for the reasons that I have stated, when it comes to criminal provisions, when all of this is looked at, journalism is threatened, that the public word can no longer be placed the way it has been done so far. There's something good about this law. We can't say everything's wrong. The SS won't vote for this law, because this law has a lot of inadequacy. Its strong sides are criminal provisions, when it comes to editors-generals and journalists. That's why the SS won't vote for this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-15-0.u28500	The word has been issued by MP Bojan Pajtic, president of the DOS parliamentary group – Serbia's Reform.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-15-0.u28501	The Honorable Presidency, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is one of the preconditions of the general democratisation of society and, unlike the 1998 Law on Public Information, which we have put out of force at the first session of this Parliament, this law establishes mechanisms and procedures for sanctioning the lack of respect for freedom and the right of personality completely removed from any political influence. The previous law defined the administrative procedure, significantly limited, where the court responsible for the violations, the executive authority, which allowed the government to directly influence and deal with media that were potentially not alike. It's very common and done during that period. As a result, one of the basic and main moves of the assembly was to put out of force of the law, according to its repressiveness of one of the most notorious of the period. After the public information law, which we bring in after the formation of the Broadcasting Agency Council, which we have done last week, it is unusually important to round up the entire area once and for all by adopting the Telecommunications Law and completing the work entirely. This law is in line with the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and insists throughout its text on freedom of expression and public information. In the adoption of this law, a broad consensus has been reached both professional and political public. I am convinced that this congregation will accept such a text with understanding. One of the basic principles of this law is freedom of public information. It is unusual that the text of the law prevents not only the possibility of direct, but also indirect censorships of public information; therefore, the manipulation of official powers of different forms of state authority, the manipulation of the possibility of not allowing the media when it is necessary to do so, and that there are frequencies and technical opportunities for these permits to be granted and set up a whole series of safeguard mechanisms enables the media in their work to be fully defined as free, i.e. as part of social life limited solely by the freedoms and rights of others, primarily by citizens. The trial is defined as the only procedure in which the violation of these personal rights and freedoms of citizens can be sanctioned. Therefore, any possible infringements of public information are decided by the court in a precisely defined emergency procedure. And this is one of the measures that, because of the nature of the court as an independent and independent form of government, enables this area to be protected from direct political interference. The press attention is guaranteed. The law requires journalists to respect the obligation of truthfulness, complete and accuracy of the information to be published when publishing certain information. I think this is unusually important when defining the obligation and the need to professionalise our media, that this principle is highlighted as one of the basic principles of this text of the law. The commitment of the state is to help inform the languages of minorities, which naturally stems from the character of our state union as multinational and stems from all international conventions to which we are bound by membership in the Council of Europe and tomorrow membership in the European Union. The equality of public information, the ban on monopolies, regardless of whether or not these media and vote in private or state ownership, whether they are foreign or domestic natural persons, the monopoly in this sense absolutely cannot exist. The ban on monopoly continues to go through the text of the law and the distribution of public texts. Distribution cannot be conditioned in any way by the political likeness of a particular medium or by political intonation present in that medium, but by an exclusive exclusive moment for distributors can be the absence of an economic, or commercial interest in the distribution of such a medium. Of course, distributors can refuse to distribute a certain public voice without an impression. Impresm is unusually important from the point of view of establishing and defining concrete responsibility for what can be found in that note as a claim or as part of the text. The ban on distribution of information is one of the currents of the highest European standards. It can only be defined through a court ruling if there is a danger, i.e. in a particular text, the spread of racial, national, religious hatred and impatience, hate speech, an invitation to violence, which is also completely natural and in accordance with European standards. The responsibility of the editors is found in every law on public information anywhere in the world, defined as an obligation for the editor-in-chief to be the person whose residence is in the Republic of Serbia and has no immunity from criminal and any other responsibility. And this principle has been defined to protect the Constitution of guaranteed freedoms and rights of citizens. The press secret allows journalists to fully protect their sources of information, except when it comes to the most difficult forms of criminal acts for which a sentence of five years has been prepared. There's no cover-up for the perpetrator of that crime. This provision widely defines the right and possibility for journalists to write certain texts as freely as possible, so that they do not have to reveal the source that he consulted when making the text. The rights and obligations of public information are defined for the protection of constitutional rights and freedoms, and on the other hand they have been defined for the protection of the media, i.e. public votes. The obligation to keep certain records within a certain time-limit, to make such records known to the authorities of the Ministry of Interior, courts or persons of legal interest, to protect the media, to make public messages, and to allow citizens whose rights are potentially injured by the publication of certain information, and they were not able to record such information or otherwise allow such information to be documented. Right to answer, the right to a correction is something we have not only as a liquid of this law. We also have this as a liquid of the Law on Liabilities, as well as the Law on Compensation of Material and Intangible Damages, therefore both with Defamation and Insults; these rights are broadly defined through legislation and flows of continental legislation in this area. Presumption of independence, which is very important; the media and public ballots do not have the right to place any person, before a strong criminal conviction, guilty of a particular crime. It may be pointed out, if there is a certain suspicion, that a person has committed a criminal offence, but there is also a whole series of protective mechanisms, the obligation to publish a release sentence or to publish information that a certain procedure has been suspended, and the right to compensation for damages in the event that such proceedings have been done without the criminal proceedings proving that such a claim corresponds to the truth. The ban on hate speech, we've talked a lot about it, it's going through like our civilization obligation, it's strongly integrated into this law and it makes it more democratic and more European. The protection of children - it will welcome all political parties; banning the exposure of pornographic content is something we already have in all civilized countries and what we should also adhere to; protection from unsuspecting, is often present and very widespread in our kiosks, defined by this law and improves the general civil atmosphere in our society. The right to correction is defined by this law; the right to publish information on the outcome of the criminal proceedings is also; the compensation for those persons who have been damaged by the publication of certain information in public messages, from which material or immaterial damage directly arises, it is absolutely not new, it is not only provided for by this law, but also by our civil legislation. Our impression, therefore, is that the impression of the Parliament club DOS - Serbia's Reform, that the rights and freedoms of the public were extremely well balanced with the protection of the freedom and rights of citizens, guaranteed by the Constitution, and therefore the DOS parliamentary club - Serbia's reform will vote for this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-15-0.u28502	Are any of the other representatives of the parliamentary groups answering for a word? The word is from MP Zoran Cirkovic, president of the "New Serbia" parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-15-0.u28503	Madam President, Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, after the abolition of the previous Rigid Public Information Act, we have had a legal vacuum in these two years and I am pleased that the new public information law has finally come to the agenda. It is not good that it is brought in circumstances of emergency, I agree with previous speakers, it is simply restrictive, because if we talk about public freedoms then it is not good to pass such a law in circumstances where it cannot be applied. Generally speaking, this law is good. It introduces institutes and solutions compatible with some European standards. Speaking simply as a consumer of public information, I found some things I could critically look back on. I'm going to give them a taxicab, of course, with the belief that this list is not final, but also with the hope that it's well complete. The number of objections is small enough and I'm going to say about it. Let's say, in Article 30, we talk about the editorial concept of a public note and then I ask: who determines the consent of journalists' opinions with an editorial concept and who arbitrations in the event of a dispute. In Article 37, there are taxing five reasons why certain ideas and information are prohibited and sexual commitment is the fifth reason. I don't think the list is final and what about those who are sexually undetermined. The gardeners of non-classified politics know that there have been classy and unclassified and I admit that in this matter I am a total layman, but there are, of course, people who can judge it metrically. In Article 39(1), it is said that information is part of an objective journalistic report and I ask the question - who determines the intentions and objectivity. In Article 41, we are talking about banning the presentation of printed things with pornographic content. Of course I agree, it should be banned, but not only printed, but also when pornographic content is placed on other media. Indeed, in order to make a constructive proposal in this matter, I suggest to the Government that it would be good to do so immediately after the entry into force of this law v.d. Serbia's president abolishes the state of emergency on a proposal from the government of the Republic of Serbia, as this would indeed be an act of goodwill by the authorities, as the law can only be applied in a mile which is not burdened by an emergency. I'm doing it for one more reason. About that date would have coincided with the 40th since the death, that is, the men's murder of the Prime Minister. I point out this as a significant thing because the late Prime Minister Djindjic is buried in a Christian ritual. According to the Christian ritual, it is 40 days of mandatory mourning, so that the state of emergency may also coincide with the day of the 40th. That day is falling 21 this month. By the way, this Christian ritual was enriched by the wonderful word of His High Priesty of Amphilochy Radovic. Once again, I share my satisfaction with the dictionary, speaking of him as a politician, he also spoke of this spiritual aspect very nicely, exalted, and I am truly sorry if there are some members of the government who did not like it. In any case, to return to the subject, although I do not think I have come out, I consider a good proposal, which the government will, of course, adopt, that the moment this law enters into force in accordance with the last member of the law that day and the state of emergency ceases.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-15-0.u28504	Are any of the other representatives or presidents of the parliamentary groups answering for a word? No, I don't. ) Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia Mr. Zarko Korac reported on the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-15-0.u28505	I wanted to answer a few questions here, and a clearer answer can be obtained by reading more carefully the bill itself. The question of Article 3 has been asked here. - mandatory press attention. I must say, that provision protects the press. So this provision was made to protect the journalist. I want to read to you what is said here: "The reporter and the responsible editor of the public record are obliged to check its origin, truth and completeness before publishing the information that contains the information about a particular event, appearance or personality. "You will all agree with me that the journalist must check what he will publish. Attention appropriate to circumstances means that it is not one thing to work in daily newspapers, the other in Sunday newspapers, and the third in the monthbook or six months. If he has to react urgently, and as you know no one reads the paper since yesterday, then it must be appreciated that the journalist often didn't have enough time. That doesn't mean he shouldn't have checked, but sometimes simply because of the circumstances he didn't have enough time and then it can be regarded as a real, life-threatening environment that limits him. He has to do his job in the public interest. So it's basically the protection of journalists. Article 9 is also listed here. Many are surprised, and I think this is the fluid of a democratic society, i.e. the position of national and political operators. I'm surprised the messenger mentions it. This is something that should be protested by someone in power, because this limits him to the practical right of privacy. That means if you're in a public function, you can't expect to be as protected as a private person. I think you'll agree with me that the public has the right to ask more questions to people in a public position, but we can't define all these circumstances. So here it is said that this is limited to the relatively legitimate interest of the public in any particular case. The question is, what is the appropriate public interest? If necessary, they will appreciate the court, but in principle it is not protected by the public function holder from the issue. In the press debates, someone asked a question, if the president of a party misbehaves in the pub, whether the journalist has the right to conduct the public. He does, because he has a greater responsibility and the public has a greater legitimate interest, but we cannot standardize and write all situations in law. So we're giving a general provision. I have to tell you gentlemen that I'm not a lawyer, here in this courtroom there are lawyers and there are very serious professors of law school, I'm just answering as someone who's not an expert on legal science, and you have such general provisions in other laws. It's called the necessary defense; you won't define every case when there's a necessary defense. So here it's a relatively legitimate interest, and many times you're going to ask that question. It cannot be defined differently by the general provision, there will be judicial practice and certain solutions that will determine this with us, and this law for the first time ends with times when the public function holder was more protected than the individual citizens, so you had those provisions to guard the character and the work, etc. It's gone. On the contrary, whoever wants to deal with public affairs should be prepared to ask more questions, of course not infinitely many questions. And it has some degree of privacy and protection, but it will certainly be defined in practice. And finally, there was a question about a member of the 44th -- what does it mean that a person's behavior has given cause for publishing information? That's exactly what I said. Take care of your behavior, because the public has the right to know. In some countries public office holders are almost completely unprotected and this only shows one more thing - that many people are not ready for public functions, since they are not aware, as they see privileges, huge responsibilities. In terms of information, public officials have fewer rights to be protected. A question has been asked here for Minister Lecic. I want to apologize for him. Minister Lecic, it can be easily checked, today in Sremski Karlovci, he apologizes to you. I really missed it. Well, it's his duty to be here, and since he's in Sremski Karlovci (he's got the Sremski Karlovci Protection Committee) and he apologized, I think he'll be in the O.R. this afternoon, as soon as it's over. Here, a colleague on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group asked a question about the assessment of the previous law. In our assessment, we did not dispute the legality of the law. No one here said it was illegal. We have critically referred to it, it is our right; and to the question - whether someone will refer to that law, I answer: probably one day, maybe tomorrow; everyone has the right to speak critically or affirmatively about the laws passed. When asked here several times by counterpart Mihajlov of the DSS, who is the final author of this law - it is the Government of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. the Ministry of Culture and Media, behind this proposal. On your question who completed it - we in the Government, in consultation with a whole series of ministries, such as the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of State and Local Self-Government, the Ministry of Information, that is, then for information, and now for culture and the media. In other words, the basic skeleton and most of it was done by this task force, but the government eventually completed it and added some provisions. Some journalists from the task force say they disagree. The final word, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is that you give as a National Assembly. Neither do I, nor does any journalist, you decide on behalf of the Republic of Serbia, on behalf of its citizens who chose you, whether it is in line with what Serbia expects or not. Whether or not someone agrees - there are journalists who agree extremely with this law. So I can't make a law with which everyone's consent, such a law hasn't been created in history yet. And finally, it says here that journalists are only protected by one member. Please read the speakers carefully and look at the spirit of this law. Here journalists are protected for the first time in many more ways than they have been protected so far. I gave you an example of Article 3; it depends on how you read it. If you say - attention appropriate to circumstances, a journalist may be called upon to give information within an hour, he did not have time to check it. He'll show as much as he could in an hour, he couldn't make a study with 50 people; is that true. And it's basically his protection. You might say that here is said -- one member, maybe two members are explicitly saying that, but in other members, it's also there. And just this, there's a hate speech here. I don't know what bothers anyone, verbally, in words, or in what I would call meaning; if in terms of it, then I express a deep disagreement, but if this is a structure (the word structure is not Serbian again), some part of the spirit of Serbian language, I can possibly invite you to find a better solution, but this has already appeared in us and other languages as a hate speech. It's used as a set of two words, as a term, and I have to say there's no particular reason to introduce something else, because it's recognizable and it's practically translated into different languages. This is used today in Europe and everywhere in the world, not just in Europe, that's what's said here, that's a whole series of prejudices that are inadmissible and here it's said that this is about certain discrimination. I don't think there are any men in this room who would support that kind of racial, religious or ethnic discrimination. That's totally inadmissible. So, no one's even stood up here, let me say it right now, for that. I didn't quite understand the meaning. Maybe I'll see later. And to the very end, it is true that at this point in Serbia there is a decision on the state of emergency. Dear People's MPs, I ask you to consider why this state of emergency has been introduced. What's important is that the public is not excluded from this session, and as far as I'm concerned, I'd like this to be broadcast directly by television, but these circumstances are currently in the country. As for the government and I personally, I wish the citizens of Serbia could follow this debate. It's not about me personally, as a man, I have no reason to be ashamed of this proposal and I am prepared to defend this law. I said, it's not an ideal law. There's always something that can be added, complemented and changed. So these are the consequences of the circumstances in which we are. I am sure that in the most recent time of this situation, this law will change, and I am sure that this law will begin at that very moment in the full sense that it will be realized, provided that you, of course, adopt it. I'd just like to say, for all the other objections addressed to editorial policy, please take another look at this law. He is now obliging carriers in the field of information, meaning journalists, editors, editors-in-chiefs, that they must freely inform, in the interest of the public. When asked - what is in the public interest, it is that no private interests are represented, because there is that in us. I'm sorry, there are some TV stations, there are some media that represent private and group interests, not public interest. Don't pretend we don't already have it in Serbia, and there will be much more, unfortunately. Therefore, this law clearly states that information should be in the public interest, not an individual, his family or some group. So, all in all, I thank you for really serious reading this law and, of course, with great interest, I will look at what you have pointed to. I see over 80 amendments have been filed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-15-0.u28506	We move to a debate in the order of the Members of the People's Parliament. The first registered speaker is MP Svetlana Stojanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-15-0.u28507	Dear People's MPs, the language written by the proposal for a law on public information is almost incomprehensible. I don't mean any language purgatory, I don't even mean the use of aliens or spelling mistakes. In the text of this law, the thought is often completely unclear. What is written in the text of the law is often the opposite of what the writer of the law, apparently, meant to say. I shall state only one example (Article 33): "The professional association of journalists has a legal interest in mixing in the working dispute launched by a member of the association (so now it says in the text), unless it is opposed." I guess what he meant was "unless he objected to it, when he didn't agree to it." We have submitted such a technical amendment, and we will no longer explain it. As for hate speech, of course nobody from the DSS is against protection, or the fight against discrimination, etc. We only suggest a technical amendment, to remove the quotes from the hate speech, because that means the opposite of what is the usual meaning of that word. Most of the proposal for a law on public information concerns the case itself in case of a right to appeal. I cite headlines above the members: "The urgency of the court proceedings; the main debate in the procedure for publication of the response; the main debate in the procedure for publication of the correction; the decision-making and judgment; the appeal and the motion to repeat the procedure for publication of the response; the amendment of the editor responsible after the verdict" etc. It was set up in amazing detail regulated by a law governing litigation. Certainly, much fewer members were sufficient to determine the type of litigation procedure appropriate to the Public Information Act. Penalties also have a lot of eight; it's a good thing they're all fines, which aren't prisons. We find some punishments too high, and the range seems a little too small. We didn't want to put amendments here either. As far as the section is concerned - The principle of equality of information and answers, or corrections - for the DSS is not disputed that anyone who has a feeling that a lie has been told about him personally or that his honor is violated has the right to correction. It could have been said extremely simply, perhaps only in one member -- it has the right to at the same place in the list, in the same length of the text, in the same show, etc. will be published by his reply. This proposal further unnecessarily enters into details that try to predict all possible situations that can arise in life: and if the information is published in the below, and if the show or the message ceases to come out, and if the editor-in-chief is changed, etc. Excessive entanglement in particular, in fact, clouded the basic meaning. In article 51, in the publication of an answer, it is given for the right and that instead of the dead, his relatives, or even the institution where he worked, may give consent to the disclosure of the information. Seems a little excessive to me. In this abundance of situations where there is a right to appeal, or correction, it is mentioned in Article 52: "If the editor responsible is changed after the action has been brought, and the prosecutor does not change the suit until the main hearing is concluded, the court rejects the suit". This is contrary to the intensity of the law; why is it that this man, simply because of the fact that the editor-in-chief has changed, has no right to press charges? Why isn't the new editor-in-chief responsible? If we'd gone into all these details, the amendments wouldn't have ended. For example, the impression, which of course must exist, is also dedicated to too much space. All that I've said so far can be considered formal or petty remarks. To go back to the essence of what this law needs to regulate, which is to ensure freedom of public expression, create conditions for making different views and opinions, enable journalists to come to all the necessary information and protect journalists from the hierarchies of editors or the interest of the public record they write about. The least part of the law is dedicated to that. Many members, from 46th to 77th, therefore 31st members are dedicated to the rights of those who claim that the public record of them is false or that their reputation or honor have been violated, while the rights of journalists are dedicated to one member, as Dejan Mihajlov said. In the section that reads - Journalists' right to present information and opinions and to refuse to execute orders - there is only Article 30, and that member, in our opinion, protects the journalist upside down. I'll read it, and it was already about that member. "The reporter cannot stop working relations because of an opinion expressed in the public opinion in which he is employed, unless the opinion contradicts the editorial concept of the vote." So it's enough for the editor or owner to claim that the journalist's opinion contradicts his concept, and the editor is the only one who has the power to tell him what his editorial concept is, and the owner has read what his interest is and the journalist will suffer the adverse consequences, even when he publishes the true information. There's the DSS's first essential amendment. We propose that the law on public information primarily creates conditions for journalists for smooth work, in order for journalists to allow us - citizens - to have information on the basis of which we can independently judge public affairs and other matters of public interest. When that amendment comes, we'll explain it in more detail. The second essential amendment is this on the availability of information. So, we propose that in section - Informing about matters of interest for the public, after Article 4, Article 4a, if adopted, becomes a Article 5, and obliges the state institutions, authorities of local self-government and public enterprises to make all information available to journalists about their work, provided that they are not a state secret. This information must be made available to all public messages equally. I have seen that several MPs have proposed a similar or almost identical amendment. We care very much about another amendment, to allow the special law to create a news agency as a state public service. "The right to establish public texts has all domestic and foreign private and physical faces." That right only doesn't have our own country. We accept European standards that there are no state newspapers, but only pro-government, but the state news agency has 15 European countries: Austria, Spain, Portugal, Greece, Russia, France (AFP is 37% on the state budget), the Czech Republic, Hungary, Romania, Bulgaria, Albania and the former Yugoslav republics -- Slovenia, Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Republika Srpska and Macedonia. It is only when, with a lot of effort and a number of times, the proposal for a law on public information, and especially when its reasoning is read, it can be concluded that this is an imperfect but modern law and that it contains a hint of what the information law needs to be. The Democratic Party of Serbia shares the general set-up of this law, stated in an explanation: that public information is free and that censorship is not subject to censorship; secondly, that violations of freedom of public information are decided exclusively by the court. However, journalists bear great professional responsibility for forming public opinion. The DSS regrets that, relatively to that responsibility, the rights of journalists are underprotected. The DSS will vote for principle.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-15-0.u28508	The word has a folk MP Milos Todorovic, followed by MP Branislav Grubaski.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-15-0.u28509	Dear Mrs. Komic, dear gentlemen and ladies of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, before I take a brief look at the proposal for an information law, I would like to ask you to really inform me why we are wasting so much time in the afternoon and afternoon of the session and why we have to continue to work on the day it doesn't work, why we combine the points that we can't, because they're not from the same promoter, they don't have any touch points. You simply do not allow the MP to have time to prepare properly for such an important bill. Please, if possible, let's make it right together here, because this really doesn't make any sense anymore, that we lose at least three hours each day. Today we need to consider less, and more to adopt a law on public information, by emergency procedure. All in a state of emergency. It would be for the whole world's wonder unseen, but for us, it seems normal. I only hope that the distinguished Duško Kovacevic will come forward, that this absurd will be worthy of his feather and some new Balkan spy or professional. Apparently, some new National Assembly, which will be established after some new elections, will only have to repeal laws and regulations adopted in an emergency state and bring new normal laws. The proposal for a law on public information is initially full of free information without censorship, but already in article 31 in the formulation of a journalist's secret, the journalist is required to disclose information related to the source of information, provided that these data relate to a criminal offence for which a prison sentence of at least five years has been threatened. Practically, the journalist will be obliged to reveal all his sources of information. As we have been informed these days, that the Serbian MUP has begun to do its job properly, why should journalists then reveal their sources of such criminal acts for which a five-year prison sentence is scheduled, and this should be done by the MUP, and allow journalists to work as well as the world-wide and have a secret source of information as before, and do not get caught up in the provision of one of their orientation and professional education. In practice, such a provision will effectively abolish freedom of public information and introduce censorship and, worst possible for the journalist, self-censorship at a small door. The over-emphasised chapter eight, which regulates the rights of persons, which is related to information, has as many as 48 members, which is more than half the law, suggests to journalists a great deal of caution in the work that will necessarily become a drastic self-censor and significantly limit freedom of information. Although the Soviet Union is an opposition party that does not support the government and looks forward to new elections, and the new National Assembly and the new Government, I must nevertheless be objective and admit that I look forward to the fact that the draft law has left out infamous provisions on the violation of the reputation of legal and physical persons, as well as provisions on the dragon's criminal punishment after the brief procedure of political opponents, which we all had at the end of the last century, has not been mentioned, has not returned. I thank you for your attention, but I really am not able to talk about the law when I have so little time to study it, and I really ask you to allow the MPs to have more time in the future, especially when it comes to such an important law, to process it properly and to carry out their opinion in a good way.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-15-0.u28510	The word is given by MP Branislav Grubaski, followed by National MP Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-15-0.u28511	I would like to begin by saying that we from the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina welcome and support the public information law. We believe that a regulated media space is necessary in Serbia, not only in order to get closer to European standards and thus to entering the European Union, but also because it is necessary to have all areas of public and private life regulated in order to democratisation our society, and especially in the field of media as one of the basic links in the functioning of every society. As already mentioned, the law on public information ahead of us that needs to be adopted has long been expected, but has long been developed. It is produced as a fruit of two expert groups, one made up of legal ones, and the other of experts from the very field of public information-NUNS, the Media Centre, the Belgrade Centre and the like. We in LSV support the determination and determination to define and regulate the sphere of public information. We also welcome this proposal for a law on public information specifically, because we believe that it is high-level in line with European standards, and has been positively assessed both by foreign and domestic expert circles, OSCE, AEM and the like. The draft public information law places an emphasis on citizens' rights to public information, thus regulating the rights and obligations of participants in public information. Public information is defined as free and in the public interest; as such, censorship or any form of monopoly is not subject to censorship. The concept of public texts has been defined and their distribution has been arranged. The whole bill is based on the principle of freedom of public information. We particularly welcome the decision to deetatise the media space in Serbia, to introduce market principles. As you have already noticed, the LSV has submitted two amendments to the bill. One refers to the length of the public record keeping, we believe that the deadlines for temporary keeping of the public record in order to control and suppress piracy from 30 and 60 days, respectively, should be increased to 90 days. In our country, along with a large number of written works about 1,000 electronic media. We believe that the inconsistency of institutions for the implementation of broadcasting laws, as well as other media laws, for more effective monitoring, requires a longer time period of storage of materials. Our second amendment concerns the authorities (Article 90) responsible for implementing this law. Article 19. The 2002 Law laying down certain competences of the AP has been regulated by the area of public information in the territory of an autonomous province, and it is necessary to supplement the proposed member in order to bring the existing law into line. I just remind myself, when the Law on Broadcasting was passed, I asked for higher powers to be given to the province administration, the Regional Secretariat for Information and the Executive Council; then I may have used too strong an expression about the denaciation of media space, which would be better done if it fell under the control of the province. I repeat, I claim that such damages and contamination of the media area would not have happened if the province had more jurisdiction than information. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-15-0.u28512	The word is a folk letter from Natasa Jovanovic, and after it is the people's messenger Vukosav Tomašević.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-15-0.u28513	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in the history of Serbian information, it must be recognised today by many journalists who could not agree first with the draft, and then with the law passed by the assembly majority with 4/5 MPs in 1998, there was no better public information law than was proposed by the law at the time Alexander Vukic was Minister of Information in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. That this shows the fact back two and a half years since you've been in power, that the full freedom of public information that was not at that stage that the Serbian Radical Party has been pushing backwards for 12 years, and that when the law proposed by Mr. Vukic, for the simple reason that we as part of the coalition, its minority partner, were not able to fully affirm him as he stands. However, Mr Korać, who has now left, said that we have seriously read the law and submitted to it, and in this is preceded by our parliamentary group, a large number of amendments, and that is true, but the law is not only unserious, but it does not only want to improve freedom of public information, but it will make the situation and the media picture in Serbia, which today is the blackest possible, even worse, as our people say - and there are blacks. In particular, this was expressed in the circumstances under which you introduced the so - called so - called “species. ” The state of emergency, where both Mr. Korać and Branislav Lecic --centarly the minister, in addition to the competence for culture, and for the media, even though it is not understood at all, and as far as this is not understood, we will understand the afternoon when he comes, because he has to defend his position against a bunch of amendments; and that the SRS promoter of professional, objective and independent journalism in Serbia has shown not only this 1998 law - our political opponents, for no great reason and arguments attacked, without sufficient knowledge, because the fact that they have said in their performances that some printed or electronic media is sad, which is entirely incorrect, but has launched an indictment, or misapplication for that medium, speaks sufficiently of their ignorance. If we also wanted as an SRS to protect the freedoms and rights of man and citizen, the law was also passed, so to the vast majority of the congregation in 1998. But we couldn't make peace with the fact, and we're going to fight to the end that political opponents are in the worst possible way muddled by means of public information, that a bunch of lies, untrues, the worst possible misinformation about individuals, about members of their families, is out in public. What characterizes the period behind us, first two and a half years after the DOS has been in power, and then for the past month, when the leaders of the long-decomposed DOS appear on central state television nights, enough is said not only that there will be no objective public information, but they would have to be most strictly sanctioned under Article 2. It's a bill of law. That Article 2 says no one can interfere with the flow of information. But not only is this done, but from day to day attacks, primarily directed at the SRS and its leaders, the entire Serbian public is misinformed. What happened last week, it's unrecorded so far in your media dictatorship. Of course, through the pressures of DOS leaders and their direct management of information emissions on central state television, the public is deceived year by year under your authority. The call to the director of TV Tristenik, who followed the visit of Mr Tomislav Nikolic, and I will remind you that six months before that the SRS and its leaders could not visit on any television, and the request by Minister Lecic to deliver a tape of content of the show, speaks enough in favour of the fact that the worst dictatorship is in place. Not just that. Mr Tomislav Nikolic is in a book he published, which is called "Through the Media Dark", most warmly recommended, he says a lot about the SRS being back 12 years in favour of freedom of public information. We have never, on any central state television, been able to say, even though today we have and have always had huge support for the electoral body, what we think about public information, about freedom of the media and how they speak true and true Democrats who know what the spirit of parliamentary democracy is. This is how you say, to promote, and above all Mr. Korać, a law that will make full and more black media darkness, it is pointless for the simple reason that, unlike us, even though you criticised the law adopted in 1998, today you have a falsified, false congregation majority, so that this law will also be illegal, except that it will reverse the full public information and the entire sphere of public information in our country.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-15-0.u28514	The People's Messenger Vukosav Tomašević has the word, and then the National MP Zoran R. Angelkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-15-0.u28515	Dear colleagues, it is almost impossible to start any serious debate on this issue without pointing to the importance of public information rights and freedoms in the field and in the media sphere in relation to the degree of democracy in a society. Since it has already been discussed by several predecessors in the discussion, I will not repeat what has been said. I don't think I'm going to go too far if I say that in modern society, in modern democracies, the media factor that articulates the degree of democracy in one society. So, on the one hand, we can have all the other political and civil freedoms and rights, if we do not have free media and if the area of the media sphere is not liberally regulated, then not all the other rights and freedoms can be rightly articulated for a simple reason because the media are those intermediaries among the key factors of political life; therefore, political parties on the one hand and other public opinion. As a result, it is impossible not to repeat what has already been said in the debate, which is an absurd situation that this law on public information, one of the key system laws that should raise this degree of democracy in our society, is being passed under the conditions of emergency. Not so much of a formal emergency, it may not in itself be something that would be a distraction, as hard as censorship and one-mindedness as in the media of Serbia have not existed, I have thought since Broz's time. It cannot and will not serve this parliament, nor this government, as the legislator of the law, which is passed under such circumstances. While we've been waiting for two years and a little more on this bill, I think we could wait for the state of emergency to be lifted and then we can pass this law, a team before even some of the key provisions of this law, such as the provision of Article 2 on the ban on censorship, can't be applied if such practice, the state of emergency and this treatment of the media in Serbia, are not lifted in the next ten days. Vice President Koraq is out of the O.R. and I'm sorry he's not here. He pointed to one great truth. He said the government is a real proponent of this law and it's very important. In fact, Vice-President Korać admitted who is responsible for Serbia's being here for some 27-28 months since the change in government had no public information law. We all know that one of the key promises of the current government in both campaigns in 2000 was the passing of adequate laws from the media sphere, but for a long time these laws have been gone. So I don't think it was necessary to wait from somewhere in January 2000-2001 to this day to pass this law, as there was no need to wait until last summer to pass the Law on Broadcasting, which, by the way, is not applicable until today. There's no reason we still don't have the telecommunications law. There's no reason there's still no law on the availability of public information. So this complete package of media laws had to be passed much earlier, but at the beginning of this Parliament's work. Exceptional responsibility for not having happened was borne by the government of the Republic of Serbia, and that Mr. Korac acknowledged with honor and correctness for a moment. It cannot transfer the ball to any working groups, working bodies, legal experts, journalists, who in the meantime tried to make such or such a version of the law. It's just that the government is a law enforcement officer so far, and it had to be done sooner. When the technical law writes, that's another thing. Of course, the government knowingly did not want to regulate this area, just to keep the media in Serbia under control. And if media laws were passed in time, including the law on public information, it could not, for example, happen that the fist of propaganda of Slobodan Milosevic's regime becomes a striking fist of propaganda of the current government of the Republic of Serbia. Of course, I mean Pink TV. But with all this, this area better still be regulated. So it's better than no law. As we are already considering such a law, I think we should point out some shortcomings, i.e. the shortcomings of this law, which are also presented in the public debate on the proposal and draft of this law, both in the general public and in the professional press circles. First of all, I think this law gives little freedom to the media and too much freedom to the citizens. Someone said in a public debate, and I'm going to quote it, that this law in some way represents a small criminal code against journalism, that this is a law on the rights of citizens who want to enter the newspaper and prosecute journalists. That's quite true, given that more than half of the members of this law are actually instructions for the court's work when a citizen sues the newspaper, or journalists. The law protects citizens' rights in a good way, but there is no fundamental protection for media and journalists' rights, nor does it have the essential assumptions of the innocence of journalists. One member defines the presumption of the innocence of journalists, and 50 members regulate the exorcision of media and journalists' guilt. There is a discrepancy between protecting citizens' rights, on the one hand, compared to one small level of protection for journalists, media and editorials, on the other. I think there's a whole chapter missing about the rights and obligations of journalists, editors and editorials. I'm a journalist. I don't know if I'm the only one in this assembly. I know that for 10 or 15 years now, through all the debates on the public information law, this area, the rights and obligations of journalists, is left to regulate through the press code, which needs to be done by the Association, or the Association of Journalists, because there are more. There's no code for all this time. Our journalists' associations, unfortunately, are unable to make this and such code and make it socially valid and in practice applicable. Until that happens, that area should be regulated through the law. The law had to contain a special chapter on the availability of public information, in a situation where we do not have such a law. True, yesterday on the Committee on Culture and Media, we heard a promise from the Deputy Prime Minister that this law would come before the Assembly very soon. I think that with a few members, at least the last chapter, it had to be regulated through this law, even if it was done by the time the relevant law on the availability of public information was passed. Finally, I will point to two more absurdities in this law and we from the Democratic Party of Serbia have tried to remove them through the amendments. We hope that by accepting our amendments, these absurdities from the law will disappear. One thing is that this law allows the foreign state to be the founder and owner of the media in Serbia without allowing the state of Serbia. In this way, Serbia becomes one of the few serious countries in the world that is forbidden to be the founder of the media. Please, look at the legislation of other developed democratic countries, you have no explicit ban on the state to be the founder of the media, as this law has. I don't think that's right, and it needs to be changed. The Democratic Party of Serbia is in favour of privatisation, of capitalism, we are in favour of abolishing state and social property, but there should be some measure in all of this, and, in the case of a state agency, it should be measured. Why stand in line for states that give up their state agencies? Finally, the law should amend the provision that, within one year of the adoption of this law, all local media that are mostly financed from public incomes are shut down. I don't think it's a good thing it's short notice. That's why we asked for an amendment to extend. If this happens, we will shut down most of the local newspapers in Serbia. We will shut them down for reasons that in most local communities, in most municipalities in Serbia, there are no economic conditions at the moment that newspapers can be printed under market conditions. If we don't have a certain kind of grant from public income, that newspaper will be abolished very soon. In these environments, this paper is not just an informative tool in terms of political information, in terms of daily information; it is very often I dare say, cultural institutions in these environments, or the only chroniclers of overall, not just political, social life. I don't think you should be allowed to put those media out. In a way, this deadline should be extended a little bit, or a more flexible provision on the possibility of at least partially financing from public revenues, in order to wait for some better economic time for Serbia and the variant for local newspapers to survive under market conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-15-0.u28516	The word has been given by MP Zoran R. Angelkovic, after which, MP Vladimir Andric.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-15-0.u28517	Ladies and gentlemen, it is important that the information law comes to the agenda, but it is much more important that it comes before the citizens of Serbia. I don't understand why the Serbian government is in such a hurry, that several key laws of interest for Serbian citizens are adopted during the state of emergency and without public presence. Don't convince me, last time you tried to convince me, that this is a public session, that everything in the media is here. Of course, that's not true. You've made sure of that yourself on television screens and press columns. Therefore, these are objectively closed sessions, since there is no television transmission. During that time period, several key laws are passed, several capital laws concerning Serbian citizens, which must be informed about the views of different political options and thus the whole of the law. But that's the question of the story, last time I started it, about transparency and about the need to treat these issues at the Assembly sessions until there's no television transmission. Here is Vice President Korać, in charge of information, for the area, and we have seen, for the last month and a half, he was most engaged in the field of information. He was informed of everything and reported it to the public daily, etc. He wonders why there's no television transmission, because, my God, he's interested in having television transmissions and the court is telling the public about this law. Who else is supposed to bring it? We MPs have not wondered whether there will be any public transfers of the Assembly or whether there will be no transfers. Who manages the country, who manages this information, who has the right to provide information or who has no right to give information on certain issues? That's what this is about. Why do I say that? Because there is something in this law called further discrimination against the corresponding number of media. I absolutely agree, as well as the SPS, with the part of the bill, that for the next 12 months there are local media owned by state or public enterprises, which are financed from the economy. Why is that? Just for the fact that the local media is serving you for a few community officials, and the people are paying for everything. So the people on the territory of that municipality are paying local media. No local medium costs less than 20 or 30 million. The picture is taken by the president of the municipality and by the chairman of the executive board, and when a representative or committee of the political party in the assembly is due to say a position must pay 30-40 thousand dinars in order to be on TV for an hour. Therefore, on the one hand, the media is financed by citizens, and on the other hand, if someone wants to say their political position, which was at the municipality's assembly, it must pay 30,000 dinars to come and say so, but the president of the municipality has the right to say so only. Based on what? The media can be public. That's what it's supposed to say here. Of course, then time must be shared, as far as I can, based on the mood of the electoral body in that environment, to have space on such local media. You'll say, that's how it was when we were in power - the former regime. You've been three years. Change that. I have an obligation to criticise this present time, because you're criticizing enough past, so I don't have to deal with it. So here is now one thing in contradiction with the law we passed a few months ago, where it is said that a transformation of the media that is owned by the state, local self-government, public enterprises will be carried out within four years. What's older now? Is this law older or that law that speaks of transformation, or these 12 months is about new voices, new media, new newspapers, or what would be done on the territory of the local community? It has not been defined and I think it is necessary to define that these two members in these two laws would not be in contradiction. The second thing, in some ways, is not touched enough, in the previous two years the media has been divided in the following way: several media deals primarily with the opposition's political parties and some individual officials, but only as individuals, not touching the authorities, while the authorities and the opposition recognise that a significant number of media deals with the ordered, paid texts and that a significant number of texts belong to them. That's what the state is saying now, even talking about some media, about orderers, about those who paid. So it's not about my political position, it's about the Bureau of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which now states that it was about some texts. Who can pay for that? They can strong political groups, strong crime groups, they can strong financial lobbys and they can buy, conditionally speaking, power. Are the media protected from this, is this law for them, and are those individuals protected from the accuracy of information? Secondly, is the journalist protected from accessing information? Here it is said that the availability of information is the same. However, whether all journalists or all media are at the same level, if the Republic of Serbia's Bureau makes a briefing and invites only the relevant journalists or the relevant media to report that information. Is the state entitled to protect or better say that it chooses journalists to make briefings with? Do the state or government have the right to choose the media to be accredited for a press conference? This is not limited here and therefore, discrimination remains between journalists, and thus between the media. It has to be said here that the state has no right to conceal information, that it cannot ban anyone or better say it cannot not issue accreditation for the shampoo conference, and when I say state, I mean local self-government, regional and republic. For now, it is possible, and these days you have a lot of information saying in a number of media -- from confidential sources of the government of the Republic of Serbia. It is not the resourcefulness of journalists, but it is a matter of the fact that the Serbian government wants a number of media to stretch and thus only communicates that information, and the other part of the media simply does not have that information. In that sense, the media is not sufficiently protected here, more specifically, media equality is not guaranteed. There are now 19 reasons for not publishing the deficit. You can always find one reason not to publish the denial. However, who is there again in a difficult position? They're in a difficult public situation again, because it's possible to attack them, and these others can't, they have to be paid, they have to be signed, they have to be asked. But when it comes to these others, let's take an example of whether all the information is available to the press again? Is there an obligation for our MPs to announce the media's position, to tell a journalist when we come out of the political position, or do we have the right to choose which media to say it or not? First of all, it's about those media criticizing the government, and now you're going to tell me that we did the same thing, and we made a mistake because we didn't go to Studio B. Now it's even worse. Now on some media, a state official won't show up at all. Does he have a right? He has no right, he is a state official, the state has chosen him, and when television, radio station, newspapers invite him to give an interview on political stance, on the law on informing Minister Lecic or Korac, they must respond. Is that what this law is about? There is no and this means that there is a further stretching of appropriate information tools, which will provide adequate information that is not available. Secondly, we have been talking here for days and over the past law on the obligation of state authorities and public enterprises to the availability of information, that when a journalist finds out the relevant information, Mr Djelic mentioned the oil mafia, he even mentioned some names, and now the journalist wants to trace it to the oil industry, to those people who are mentioned and to ask for documentation, to examine what it is. Under this law, he has no right to do so and is not allowed to do so. How we have provided journalists with the right to be available to the truth and to give the public this true information. That's what this is about, and I think it's missing in this law, if we want to make a really good law. It can be a foreigner, it's not a dispute, but it's something else: we now have media inequality on a number of grounds and in a financial sense, whether someone lives or doesn't live on the market. What are the media that are now living off donations from abroad, from other donations, from some political groups or the like, which are media that live on the market. This assembly has an obligation to create the basis for all media to live only and exclusively on the market, to depend on it, not on whether the government will call them to briefing or not, whether some NGO will give them money or not. That's not what this law, as it was before, provided.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-15-0.u28518	The word has been given by MP Vladimir Andric, followed by MP Dragica Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-15-0.u28519	The Honorable Presidency, honourable MPs, the proposal for a law on public information, which is today ahead of us, is a step towards seducing order in the media sphere. It guarantees freedom to share information without State interference, creates conditions for professional journalism, to a significant extent in line with the European Convention. The principles of public information, such as freedom of public information, the obligation of professional attention, the ban on each monopoly, the special support for people with disabilities, as well as the votes in the languages of national minorities, represent solutions also discussed by representatives of the Council of Europe. The Democratic Party of Serbia will vote in favour of this proposal in principle, although we are not in agreement with all the solutions and that is why we have submitted certain amendments. The law could have been shorter and less detailed. Many of these solutions could be regulated by the code. The punishments for the media are high. The current government has been avoiding for two years to pass basic media laws despite pressures from the European Union and international factors. The Law on Broadcasting has been approved for a year and a half, and seven months after adoption, the Republic Broadcasting Agency, or its advice, was to be formed. The Telecommunications Act, as well as the law on free access to information of public importance, when it will be passed we do not know. In such chaos, without the legal control of the sphere of public information, politicians as in the previous decade have made it easy to make accusations, such as involvement in the organisation of assassinations, and the media publish such statements as if they were not responsible for such transfer. In many democratic countries special slander laws have been passed. This provides the culture and ethics of public speech. It is impossible to make heavy accusations without evidence or verification. A legally unsettled area of public information corresponds to the authorities that seek to control and drag journalists and media into their political games. In developed countries, media is serving as the controllers of institutions, and in Serbia, part of the media is changing sides and is again becoming the strongest propaganda asset. The regime media therefore remain regimeal again. Of course, the media is no longer as powerless as they were two and a half years ago, but they can still be difficult to carry out their government control function.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-15-0.u28520	Dragica Radulovic, a folk MP, has the word, followed by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-15-0.u28521	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Soviet Union will not support this bill for the following reasons -- we have waited two and a half years to change the applicable 1998 Public Information Act. During that time, it was not placed in any normative frames. We've had everything and everything, chaos, and most of all political advocacy or efforts to do the most damage to a political inexperience. All this time, we have been calling for democracy and European conventions, and we have done the opposite. The principles of public information are well laid down, but further concreteisation and development throughout the law are not satisfactory. It feels like a good part was done on purpose. If so, then this law will not last long. Here are just some details, which is why we claim this: the journalists are not guaranteed freedom of opinion, just because they must rigorously submit to editorial policy, and if they do not follow it, they are losing their jobs; information from the private life of citizens is not sufficiently protected, in the event of a breach of privacy, injured their rights must be achieved by a lawsuit; it is high probability that this right will be achieved in a litigation procedure. With this bill, the right to publish answers or corrections can hardly be achieved without a court, and it is a great possibility that this right can also be achieved through litigation, thus losing any sense of purpose. To respond to the injured, it is allowed, in addition to the minimum fine, if any, that the editor makes a comment, which will reduce the importance of the response, i.e. correction. This means that the responsible editor of the public message can, with a minimum fine of 5,000 to 60,000 dinars, degrade the target person, calculated and planned. Only the adoption of the emergency procedure in the Republic of Serbia prevents its quality of production and participation of all interested political and other entities in the work. That's why the SS won't vote for the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-15-0.u28522	The word is made by the People's Messenger Milorad Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-15-0.u28523	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honesty of the promoter can be seen from an explanation. The proponent says that the reasons for the law's passing were that the previous law was bad, as the proponent explained - it was disastrous, so by coming on October 5th, December 2000, it made superhuman efforts, put the law out of force, and then in an explanation of the emergency procedure, the government itself admits that by putting the law out of force, it has brought chaos to Serbia, when it comes to information, and the direct reason for the emergency is the state of emergency. This hasn't happened in Parliament's history yet. This is the reason for someone to point out, it hasn't happened yet. I'm not saying, there may have been worse, there have been better authorities, but these are the kind of authorities Serbia has never had. I was convinced that the law, passed in 1998, had shortcomings in some of its segments, simply put, in some parts it was bad. But if he hadn't shown up, it might have been the worst, but this is the worst law. Is everything clear from the Vice-President's explanation, man is a general policy, all-knowing, from his explanation, everything is clear to us. Look, a man comes out here, and with full responsibility, he says there's no monopoly. First, the basic starting point is that there's always a monopoly state over information, it's a basic starting point. Every country has a monopoly on information. The information is basically shared in secret and public. Which are secrets - which the state, by its laws, edits this information, presents to some state bodies, some individuals, and they are not, as they would say, for wider use; means, by the very fact that they are secrets, they are already making a concession or some ban on public information funds. Public information is available to the public, the state is making a selection which is information and how it should be placed in the public; and instead of studying it a little bit, that it has some real foothold, that its explanation, it comes out here, so if it says five or six sentences that praise the European Community, the OSCE and international institutions, it expects that it will fascinate us and that we will say - here is democracy through this law. No, this law is exactly a criminal code for those people who work in public information. What's worse in this law -- which is also the protection of journalists is not clearly defined and don't tell us now that you didn't do it on purpose. Yes, gentlemen, you know well, you have experience from previous periods, that everything that is not defined can be misused in the way that at certain times corresponds to the government or state. What remains here when it comes to the protection of journalists - journalists are left to the ministry of culture and media. Well, gentlemen, at the previous session, as I recall, we adopted amendments and additions to the Ministry of the Ministry of Culture Act, where the media are added along with the Ministry of Culture, and in the description of the work of the ministry is, among other things, the control of the media. So, the minister will directly or indirectly decide what information is being verified, which information is publically interested, which he is not, and on this basis he will make a decision and criminal measures when it comes to journalists. Another thing where journalists are not protected -- you claim gentlemen that a journalist "can only publish the truth and verify information and is protected legally". No, gentlemen, he can publish the greatest truth, but because of this truth, because of disagreement with editorial policy, he can get fired by that same journalist. Because in this law, it's not defined. It's defined only in a member who says - if it fits the editorial policy of public information funds. As far as public figures are concerned, so the essence and well-being of the law is precisely to protect a person, and in this law only protects those in power, who are currently holding the lever of power, but the moment they leave power, and especially if the opposition, like us radicals, are not protected, everything can be published about them, everything can be written about them. Well, the best example is just (you're showing him) what you've been campaigning for a month now, about the latest events, you're bidding on who was involved in all of the politicians, in the first place was Vojislav Seselj. But, gentlemen, don't worry, the truth will come out and this state of emergency will pass, the real reason for this law to be passed, and then you'll be struck by the public.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-15-0.u28524	I'm setting a break and we'll continue our work at 15.00 hours. The first registered speaker is MP Tomislav Kitanovic. [[After break - 15,35]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing the session in the afternoon. Please determine if there is a quorum for work. I understand we have a quorum to work with. We are continuing the debate after applying for the word of the MPs in the principle debate on the proposal for a law on public information. The People's Messenger Tomislav Kitanovic has the word, and then the People's Messenger Branko Ruzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-15-0.u28526	There's a special interest in us from the DSS in this law. You know that the story of our unintelligence is circulating, so when we were making and putting into the procedure of this law, we paid attention and we wanted to make some of our contribution and see if that ignorance would remain or not. For example, I am one of the people who is quite uninformed, I must admit that, as one of the people who participated in the establishment of the Democratic Party and perhaps the first committee in Serbia's interior. At the time, however, I thought I was taking part in the establishment of the centre party, but later it turned out to be the party on the left. So much for your own information, and now I'm going to do something to this law. It's already been said that informing is a mirror of democracy and the state of society, that thing stands. However, it is very important that this whole information system has a feedback on social flows and social relations. That is why the fight for media interference is being fought to achieve the greatest influence in the media, to have an impact on society through the media. We had an inherited condition that wasn't something positive. The deputy minister spoke about the 1998 law. I think maybe it's more rational to go back a long time, practically go back to the last decade, where a multiparty society started to form and where the media got more important than they had in that previous one-party system. All the events and the release of media space, the release of human thought during that period, happened from necessity. The regime itself did not accept certain things because it wanted to, but because it had to, and that multiparty system and that divided media space. So it was clear that there could be no more monopolies on the media like before. There even appeared a paradoxical situation at the very beginning; based on its strength and influence on the voting body, the regime had more lufts and could give more space to other parties, so that this multiparty struggle in some way and apparently took place during that period. However, as the economic situation strained, as the country was entering an ever-increasing crisis, so was the border of the media area reduced, so we came to that 1998 law, which is not some example of democracy in the media sphere. At that time, we had a situation of the sudden growth of these media houses, private televisions, sheets, radios. We had a disorder and a media jungle situation. All cities, rarely one city in Serbia didn't get one of the TVs, as well as the radio. As the media increased, the quality criteria were reduced. On these media, less and less qualified and quality people were working, less and less people were able to meet the demands of a journalistic profession, so we also came to the point that high school students are running some shows on TV. No wonder that quality was lowered to the lowest possible extent. So there were problems, misunderstandings, conflicts, which led to the need to regulate itself at some point in time by some law. We've had a situation that, practically, wasn't regulated in this area by law, from the day the previous law was abolished to, hopefully, the adoption of this new law. I think it's necessary for a law of that kind to be passed. There was a story about a state of emergency. It was mostly a pity that the public information law was passed at a time of emergency. It's like the state of emergency is the product of happening in the country, like it's some collateral damage that's happening to make some more important things come to an end, so come on, now we're going to media blockade, we're going to end these things, and then there's no media blockade anymore. However, I think that media blockade was a goal for itself, that it was above other things, that it was primary, in the first place, that it was much more important to shut down and regulate some things than in this second area, so as soon as things were solved, then the blockades were gone. I mean, even if the regime were to be in a position to choose from its own will those things that were introduced in that state of emergency that one thing could leave still so that it would just leave that emergency blockade until further notice, which in this situation is quite appropriate to him. The law itself, which a number of people here say isn't bad, there are some positive things, some kind of harmonisation of regulations with European regulations, and it's practically in some way and the law that was needed. The form in which this law is written gives the impression of democracy and introduces a series of perhaps positive norms that should give some positive effects in this area. What I see as hidden intentions and what might prove to be bad is that in this law there seems to be some way that there remains an open door for some randomity, some arbitrary interpretations, some things where some members of this law and some areas will be able to regulate themselves according to someone's intent, that it is someone's discretionary right, so let's say in one case it applies one, and in another, the archeine. With someone, here and there, partial inaccuracies, I think they're weaker sides of this law. Perhaps it took more clarity and precision in some provisions. There were also words about the fact that this law did not protect a journalistic profession enough. There are inaccuracies, there are some members, but if you read between the lines. Now the question is whether those who apply it wants to read between the ranks or behave in their own interests. All in all, I think that, with the completion of this bill, with some minor changes, it is possible to reach a good law for a more lasting use.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-15-0.u28527	The People's MP Branko Ruzic has the word, and after him, MP Zeljko Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-15-0.u28528	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the respected presidency, the information sphere and the legislative regulation related to the sphere were one of the fields where the DOS coalition embroiled political profits during the 2000 pre-election campaign, with thunderous promises of a new so-called. the democratic law on information, right after the election victory. It is now April 2003, and the state of emergency is in place and there is no Ministry of Information, TV transmissions of assembly sessions have been lifted, and we have before us a proposal for a law on public information. This legislative proposal is not consistent, it is burdened with contradictions, volunteering and ideologically written. The promoter, in addition to being behind the regulation of the information sphere, shows no good will for this issue to be settled in accordance with standards that apply in the democratic world and oblige us to bring national legislation into line. The promoter has taken individual solutions from the legislation of certain European states, however, has done so very selectively and unsettlingly, largely prevailing with solutions representing a mix of German and Russian models. There are many negative features in this law. The provisions of this law do not define which instances have an obligation to protect the general social interest and to present to the public cultural values, the tradition of our people, educational programs that follow the process of quality raising of the young population. At the very beginning of the law, I think it is necessary to establish a category machine and give a clear definition of very problematic terms and terms such as -- similarity, hate speech, proper information, journalistic attention appropriate to circumstances and legitimate public interest. It seems that the ultimate trend, the intensities of this legislative proposal, to protect the right of the authorities to present their truth, to protect the public's owners, to prevent opposition views and to marginalise the journalistic profession to the embarrassing limits. Article 2 in the second point is said that public information is not subject to censorship, which probably implies that censorship exists and that someone should defend public information against censorship. It's a lot easier to say that there is no censorship in this sphere, but it seems to be extremely difficult for the promoter. Article 5 defines the right of a special category of persons and places members of national minorities and ethnic communities with disabled persons and disabled persons in the same basket, which is, of course, inadmissible, because members of national minorities and ethnic communities cannot possibly be defined as a special category of persons. Article 7 only speaks of a ban on monopoly in the field of public information, but no provision limits the percentage of ownership in the public ballot or in the public ballots, I think of others, which opens up a space for the creation of a monopoly. Article 10, defining the concept of a public voice, does not talk about cable television and satellite programmes, which can also fall under a kind of public voice. Foreign natural and legal persons are favored in the establishment of a public note, by having the same rights and obligations as domestic natural and legal persons. The scope of public information can also be treated freely as a resource which, under the provisions of this law, foreign investors use to obtain profits, and another issue that is very important, who will thus be the bearer of public opinion formation. Articles 16 to 24 speak of a ban on the distribution of information which may distort a democratically-trained society, but which is taught by current practice, in most cases this provision is a consequence primarily of the desire and legalisation of the state of emergency in the field of public information and unfortunately has little to do with democratic values and principles, but are already a matter of voluntary and selective interpretation which will be reflected in the restrictive and rigidity. Article 36 speaks of the presummation of innocence which prohibits a person from being identified as a criminal and guilty person before the court's decision. That, of course, sounds very nice, but in the past three years, in practice the most brutally violated this principle of presummation of innocence in the sphere of public information and without any consequences. Article 37 of the earlier law does not contain any essential newspaper, except for a floscule of hate speech, on which the proposer has been riding for three years, largely accusing his political opponents. The current developments in the state, in which the state of emergency is in place, talk about the intrinsic need to present itself in article 37, in addition to all defined belongings and commitment - of course, sexual commitment, which, by the way, is thus presented and interpreted, deviating, but of course in terms of human rights, indisputable - to necessarily add to and belong to a political and professional organisation. This, above all, is due to the introduction of a higher degree of democracy and to the prevention of the Satanization of political opponents through public information means, which now seems daily. The contradiction of this law is best reflected in Article 44, which relativises, suppresses and practically violates the right in the field of essential human rights, defined in Article 42, which refers to information from private life and personal record. Also, this law does not provide for a firm, explicit obligation to publish a denial. The provisions of this law do not define the obligation to prove the origin of money of the founders of public votes, which is otherwise a European and world standard. That is also the subject of the Eurovision Law on Private Television. I remind you, of course, that the government is currently fighting organized crime. In addition, there is a danger, given that there are no provisions governing this problem, that private television or other public messages become a propaganda means of legal or physical, foreign or domestic persons behind the founding rights of the public message. Finally, the criminal provisions of any infringements committed in this law are dragonous, unsuitable, and represent radical paradoxical progress in relation to the 1998 Information Act, which may not be called a very democratic activity, but is much clearer and more precise under defined rights and obligations, much more correct and more democratic than this bill. The transitional and final provisions did not explain how, in which way and in which legislative regulation the public vote will be entered in the register of public messages, since the adoption of this law creates a legal vacuum, which of course opens up a space for manipulations. From the above, it is clear that the SPS cannot support such a proposal for a public information law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-15-0.u28529	The word is by MP Zeljko Tomic, followed by MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-15-0.u28530	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since a lot of this has already been said, I will try only briefly to point to a few of the most important things and to the public information law. First and foremost, DSS MPs today ask: which is why this bill has not been on the agenda of our session before. Over these discussions today remains a dark shadow, bearing in mind that the proposal for an information law is being voted on at the moment Serbia is being ruled by extraordinary measures. Journalists and definitely not protected by this bill, which is witnessed by numerous reactions to our most important journalistic names. It's as if the intention is recognised that the bill promoter, according to this profession, wants to extend the emergency measures and when they cease to apply. The rights and obligations of information providers are not regulated, under the pretext that this will be considered in the law on the availability of information, so it is not clear how this issue will be treated until the law is passed, or how journalists will be released from the ballast that the current bill imposes on them. I remind you, criminal provisions make up a large majority of the text of the bill, as if only the existence of a journalistic profession bothers someone, i.e. that journalists deal with their profession in a way that, in my opinion, the ruling elite does not answer. The vanity syndrome of the ruling structures is obvious when it comes to the public word, which cannot affect freedom of the press, freedom of information. On the other hand, it has to be said that both form and most of the contents of this law are really not bad. Most of the text is even literally copied from some other laws, so in a qualitative sense, the law in principle has the support of DSS MPs, because it follows the standards of Europe. Also, I believe that the incorrect content of Article 5, which under the term - special categories of persons, the classification of national minorities and ethical communities, but also disabled and disabled persons. The Law on Public Information of the Republic of Croatia, signed by Franjo Tudjman, and today it is exactly 11 years old, was adopted, leaves for national minorities more space, as well as for other social and cultural groups not mentioned in this bill and not covered. Prime Minister, Mr. Zarko Korać, at the meeting of the Committee on Culture and Information yesterday, opposed the pressures that TanjaUG and "Borba" continue to finance themselves from the budget, asked: "Who's "The Fight" still buying, who's still reading the fight. I would like to answer the question, whether it is referred to a remittent of newspapers such as "Clas Crazy", "Libertate", "Russian Letter" and others, which are also financed from the state budget, or the province of Vojvodina. It would be correct to open a competition for all media, at the same time under the same conditions, without engaging in an assessment of what and how much he buys and reads, watches or listens. As proposed by the amendment to Article 13, we believe that state authorities should have a way of objectively and impartially getting to know public opinion through the national news agency, which would not have any monopoly and advantage in publishing that information, and which would be regulated by a special law, as we have foreseen by the amendment. So, the DSS will support this bill in principle, with several principled remarks that we have translated into amendments that my colleagues have already talked about. In the end, in order to explain our position in the shortest time, I would quote a title from one of today's newspapers: "Better to have it than not." Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-15-0.u28531	The word is by MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic, followed by MP Dragan Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-15-0.u28532	Ladies and gentlemen, let there be justice, so let the world go to waste, often says Minister Batic here. We say, "Let there be freedom in Serbia, and then there will be justice and prosperity and pleasure among the citizens, and the world will not be destroyed." What we have here as material should be a law that will regulate some public information relations in Serbia. There is no free and democratic society without freedom of information. Indeed, what is written in the opening provisions, in the first few members of this law, is widely supported by the majority of MPs, and certainly by the MPs of the SRS. This part of the text is as if it was copied from the SRS program. The right to public information, free information and information in the interests of the public, that public information is not subject to censorship, of course it is all a wish and a Serbian radical. Is that so today? Could something like that happen in this Serbia at all? No law will help in this area, until those who are in power break out of their heads that television is not because they would be photographed and tell their mom they are beautiful and smart, that the paper is not only heard, but that they should convey the views of all those Serbian citizens that they sent through their representatives in the Serbian Parliament to speak and represent their views and interests on their behalf. The law abolished after the red revolution sanctioned some behaviour in the field of public information. It could not be slandered for no reason, without evidence, that there could be something out of the lives of the citizens, first of all, and then politicians and those in the state bodies, unless there was evidence for it. It was forbidden to broadcast and re-air programmes of some intelligence services of countries that bombed Serbia and participated in an aggression against Serbia. It was a law by which hundreds worked, and perhaps more, 200 private TV stations, and there are 15 in Nis alone. Many radio stations worked, many newspapers went out. In these newspapers and on these TVs, you could hear the worst attacks on the government of the Republic of Serbia, on party politicians who committed the government of the Republic of Serbia, and only a small number were punished, not because they criticised the government, but because they were false, lies and slanders that could not be proved. I read in the paper a statement by the Prime Minister and some ministers, it is desirable to criticise the government but it must be moderate, with a dose of some moderation, it must not be harsh attacks, because the government must take care of all of us. I say, the basic job and duty of MPs of opposition MPs is that the sharper they are criticising the government, the harder they are to bring it in order to do as it fits the interests of all Serbian citizens. I'm reading article 36. The bill that says there must be an assumption of innocence. I agree, no one is guilty until proven otherwise, and the burden of proving guilty is not on him whom they accuse, but on him who accuses. Here, we have cases, the Minister of Agriculture instead of taking care of the price of fertilizers, about the low ransom price of live cattle, he finds murderers, he priors, these have done so, this is how much money he replaced, Nenad Canak also, Vladan Batic; then Orlic comes forward, too, wait; gentlemen, let the judicial authorities do their part, and then some means of public information sign the name and name of whoever did it, and not to say someone did something, something he did, must know the name and name. It is suspected that this law will bring about something new in the media area. I think there will still be two sides. One makes the government of the Republic of Serbia, it will be absolutely privileged, its people will say - don't publish this, don't do this. The government of Serbia's Information Bureau will do its job in the field of information, and journalists will unfortunately have to write against their consciences as well. But let there be freedom in Serbia and the world will not fail, and freedom will be very soon, there will be new elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-15-0.u28533	The word has been given by MP Dragan Lazic, after which MP Djura Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-15-0.u28534	Ladies and gentlemen, as far as the information law is concerned, a lot has been said by the head of our parliamentary club and colleagues from the Democratic Party of Serbia. What I couldn't hear from the introductions, unfortunately he's not present right now, is what the status of part of state television in Kosovo and Metohija is and what the status of the Unity Press House is. They are an important and important detail as the only segment of our country in the area of Kosovo and Metohija and should take care of their status. In fact, the RTS house in Kosovo and Metohija until 1999 had about a thousand workers, they were employed in different sectors of radio and television. They're all over Serbia now, you don't know where who's who. They only gather in Zvecan and in Prokuplje. There is a Radio-Television "Toplica", which in some ways re-emissions or broadcasts an animal-interest programme in Kosovo and Metohija, as visible as possible, and for an animal that gravitates those parts. We have so far received no confidence from the government of the Republic of Serbia, except what exists through the Kosovo and Metohija Coordination Centre. I think it takes their status to be resolved in due course, so they don't wander what kind of status they have. I fully understand the need for rationalization and some kind of professionalization within RTS. When this house was built and built in its time, it was built on quite different criteria and for a completely different space that was to be covered. However, the situation is different now, and their status should be resolved. There are many single mothers, whose husbands died at battlefields across the former Yugoslavia and Kosovo and Metohija, at the time of NATO's armed intervention, so their status is not resolved either. They need help. As far as the Unity Press House is concerned, the house is now represented, unfortunately, with a week-long edition. Namely, the paper comes out once a week on Mondays. It is the only information that can reach Kosovo and Metohija. I think that this team of people knows best what's going on down there, how to keep the public informed and how the public should be directed at certain information. However, they experienced at one point and some kind of transformation, as I recall, sometime before the 1998 war itself. Namely, the Unity News House was kind of privatized. Through SRJ's Official List or through the official messenger, Serbia could be read that five people from the Unity Press House privatised the paper for no more than 5,000 dollars. In the meantime, however, there were denials in the official messenger, where they are no longer the owners. Behind the house, as the only organiser, is the Serbian Parliament, it needs to deal with the list, to resolve their status. To date, I have no edifying knowledge that the status of the Unity Press House in Pristina has so far been dealt with in the right way. Promises are coming from the Coordination Centre and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Unfortunately, that's all it all comes down to. I expect that, in due course, the Government of the Republic of Serbia finally resolves their status, because it is in the interests of both the Serbian states and the entire population, both the people of Kosovo and Metohija, that the paper comes out not only once a week, but that it comes out at least three or four times a week, which could roughly satisfy some of the needs of informing our citizens. What I wanted to deal with for a few moments is the way to edit in our lists. Obviously, it's not a problem with information and the law. The law can be good, it can be better and it can be complemented, and it can never be perfect, but it always remains a fundamental problem, which is the problem of editorial policy. In fact, we continue to slave that editorial policy depends heavily on the ruling nomenclature. It's happened before, unfortunately it's happening now, and if someone's trying to hide behind everything, behind a state of emergency, I don't think that's the right solution. I will remind you of what was happening in the area of Kosovo and Metohija and how much in this editorial sense we were wandering in the selection of the term to be called. Let's say 1981, when demonstrations broke out in Kosovo and Metohija, they were then called counter-revolution. When the West heard of the term "contrarevolution", of course everyone was thrilled; of course not, it's a counter-revolution against the communist nomenclature. It means she contributed to them. Instead of calling it the real name, as it was called much later, and I'm afraid it was really late, it was an armed rebellion, which later turned into pure and classical terrorism, a terrorist attack on the state integrity of the then SFRY, and later the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and Serbia. The second term accepted at that time is "eredentism". Iredentism essentially means joining all Albanians to the mother country. We accepted the Albanian Academy of Science's term then, then the Kosovo Academy of Sciences and all that was used for years. Someone liked that. The right term was to be used, which is secessionism. We use that again 20 years later. We've always tapped in place, instead of calling the right term any phenomenon. A little closer, in 1996, when there was "Bliss" and "Storm" in Croatia, then I lived in Pristina and received a call from the Golish relay, where I was told that they were watching a direct transfer of Croatian forces, or the National Guard Assembly to Knin. When the Croatian chess and flag is highlighted on the Knin Fortress, none of our people, none of our official TV, from all newspapers, have made the right news. And while everyone was watching the chess shop on the Knin Fortress, believe it or not, I remember until today that "Politics" had published the news on the first page, instead of Knin falling, "the Supreme Command of the Republika Srpska Army has moved to a reserve position". We are constantly enslaved by some kind of euphemism. After that, we wonder why. That's what's happening right now in an emergency situation. We're witnessing that some of the papers are banned because of some of the inscriptions. That's justifiably an emergency. I will remind you, in 1999, when the state of emergency was introduced in the area of Kosovo and Metohija, no single Albanian paper was banned. Everyone went out at the same time, everything could be read, everyone could find out. This is what's going on with us. All right, people, is it possible that our citizens should learn the truth through the Zagreb National or through another list from Slovenia without being able to publish anything here in some of our newspapers?
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-15-0.u28535	The People's Messenger Đura Lazic has the word, followed by MP Branislav Blazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-15-0.u28536	The Honorable Presidency, distinguished colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, before I begin to present on the bill's proposal, only to correct my last name, counterpart Dragan Lazic, that in 1999, Kosovo and Metohija, there was no state of emergency, but there was a war situation throughout the country because of NATO's aggression on our country, not NATO intervention. We are all witnessing that we have been missing the public information law for almost two years, which causes a lot of problems in the field of information. It has long been discussed about this law, it has long been about preparing this law and it was natural to expect us to get a valid and comprehensive text, which will regulate everything in the field of public information. We got, in my opinion, only ideological law that can contain elements of similarity to information. However, it is known that information can be true or false, but it cannot be similar and unmatched. It was at the time of Broz and the communists, so when some information came out that wasn't responding, unsuitable, then the committees hired to pick up that newspaper or that paper with a construction cart just so they didn't get the information to the citizens. I guess we won't be introducing similar and unmatched information into some of the provisions of this law. I was led to this thinking by Article 3 in the attitude of 1st or one syntagma - with due regard for circumstances. What is meant by these words? So these are special circumstances that a journalist and editor have to take care of. Deputy Prime Minister Korać said something about it, that these are some special circumstances when journalists rush to write information, to hand over the text and so on. Since I've been doing this job for years, I've been eating press bread, I can say that the responsibility of journalists and editor-in-chief differs to a certain extent. The editor-in-chief can't verify the information. It is the journalist who learns information, checks, determines facts and places information, so we need to resolve the issue of responsibility of journalists and editors. As for this syntagma - appropriate to the circumstances, if due to particularly urgent circumstances a journalist has to publish a news or report, and circumstances cannot prevent him from giving a later review, analytical text, comment or the like. In my view, it is also an absolutely unacceptable position of Article 13, which concerns the question of the founder of the public vote. In this regard, everyone has the right to establish a public voice, even foreigners, except for state and state institutions. I think we need somewhere to protect the state's interest. The special question is so-called A ban on hate speech. In this provision, I don't think there's anything new but text - "because of their sexual commitment. "But at the same time, this proposal does not prohibit hate speech against members of other political parties. So, according to the bill, more than hate speech is protected by homosexuals or lesbians than by other parties. The authority that regulates the right to respond and the right to a correction I think is far more concise and concisely given in the earlier law, and therefore I think this argument is very fragmented, very imprecise and it is necessary to maintain the provision of earlier laws. As for Article 32, it regulates the right for journalists to freely organise professional associations and that's fine. However, I think it is Neopondo to add a new position and oblige journalists' associations to make up, that is, that they have a code that will contain rules and behaviours of work. I even think that these provisions in the press code are much more binding and more morally affecting journalists as professionals than certain provisions of the law. That's why I think we should accept the SPS amendment, which we submitted to this article, in order to supplement the text of this law. The last thing I'd like to suggest and make, it's article 100. It's a bill of law. This article lists all the laws which cease to apply in force under this law. So, this law is trying to replace and take over all the matter from the entire public information system, and since it is missing in some areas, there will be no law under which a new record will be established. So a time vacuum is created and it eliminates the right to register new texts. I think we need to find a way to eliminate this vacuum.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-15-0.u28537	The word has a folk MP Branislav Blazic, followed by Milos Nesovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-15-0.u28538	Ladies and gentlemen, we have before us a law on public information, which should show the degree of democratisation of society, human freedoms, civil rights, and, most comically or tragically, as you will, we bring it in the conditions of complete civil rights and freedom -- in the conditions of emergency. We bring it in when there is no transmission of assembly sessions, when it's completely dark in the media in Serbia. Someone here said there was better law than no law. We had essentially a very good law on public inorcision. He has been criticised as being repressive by those who wanted to get money from abroad can pay and talk about what he wants and write about his own state, his own people, in conditions of threatening NATO-Pax aggression. We had this law and we abolished it in early 2000. We've had no law for two years. Today, we are offered another law here, but essentially public information, which we have in Serbia today, is primarily based on media and political manipulation of the masses. Will this law change that? It certainly won't, because there are two reasons that exist. One is that this law obviously doesn't interest the government too much, here is Mr. Korac now arrived, and Mr. Minister has a Committee on the Protection of Sremski Karlovci. More important is the Committee for the Protection of Sremski Karlovci than the Law on Public Information, and it was signed by Dusan Mihajlovic, the police minister. There's something about freedom that big can't be said. There are two reasons why public information is somehow a political manipulation of the masses in our country. One reason is that journalists, primarily because of money, are often inclined to submit their opinions to other people's opinions and their opinion that they are going to the centres of political power. These Vineyards certainly spit on their press code, they don't deserve to deal with this profession. The second reason I think that today's part of media manipulation is because we have very high pressure from political powers on the media. The situation is absurd, the private media are the most regimeal in our country. We have Pink and BK TVs that are fantastically regimeal. We've got Pink filming the collapse of a mob mall on Schiller Street, showing that he's collapsing because he's been illegally built, and as far as we know, Pink's been illegally built. However, when it comes to manipulation and the use of the media for political purposes, it does not matter whether it is illegally or legally built. Therefore, the essence of this comparison and the measure of whether we will pass the law is to measure whether public information rights are more important than the right of a person to protect himself from slander, from misinformation, and we are now allowing a shift to that side that is more important to have information. It would be all right if that public information were true and timely. However, we in Serbia, given the full politicisation of the space, not only media, but Serbia's total space, for a long time, will not have much longer.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-15-0.u28539	The word is by MP Milos Nesovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-15-0.u28540	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Vice-President of the Republic of Serbia, I would like to begin my discussion on the law on public information by reason of its adoption under the urgent procedure proposed by the motion, citing in the first instance the current moment in which the Republic of Serbia was found after the murder of the Prime Minister and the introduction of the state of emergency, which is prescribed and certain restrictions and in the field of public information. The intention is to avoid further deepening of chaos in the media sphere and to prevent further harmful consequences for citizens without delay. This conclusion concludes that just the current government, the government and the resolution ministry, bear a huge responsibility for the hahaotic media sphere, as well as for the irrefutable fact that at this point, we are at least at the minimum of the conditions in our public information, which could also encourage democratic processes. All that has done in this very important area of social life so far is to pass the Law on the termination of the Public Information Act of 1998, which means that the government has done little for more than half of its mandate in this area. And when it finally joined the legal arrangement of this area, announced two years ago, for which SPSabsolutely - for, it seems, in conditions of emergency, by emergency procedure, and at a session without TV transmission. That fact, we wanted to admit it or not, significantly devalues the intention of establishing assumptions about the creation and development of a democratic and open society. But it is only a segment of our one-sided media sphere, where pluralism is an idea, opinions and interests that died, and without a broad democratisation of relations, it can hardly change a much more quality law than this one, offered to MPs for adoption. It is clear that the current rule, namely the narrow majority in this House, is ahead of great responsibility and when it comes to public information. It is obvious that only the future time, not to say the first days after the suspension of the state of emergency, will show how truly attached it is to Article 10. The European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms is called upon in the draft law, and it provides for the right of everyone to freedom of information. The question is how much power is ready for such a turn, if a huge number of media, due to high pressure, has given up fighting for an open and concrete market and has accepted censorship and self-censorship without resistance. Or, for example, can we imagine our reality by applying Article 36? The proposal for a law on public information, that no one in the public opinion should be marked by the perpetrator of any criminal act, that is to say to the guilty or responsible before the judicial decision or by a competent authority. Someone will say, whoever breaks the law will be punished. It would be okay if the reality today (not only for emergency conditions) was quite different, because of the fact that it became a practice for the media, almost without exception, to prejudge, putting themselves openly in the service of the government, i.e. parties and parties that participate in it. It has been particularly common and worrying that the highest state officials, ministers and other government members, party spokesmans, are ahead of it, as the media publishes without any selection. That is why I am skeptical that this law, in the conditions of open pressure on the media, will be a more significant incentive for the development of democratic processes, as well as for highly professional and responsible journalism. My opinion is that the current position of the media is much worse than for example. October 5, 2000. It's about pluralism of interest in the contributions that are being broadcast, that I'm not even talking about. I also find the arguments for such a claim in the increasingly frequent statements by our top government representatives, that the situation in the media is good, or finally good, which is probably to say by measure and in the interest of the government, i.e. national and state interests. I'd say the situation is not good and because of the fact that the government overly praises the media, of course not just for that. If before 5 October there were state media, or regime media, and there were, and there were usually mentions of RTS, "Politics", "Borba", Pink Television, BK and perhaps some more, at that time there were much more so-called. opposition and self-proclaimed freemen. It's well known to everyone. What is the situation today; as for information shows of state and local radio and TV stations, as well as a contribution to the press, as if they were made by an editor and several journalists. The authoric texts replaced the statements, guests at local and state TV stations were the same, vice-presidents of the government and ministers, the same questions, the same answers, everything was uniformly and strictly controlled. Secondly, a different political opinion is becoming increasingly rare, and when it is heard, it is presented in such a way that nothing significant is said by it, or that it is completely disabling and compromising the policy contrary to the ruling one. There is a rare impression that the conditions of war in 1999, at the time of NATO's aggression on our country, were more liberal than the present, not only due to the state of emergency, but to general conditions and trends in all areas. Of course, and in the sphere of public information. In such an atmosphere, personal attitudes and interests are identified with national and state, which most media, especially those of the most influential, supports and affirmatives. That is why it would be in everyone's interest to provide these laws and essential conditions that nicoons can have a monopoly on publishing ideas, information and opinions in the public opinion. As with other SPS MPs, I will try to make the amendments to this law better, but in principle, I would like to point out that disabling the various types of political pressures and persecution of political opponents must find its place in the public information law, so that the media would not be the instrument of accounting the authorities with political inexperiences, that the law in groups of persons against whom it is forbidden to publish various informational content that promotes discrimination, hatred or violence due to the belonging of some race, religion, nation, etc., includes members of political organisations. I consider it necessary, because the fight with political inexperiences in the media is present in an extremely high degree and scope. If nothing else, the government should accept it for its own sake, that tomorrow, when the opposition is, it will be in a better position. I think we can agree with the fact that journalists are underprotected in the draft public information law. For example, the prosecutor's rights to seek a ban on the list have been highlighted, those written about but not journalists, employers and others who make newspapers and shows are protected. I'm also afraid that this extremely important area is too much, so we're going to need special prosecutors to work under the new information law, as we have both judges and prosecutors for organized crime.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-15-0.u28541	The word is made by MP Dragan Ljubojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-15-0.u28542	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the question arises as to why the Government at this moment, when an emergency is introduced in Serbia, proposes to the National Assembly the adoption of public information laws, when we are discussing in front of a semi-empty hall and without a TV camera an extremely important law that regulates the area of public information. In modern society, it is an extremely important area and a powerful weapon, primarily in political struggle. The government has explained in its explanation that chaos has ruled in this area since the abolition of the previous law in February 2001. The question arises why it took more than two years for the assembly procedure to enter the public information law. When you read carefully and look at this law, it contains nothing new. One part of the provisions of this law have been taken over from the old law, something is prescribed from some international conventions, some members are from a hill of valleys, so they don't look anything like anything. Two years without regulation in this area was enough for the executive authority to discipline almost all media houses in Serbia, primarily electronic, TV and radio stations, and then print media. What she failed to do during the period of chaos, or lawlessness, was several media that had not kept under her control and had the power to periodically, periodically publish something that did not contribute to the current government, managed to discipline during this period of emergency, by banning some newspapers and television, and some media had succumbed to pressures and started writing, publishing and informing the public in the way all the media did in 2001 and 2002, disciplined by the Communications Bureau, or by the executive authority. In Article 2 of the Law, you say that "no one should, in an indirect manner, restrict the freedom of public information". In the following text of the law, you do not provide for any sanctions for anyone who violates this provision of the law. The question is, what is the purpose of this article? The point is that it is declarative and that the question is whether and in any way it will be applied, that is, the sanctioned infringements of Article 2(3) of this Act will be. We've had opportunities so far in practice to see that it was done, above all by the executive. The editors of almost all major media are familiar with the March 12th meeting in the Serbian government, when they were invited to sign the Emergency Order, the main and responsible editors of the most important media, above all in Belgrade, said, I do not know what property Vladimir - Beba Popovic. Then the question arises as to who Article 9, which says, "The holders of state and political functions are limited rights to protection of privacy". What do you mean by state and political officials? And it's too broad a term. Does this apply only to the executive power, to the directors of public enterprises, to the members of the boards of directors of public enterprises, to the MPs, whether they are state officials, whether they are also related to political party officials, whether they refer to the presidents of parliamentary parties or to all parties in Serbia, whether they refer to members of some political party bodies? With this law, practically, you provide the means of public information to write whatever they want about opposition politicians, because you have given some earlier amendments to the law, above all to the ministries, great powers to the Ministry of Culture and Media, as you have called it, banned and narrowed down the possibility of writing about the current government, and the fact that you have announced the formation, I do not know whether it was formed, the commission to examine writing about former Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic back two years, it is practically a signal to all the media in Serbia that nothing, absolutely nothing, can write about any of the authorities in Serbia, because today, the day after tomorrow, someone can question their work, their writing and their behaviour for a period of one, two, three, five, ten years.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-15-0.u28543	The word has a folk MP, Sreten Mitrovica. The SPS Group shall have six minutes at its disposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-15-0.u28544	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, after two years of abolition, is finally ahead of us with a new legal text proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia on an urgent procedure. The proposal for a law on public information is very bad, autocratic. Certain provisions are so contradictory that even amendments cannot be corrected, which is evidenced by a large number of amendments. Such a serious law, which should regulate a very important area of social life, should never be found on the agenda during the duration of the country's state of emergency. The bill does not regulate a full range of media factors that are part of the media space, is not fully elaborated and contains all elements that should regulate relations in the media sphere. The law is not about public hearings and journalists, but about protecting those who are in power. On the basis of the principle that openness and transparency are a special form of public service provision, there is no obligation to publicise the work of the state body, i.e. this bill does not provide the public with work as one of the basic democratic obligations and rights. Democratic and responsible authorities have the duty to enable all citizens to access the right information and protect their personal data. Citizens should express and publish their opinions in means of public communication, guarantee the freedom of the press and other types of public information. The issue of newspapers and public information by other means should be made available to all. The law doesn't protect journalists and journalistic professions. There is no such thing as a journalist, his role and his rights, whether this law provides all journalists with the right to come to true information and timely, reasoned and effectively forward it to the citizens. The protection of personal data as part of the protection of fundamental rights and the freedom of individuals, in particular the right to privacy, in Article 42, shall be regulated as protection of information from private life, but the protection of privacy shall be denied and eliminated in Article 44, in particular in points 2) and (3), where the possibility of breach of privacy is opened by someone's discretion. Because if the person has given cause for disclosure of information with his behaviour, the question of what behavior is, who assesses the cause for publication of information that harms privacy. In the context of the ban on hate speech, I must stress that we in Kosovo and Metohija are faced with an unimaginable degree of hate speech in the media in Albanian to Serbia and the Serbian people. Since you are declaring yourself a democratic authority that has great support for the international community, it is necessary to ask for a consistent application of European standards to combat that hatred in Albanian media. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-15-0.u28545	The People's Messenger Vladimir Garčević has the word, and after him is the Messenger of the people, Toma Busetic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-15-0.u28546	The Honorable Presidency, honourable fellow Members of Parliament, Deputy Prime Minister Mr Korać, I have a general objection to the Presidency of the Assembly that the Assembly does not schedule on time, which for no reason puts MPs in a position not to be prepared, which is more and more telegramed, and I ask that you continue to keep an eye on the basic rules of the Rules of Procedure regardless of the state of emergency. For the past two years, an information law has been offered that has not answered all issues of modern journalism sufficiently at the discretion of the people's Socialists. One of the questions where we can and should think about who's making decisions so that there won't be any state media, who's the one who's going to protect the school program that you used to run perfectly and perfectly, Mr. Korać, as editor, who's the one who's going to offer education in the spirit of the people who live in this area? Will it be an investor from Germany, from America or from another country? Next, if we look at local autonomy, which bothers someone with the "Sremska novine", who unites all the municipalities of Srem, where we have the information weekly, why does it defend itself and who bothers? Come on, allow equality, that there is a single state television, that there are media to protect some basic, ultimately, and national rights of these citizens living in this area. I'm not sure, nor can I accept that it will best be done by the media under those who have the most money, whether they have acquired illegally or have come from abroad, so they'll buy the shares in it. In Article 9, you are talking about the privacy and privacy of the person. I think that there must be a precise separation of what the general interest is and that there is not a single judge or public prosecutor who could perform on the basis of this article what is the general interest that a journalist needs to publish to an individual. It would be good if you found something that you could count and where exactly you would be a guide to what is of general interest to politicians, any parties, any civil servants. Furthermore, in the members, I think it's 35th and 36th, it's said that no one should be found guilty in advance. Please, you from the Serbian government are constantly declaring until you find out; let us then act in accordance with this law, that neither a civil servant nor a party president nor a vice president should declare anyone guilty until proven guilty, but then we must act as such in the media every day. When a court sentences it, it's somebody's fault. Article 37 says - no publishing of ideas, information, etc. to encourage discrimination. How do you plan, Vice-President, to protect the Serbian people in the Bujanovac area of Presevo, not to list other areas, where he makes up maybe 2% or 3% of the population and is not a national minority, because it cannot be treated as not Serbia's territory, how will you provide its protection in the media in the area? You can't see it from this article. Please, there's something in nature, and there's a biologist, and that means when it comes to lesbians, when it comes to homosexuals, they have the right to exist, but they have the right and that biologically, what's normal, is treated on the scientific side and not subject to these criminal provisions. It's not hate language, there's something that's biological, there's something that's normal for that area and it shouldn't come under pressure. So, he can deal freely, but I can scientifically prove certain things that are not biologically normal, and we're going now, if someone says it's not normal, we're going to immediately declare him and punish him, even though it's not hate language. How will you treat it, whether the hate language - Vuco and the company around it, which every day in Serbia does what it does. Will you sanction, you as the Government of Serbia, such an NGO or its existence. I think we should get in the way of that. Therefore, this law does not offer everything, and since the 40th member, it could have been one member - it is punished on this basis and on this and that, for that and for that, and in other criminal laws there is regulation, and not this much writing for writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-15-0.u28547	The word has the People's MP Toma Busetic, time available for two minutes and that is the last registered speaker.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-15-0.u28548	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is unacceptable that such an important law, public information law, is adopted and brought to terms of emergency and conditions when there is no TV transmission. However, Deputy Prime Minister Zarko Korac said the public is not turned off, regardless of whether there is no television. However, it is quite clear that the public is excluded and that we will see very quickly, how soon we will see it tomorrow in the means of information there will also be a full presentation of Deputy Prime Minister Zarko Korać, President Bojan Pajtic, in part Mihajlova, and when it comes to the full opposition, there will be one half-prosecution - the opposition who knows which time did not agree with the bill. Since I've only got a little time, I'd only look at two questions. First of all, this is a fact group of members on the ban on the distribution of information, we think that this is kind of preventive censorship, because these provisions have nothing to do with it, or better say, are in stark contrast with European models and standards, because, according to the European model, there is no ban on newspapers, but there are only concrete responsibilities for specific individuals and concrete guilt. I can't ban the paper from being obvious without any valid evidence. For example, these days, perhaps the only list that has not been a pro-government list has been banned, they say, due to co-operation with criminal groups. Maybe it's true, and maybe it's not. What if it's proven over time that it wasn't true? Who's going to be responsible for that? Because citizens are deprived of certain information. Or, when it comes to the provisions of Article 30, which says that a journalist cannot stop a working relationship because of a public opinion, unless it is in conflict with the editorial concept. How do you define an editorial concept? In what way? Does this mean that if a journalist submits a text that the editor disagrees with, he can get fired, regardless of whether the text is published. Do these provisions mean that the editor can force the journalist to publish texts that have no foothold and have nothing to do with the truth? (President: Two minutes. ) For example, in 2000, we were in the list "Today", on March 24, or perhaps a day earlier, we had the following text -- with NATO bombs coming democracy into Serbia. What happens if there's a similar request from the editor to the press. We know that with NATO bombs there has been no democracy, there has been destruction of people, material resources. So all these solutions are possible under this law. I think the law is unacceptable to us, because it is in the function of absolute control of the government over the means of information.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-15-0.u28549	Since there are no more statements on the lists of parliamentary groups, before the opening of the original search, I ask if the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want the word? Yeah. ) The word is held by MP Dejan Mihajlov, president of the DSS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-15-0.u28550	Let's just make one more argument about this law. First, the general observation is that two years have waited for this, for one law concerning the media and the definition of the area of public information. Now that this law is being passed and discussed in this assembly, we do so without the presence of cameras, or direct transmission. I believe that this debate is one aspect and a contribution to the public debate on this law, which is extremely important and can be said by one of the key system laws for the construction of democratic institutions. That is why it is so important for citizens to be directly familiar with how some parties view the public information system in Serbia. In this way, by avoiding a public debate, I don't think you get it, and you won't get it at the quality of the law. On the contrary, I think the absence of a public debate will contribute to certain legal solutions being at the expense of the media and journalists, who will be well sanctioned by this law. For us, it is extremely important, we mentioned, that the law has a whole chapter where it regulates the rights of individuals in case one information or a series of news is compromised, and only one member is protected by journalists. Article 30 regulates the possibility of stopping the working relationship of journalists, which is rather controversial for us, because a part of the opinion is being introduced. The point of view is that if someone disagrees or disagrees with the opinion in the paper, they may be left without a working relationship. We believe that this is rather controversial and that in this way some kind of self-censorship is introduced into media houses and inter-renovators, its right to differing thinking, freedom of speech and everything else guaranteed by the Constitution. By introducing this provision, I think we've gone one step back from those other provisions that are good in this law and leave the press with the possibility of timely, truthfully informing. If our goal is true to all of us, can we come to the truth if we introduce a difference of opinion, that is, the possibility of someone being kicked out of work because he thinks otherwise. Is that the right way to get to the truth, if it's our goal to all of us? Of course not. Of course, by suppressing different opinions through the possibility or the threat of quitting, we're moving away from the truth and we're going to censorship. This law should not introduce a permanent state of emergency, but freedom in the public information system and allow timely, true information to be made available to citizens. This way, by this provision, it's all stalled. I'm asking the government, and I'm asking her to do a little change to the quality of this law. We're talking about one attitude, that's the attitude of Article 30, where this change would contribute enough to improve this law qualitatively. The second part of Article 30 is quite correct and it is precisely the necessary protection of journalists who want to deal with investigative journalism and the publication of true information. Here part of the views allows for a voluntary interpretation of the threat to the state, public interest and everything else, if there is a willingness to be abused. They leave it to someone who is the government or someone else to determine what the public interest is. I don't think that's good and that it's regulated by other laws, which is a state, which is the interest of the state, which is the institutions of the state, which is the order and should go from these interpretations of these provisions. Just because this debate is going as it is and without the public's presence, we are losing touch with journalists and journalists' associations, who have pointed out a number of objections. There are some seven, eight, nine objections to this text of the bill. And if this debate were public, that is, if there were a direct transmission, we would have communication, because I believe that this law is not only for us to apply, it will refer to journalists the most, so we need to consult everything and pass a law that will be widely accepted and satisfactory. Of course not everyone can always be happy. As Deputy Prime Minister Zarko Korac says, we have no intention nor can we pass an ideal law. The law can still be rewritten, unfortunately now only by the government and the government as a pronoun to react in the work. I think that would be good, and it would help to make this law with a much more qualified majority adopted. It is precisely to get the seal of a system law with great authority to regulate the area of public information in Serbia. Otherwise, we will go again through political agreements and voting, which will not contribute to the real regulation of the information sphere and will reopen the gap between the legislative authority and the journalists who participated in the writing of this law, but in that last step, they have somehow been skipped. They've been helped to have objections again. So it's one of the key members of this bill and it certainly needs to be changed. I have no doubt there must be a willingness, because otherwise we didn't do anything, and we did something comfortable with some earlier time. This law leaves the possibility that I am an editor of interpretation of what opinion is, is not an opinion, whether it is expressed or not, what is an editorial policy, whether every medium, whether every newspaper publishes on the first page or once a month, this is our editorial policy, so that everyone knows that it is in accordance with this editorial policy of relations. How can a journalist be responsible for an opinion, if the editor is the one who edits the newspaper and publishes it, how can he express his opinion if the editor doesn't release it in the paper. So the responsibility is both to the editor and to the one who edits. Thus, this first position of Article 30 is somewhat contradictory with the position of the other Article 30 as well. It just needs to be erased as such and left only attitude 2 to be an entire member. In this way, we would make the most of the freedom of information. Otherwise, information should be free in Serbia and there are only some special conditions when it can be changed. I expect the government to adopt this and thus contribute to the adoption of this law in this assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-15-0.u28551	Are any of the other presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups answering for a word? The word is from MP Zarko Obradovic, president of the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-15-0.u28552	Dear Presidency, fellow Members of the People's Parliament, Mr. Korac, we've been having a debate over this bill for several hours. It seems to me that MPs of the SPS and other MPs of the opposition, but also MPs who support the bill, have said a lot of what is missing from this law. There are many objections, many views, many very concrete amendments and additions of certain members. A lot of debaters said this law wasn't good. However, today we are neither of you nor in the past days from other people, who have tried to defend this law in public, have heard the answer to a very simple question: why is this law being passed under emergency conditions? What is it that this law contains and causes such a social need to be brought under conditions of emergency? For two years, the government couldn't prepare the bill. We heard that there were several proposals, several drafts, that several times there was an open debate in different places. Last night, through RTS, we had an opportunity to hear that representatives, let's say, of the Esnaf associations, believe this law has its own shortcomings. What is it that made the government suggest that the Serbian Parliament adopt this law at a time of emergency? It was seen at a time when the law was not a media space was used as a function of interest and policy of government and DOS. That's not unknown. I believe that journalism in the previous two years, especially in some cases, has fallen to very low branches, that of the promised attitudes, principles, references to principles, almost nothing has been done. I must say, the government has also made a contribution to this, precisely because it has not passed the law. All you can think of is media hacks, inscriptions, unverified information, convictions, everything is done, and the law was not. So we don't have an answer. Please, if you can, tell us why this law is passed under emergency conditions. And in these conditions there is no freedom of information. There are a number of restrictions. Why does the law have to be passed today, tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, while the state of emergency is going on? Another thing, which we also haven't heard the answer, why is the law on public information adopted without the possibility of citizens of the Republic of Serbia hearing what MPs think of it? And you and we both know he's talking, that a session is available to the public through journalists, has no essence. Journalists can, in order to deny us, the representatives of the opposition, to give a broader report from today's rally. For the past month, they haven't done it. It would also be hypocritical for them to change their approach to this law. We've said a lot of things that we think this law contains and shouldn't be there and why this law needs to be changed. Article 31 A press secret; it might be better to call it "Protect the sources of information." It states that a journalist is not obliged to disclose information related to the source of information unless the data relate to a criminal offence, or perpetrator of a criminal offence for which a sentence of at least five years has been threatened. We know these are serious crimes. But what about that information that doesn't fall under those crimes, and for politics, it's important. I'm talking about information of importance to people in the sphere of politics, in the sphere of this social life. Such information, which does not fall into serious crime, can produce negative consequences. That's a fact. Will these individuals be able to defend their integrity, personal, professional, political and other? I don't think so. The law provides a lot of ground for volunteer interpretations. Editor, the owner of the list will be the one who finally decides on the fate of a lot of things, primarily information. They're responding, but that responsibility is on a very long stick. By the time this kind of responsibility is reached, many waters will pass by to Saul and to the Danube. Today I mentioned a member of the law talking about the presumption of innocence. I must say, it's a good member of the law. Good, if the law applies. If this law applies to what happened during the emergency, then, believe me, there will be a lot of lawsuits, because I think the media simply jumped out of the framework set by the Emergency Implementation Regulation. They simply took a step to the right, to the worse and did a lot of things that the editors would be ashamed of. I was in a hurry today, so I haven't had time to say, for us SPS members, the best indicator of how unrespectable or misused the state of emergency regarding this relationship with political opponents is the title of one newspaper. When there was a statement from the interior ministry -- otherwise it was written by someone who deals with politics, not a member of the interior ministry, and we Socialists rejected it as tentuous and something that had nothing to do with us -- the title on the first page said, "We killed for the needs of the Socialist Party of Serbia". You will admit, there is no greater example of the violation of this member or of the abuse of media, public information and the right to free information and to transfer information. I must say that for this and other matters, we have asked very clearly that the media convey the position of the Socialist Party of Serbia, to tell the citizens of Serbia that we are looking for the truth, the truth and only the truth, and for that and other things. We think Serbia needs the truth, however bitter this truth can be, otherwise as a society we cannot take a step forward. We asked to establish the truth about all the events, all the crimes, all the murders before and after October 5th. That we, as political factors and as citizens, face the consequences of it, so to whom it is. In any case, none of the media found it appropriate to convey that attitude. About hate speech; absurdly, this member, in the framework of banning the publication of ideas, information and opinions that encourage discrimination, hatred or violence against a person or a group of persons because of their belonging to a group, race and religion, did not also include the membership of a political organisation. My fellow Socialists have repeatedly reiterated that this state of emergency may have shown the need for such a formulation to be contained in Article 37. The law. We are still most interested in politics in Serbia and it is undisputedly dominated by all spheres of social life. We think this provision was supposed to be an integral part of this article. It is not the capital progress of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and of this bill in the fact that discrimination is prohibited because of sexual commitment. We have looked at the previous law, it differs in this article compared to the current one only in terms of discrimination because of sexual commitment. We think this was simply supposed to be added. Otherwise, you can say anything about a political opponent, but none of it will publish anything. Members of the publication of information from private life and personal records undermine each other. Practically, they provide no protection for personal and private life and introduce the arbitration of undefined groups, which should assess whether a violation of the right to private life or personal record has been committed. Perhaps the true character of this law and its essence shows a member of 57 who contains exactly 19 items, the reasons why an answer should not be published. I think there are formulas here that can absolutely be interpreted as arbitrarily as to whom it suits and that it won't be possible to get always an adequate answer. Point 4 - Justice case. In those parts that I mentioned, about crimes under five years, and not serious crimes, the question is how long it takes for the court to rule, and in political life, social life, it will be a late reaction and not satisfactory to get either one in question, nor will it be in a situation to answer. In any case, I think this law has long been announced and has not justified the story it followed, that simply the law does not have the content to qualify as modern, transparent, etc. We don't think this law will simply improve the entire area of public information in Serbia. Socialist Party of Serbia MPs cannot support such a law.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-15-0.u28553	Do any of the presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? The word comes from MP Zoran Cirkovic, president of the New Serbia parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-15-0.u28554	Madam President, Mr. Vice-President of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as far as this law is concerned, I'm going to be brief, and I'm going to make some telegraph announcements. So I'm going to say what the good parts of this law are. 1. The law has finally been passed, and it has long been announced and it really regulates an important area of relations in the seventh power. 2. The law is mostly supported by a journalist's brand and that means it's good if most journalists and people of the trade support it. 3. The law is rather liberal and I think it will meet its goal to expand the space of media freedoms, and of course requires greater responsibility for a publicly spoken word. Now I'm going to list two basic, crucial objections to this law. It's not good that the law is passed at a time of emergency. It's not good for affirmation of this law, good relations in the press industry and in the field of public information. The second thing, also very significant, and in my previous presentation, I missed out on her, so now I'm doing it, is that the law hasn't settled the issues of the media-based procedure, and that's his great lack of resources. We think it's a serious flaw of this law, because the law needs to be comprehensive so that the whole information matter is arranged in one place. I will stick to the promise that I will be brief, I am finishing this, and I am announcing that the New Serbia parliamentary group will support the adoption of this law in principle.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-15-0.u28555	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) I hereby conclude the initial search and, in accordance with Article 136(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. I would like to inform you that by the beginning of the review of the Amendment Bill, Members of the people: Zoran Krasić, Natasa Jovanovic, Vjerica Radeta, Milorad Mirčić, Dragoljub Stamenković, Stevan Kesejić, Veroljub Arsić, Branislav Blažić, Zlatan Jovanovic, Goran Cvetanović, Dragan Čolić, Ljubomir Kragović, Milovan Radovanović, Vitomir Plužarević, Dragan Slavka Pavlović, Lazar Marjanski, Petar Jojic, Slobodan Janjic, Dragan Ljubojević, Branislav Vakić, Srboljub Živanovic, Dragor Hiber, Golub Rajić, Together Dusan Cvetković and Đura Lazić, Dusan Lazić, Dusan Cvetić and Živodarka Dacin, together Sreten Mitrović and Djura Lazović, Dragar Lazić, Dragar Žir, Dragar Žir, Drago Živić together Rado Žršić, Rado Juljić, Mirić, Mirić, Mirić, Radko Žarić, Mirić and Radić, Radić, Radić, Radić, Radić, Radić, Radić, Radić, Radić, Radić, Radić, Radić, Radić and Rajić, Radić, Radić, Radić, Radić, Radić, Radić, Radić, Radić, Radić, Radić, Radić, Radić, Radić and Raj. The word is requested by the deputy president of the DOS parliamentary group, Serbia's Reform, MP Sinisa Mitrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-15-0.u28556	Dear Mrs Comic, distinguished fellow Members of Parliament, on the basis of Article 137, I propose that the debate in particular lasts for the longest three minutes and I suggest that the Assembly declare it. I would like to ask you to approach the quorum before the vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-15-0.u28557	I ask you to establish the quorum for the vote on the proposal of MP Sinisha Mitrovica. I find that we have a voting quorum and I put the motion to vote that the amendment debate lasts for a maximum of three minutes. For 94, against 84, of the 178 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the proposal of MP Sinisha Mitrovica, and the debate on amendments will take up to three minutes. The amendment to Article 1 was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-15-0.u28558	With this amendment, the Serbian Radical Party wants to specify the subject matter of the law as set out in the Constitution of guaranteed information freedom. We ask that this law regulate the freedom of information that enables the free formation and presentation of opinions and rights and responsibilities in the conduct of public information operations. In the first part of this introductory sentence, we're trying to determine what that should mean -- information freedom. Of course, we respect the proposal's insistence to correct what is in the Charter of Human and Minority Rights on freedom of information and the media poorly written, but the proponent obviously did not succeed in correcting this lack of opinion, while practically, if this amendment is adopted, we are promoting some of the standards that follow this part of the freedom of opinion of each individual. Of course, we are asking that a new attitude be added in the context of this change of attitude 1: "Everyone has the right to freedom of opinion and freedom to receive and communicate information and ideas". We put the word "idea" here, although I think the European Convention in another context uses the term "idea", and that it can all be covered by opinion and information. We ask that, as a substitute for the first, another position be inserted, that everyone is guaranteed the freedom of printing and breaking newspapers and other public messages, the freedom of production and broadcasting of radio and TV programs and the establishment of legal entities dealing with public information. This intervention is necessary for the simple reason why our Constitution, and the Charter and all international human rights documents say that everyone is guaranteed freedom of the press. A natural person can issue newspapers for this reason it is necessary to make this change in Article 1, because it practically introduces until the end of the sequences until now recognised standards, such as internal freedom of the press, freedom of expression and creation, etc.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-15-0.u28559	Are any of the authorized representatives answering for a word? There's a word from the MP Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-15-0.u28560	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, since we are in a state of emergency and that this is an excuse for a major emergency procedure for all these sessions of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly, it is indeed inappropriate to propose a five-minute delay in the debate following the amendments, taking into account that MPs saw the agenda this morning when they came to the Serbian Parliament, and they came because their colleagues from Belgrade invited them. The president of the assembly didn't find it appropriate or telegrams to send to the MPs, to know that they should come to the session without talking about what's on the agenda, so that's why we missed the deadline for the second item and we missed the deadline for the amendment. But let this already go to the heart of this democratic authority and the president of the National Assembly, and as for the amendment to Article 1, he went primarily in the direction of precision - what is it that this law should regulate in a more appropriate way, respecting constitutional provisions on public information. I will only contribute to what Mr Krasic said to add to that part of the Constitution, which guarantees all the establishment of public information funds, so that in this sense the third position of the amendment is corrected, that everyone is guaranteed the freedom of printing and breaking newspapers and other public messages, the freedom of production and broadcasting of radio and TV programs and the establishment of legal entities dealing with public information. When it comes to radio stations, we have a Law on Broadcasting which obliges us to be founders of legal persons, but when it comes to print media, the law would have to, respecting constitutional provisions, to allow natural persons to be the founders of public texts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-15-0.u28561	Any of the other authorised representatives come forward for a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He has the word National MP Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-15-0.u28562	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's not much of a pity, except for another one in a series of embarrassments for the current government, which Minister Lecic is not there, because he doesn't understand at all in this area. He went to some "round tables" several times on state TV, on central TV, on some shows, trying to explain why exactly this bill. However, he failed to convince us of the validity of such a defined second member, and therefore, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment requesting that the first position, as well as the second position, be changed in law. You said, "The public information is free and in the public interest." You have failed to prove to us, especially during the state of emergency, that it is in the interest, because that, too, you could not, nor could Branislav Lecic, as many ministers from the current government, to host 50 times on various information shows, to provide data from an investigation into the murder of Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic, and you could not, in such a way, abuse of public votes, which has been printed, which is electronic media, to deal with political inexperiences, to bring up a bunch of lies and nonsense. So we ask that this attitude change and say, "public information is free, and every kind of censorship is forbidden." This censorship has existed since the coming of DOS to power and your first man, what the Democratic Party, which is known to the entire bloc that calls itself DOS, Beba Popovic, is that it strives to make almost every second, especially on Pink TV, but also on other media with a state frequency, edits about informative space and the placement of a bunch of fiction and untrues, especially when it comes to the question of Dr Vojislav Seselj and SRS. We are asking for attitude 3 to be changed, so that the certain Mr. Beba Popovic and Branislav Lečić and Nebojsa Covic and Dusan Mihajlovic, and everyone else, can be properly punished for carrying out the untrue and to bear political and any other legal responsibility. Because if one is a representative of the government and is exposed in such a way and brings all these inventions to the public, it creates confusion amongst the citizens, it is normal for that to answer. That's why in this attitude that we're proposing says, "No one should limit freedom of information, and in particular they're forbidden: abuses of authority, rights, influence (and both influence) and control over the means of printing and disseminating public messages, over broadcasting and radio frequencies, and any other way that restricts the freedom to receive and communicate information." Since your younger colleague, Mr. Lecic, has not come to you, Mr. Korać, you will be able to tell him what you, as an MP of the SRS, is being told by Mr. Tomislav Nikolic, whom you have anti-worked for 90 days from the Assembly Hall, who is otherwise an expert for both the media and many other questions. Mr Tomislav Nikolic was called by Branislav Lecic, as a man who deals with certain predictions. He is not from Tarabic, and he is telling him, he is only an experienced politician, very big-time, seriously analyzes the situation, who is connected, who has ties to which criminal clan, and since he is not from Tarabic, he says Tarabics predicted that maybe one day the world will fail, but only those of the Vidic Mountains will survive, and that is where Mr Tomislav Nikolic, from the village of Bajcetina, from Vidic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-15-0.u28563	Any of the other authorised representatives come forward for a word? The People's Messenger has the word of Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-15-0.u28564	In article 2, you are reluctant to say that censorship is forbidden, arguing that public information is free and in the public interest. We're asking a question - what's in the interest, I guess only the public knows what's in her interest. There's always a group of people interested in some information. Here's an example - 330,000 members of the SRS need to know about the work of the SRS parliamentary group in this House, a million and 100,000 people are interested in the activities of the SRS, all those who voted for our presidential candidate, and the public can't know anything about us, because full censorship has been introduced. And how are you going to convince me or anyone now that censorship doesn't exist or that everything is going to change from the day you end the state of emergency, if you ever end it? You've been so intimidated by the media, the editors-in-chiefs, the media owners... Milka Marinkovic keeps throwing. ) Can I provide working conditions here or interrupt the session, so we can continue in the morning. I'd ask all those who want to take the floor to answer the word and to use the payphones, not the bench. I really can't talk like that.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-15-0.u28565	Any of the other authorised representatives come forward for a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP, Golub Rajic, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. The word has the People's MP Golub Rajic. Since 92 amendments have been submitted to the public information law, I ask the MPs to stick to the time we have established.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-15-0.u28566	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Vice-President, the proposal for a law on public information was proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia on an urgent procedure and during the duration of the state of emergency by the National Assembly. On Article 2, I have proposed an amendment to make this article clearer, because retaining the existing formulation implies that there is nevertheless a certain censorship which restricts and restricts the placement of truth to the public. Otherwise, we've already heard that, according to the Socialists, this completely ideological law is very restrictive, and it should legalize the existing state of emergency. He doesn't protect the press and that profession. Instead of pushing for true, timely, reasoned and efficient journalism, he obliges journalists to check their information with due regard to the circumstances. Otherwise, Article 2 of this law regulates the principles and freedom of public information, where public information is free, in the public interest and not subject to censorship. I suggested that the 2nd vote: "Censorship in public information is forbidden". I think this way the ban on censorship is better precise than the bill and it's better to say that something is forbidden than not subject to censorship. Also, in terms of the 4th of the same member, it's better and more precise to say "no" than "anyone." That attitude would read: "No one should put any physical or other pressure on the public record and its staff, as well as the influence set to distract them in the performance of the work." Also, in the last position of this member, it was regulated that "infringements of freedom of public information are decided by the court by an urgent procedure", which excludes the possibility of interference in this area by any other state or para-state authority. I suggest you accept this amendment and at least fix this law a little bit, and it is not about public opinion and journalists, but about protecting the ruling furniture from them. Nowhere is even said to be public and public work is needed.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-15-0.u28567	The word is made by Deputy Prime Minister Prof. Dr. Zarko Korac.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-15-0.u28568	Dear People's MPs, I understand the need to criticise the law. I was in opposition for ten years, sitting here in a bench. I have a longer opposition internship than some who sit here. I ate that bread, too. Yet it is illogical to quote everything that is written in the law, and then change the order of words and offer another formulation, and the same is said here. There have been amendments here, and we've adopted one number. As a representative of the government, I have adopted, and you will either vote on it or not. I think that makes the law better. I can't figure out that this is where it's proposed: "The violations of freedom of public information are decided by the court by an emergency procedure." Well, that's already written here. Then here it is suggested to say that censorship is forbidden. Yes, but it says here: "public information is not subject to censorship." That's the same thing. So no censorship, no censorship. There's one formula, one can do the other, but it doesn't change the essence. Members of the Parliament, the nature of my answer to you is that when amendments are submitted, you should make sure that it is a fundamental objection to this; let it not be essential, but not to change the order of words, and then attack my law. I have to say, if we're going to make this all the way to the end, whoever says the law is wrong, and in fact there's no other suggestion than to change the order of words or some small change, then he's giving recognition to me, to this law and to those who wrote it. In other words, the real amendment is when you suggest something quite the opposite of what it says here or what's really different. I respect the need to come out, to criticise, to talk about a state of emergency. I think I answered here, as far as I'm concerned, I'd like this to be directly broadcast by television. I say on behalf of the government. I said what circumstances led to an emergency and you all know it very well. Of course, these are the circumstances under which this is now happening. On the question, repeatedly, why now the information law: this law is addressed to the Serbian Assembly before an emergency is introduced. (A voice from the O.R.: March 27th) () When you received it as MPs, it was not mine, but it was directed earlier. On the government site of the Republic of Serbia, this law has been in place for a very long time. The government sent this bill well before the state of emergency. The law was completed before the emergency, long before that, was in public debate and nothing important changed compared to what came here. One thing is certain, if someone is unhappy with the way it is talked about his party, about its president, about the party's political stances, they are about to vote for this law. For the first time, this law provides a clear legal framework that sanctions the misuse of information, either in terms of providing incorrect, incomplete information or providing information at all. We need to be consistent. Do we want to criticise everything the government gives in principle, so it really doesn't matter what we give; or do we think that sometimes, even what the government suggests, which is politically unacceptable to us, which we don't support, can essentially be in the interest of that opposition political party. (President: Time.) ) This is what I said in the opening statement, I remain in order to take a careful look at this law and see if it would be useful for some who protest so much here at the state of information in Serbia. (Natasa Jovanovic, from the place: Replica. My amendment was misread. )
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-15-0.u28569	First came the word of the MP, Dr. Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-15-0.u28570	Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, probably before, as it is now, the government and the opposition are looking at things differently. You can't expect us to talk all positive about this law. And when there is, the opposition measures what it will and how it will say. We have repeatedly mentioned that there are members in this law who have their own quality, but I must tell you that we are deeply disappointed by what is happening in Serbia's media space, in public information over the past two years. It was said that the law was abolished, that it was restrictive, dictatorial, etc., to bring new, better, transparent. Two and a few years of it gone. Trained by these bad experiences, we criticise all those phenomena, because unfortunately we do not believe that these provisions will be applied in practice either. A fellow Golub Rajic mentioned it, we think it might be better this language, I mean, it doesn't mean I'm right, but we think and a colleague explained it. We will do so with other amendments, no offense, for some of these members we think it is best to delete them, but then we have that situation that we are not allowed to comment on such an amendment, because then the Legislative or some other committee will find a formal legal basis, or a business basis to abolish it. Believe me, you mentioned, we got this material on March 27th, so after the introduction or during the introduction of the state of emergency. I don't know what he looked like before, but he always takes the last version as something that's relevant. Finally, on the occasion of this amendment by fellow Golub Rajic, but also about the law, whatever it may be, it may be the best, but the handicap that is brought without direct transmission, Deputy Prime Minister, you understand, is the fact that it is brought at a time of emergency and without direct transmission, it is apriority bad. Here, now I have to quote Article 2 of this law where it says - the flow of information, freedom of transmission and so on. You take the last number of "Nin" or some other newspapers and you read -- every day in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, briefings are held, where the editors in charge and responsible come, agreeing on what to publish, how information is originally transmitted, the MUP, editors choose what to publish, and then what are we talking about here? I'm saying, the law as it is, it's just that we have certain weaknesses, but it has quality. It's not mentioned in the amendments, what we count on to be quality, and for what we think is wrong, that's what we suggested to change. We think this law gives too much ground for arbitration, that the journalist and editor-in-chief will have a heavy burden on their backs. Some journalists, in accordance with their ethical principles, and should adhere to them, and with a professional image, which should be owned, will simply be the deciding factor that will convey the question, answer and qualification, as well as everything else that goes with this story.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-15-0.u28571	Right on line, National MP Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-15-0.u28572	I went out to replicate Mr. Korach. Mrs. Comic, now you're back, on the left side of me and the pay phone, you have some windows that are pounding, but it's been said enough, but look for them to close, so we can continue to work normally. As for Mr Korać, the amendment that I submitted on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, so that you as a proposing - you said that the law is yours in the most part, that you proposed it on behalf of the Government and participated in its creation - you were consistent with the abuse, as censorship concerns, this is not a matter of mere exchange of words, because the attitude changes so to say - public information is free, and every kind of censorship is forbidden. So, it's not as if you're in your member of the finding, it's a ban that has concrete legal and legal consequences, because in order to remain consistent with that, we consider it to be, no matter who is in power, especially in a situation where the highest and most responsible representatives of the government abuse their position by exerting influence and pressure on the media, that this should be sanctioned by law, and that is the amendment that I have filed with criminal provisions. I think he is a 91st member who clearly determines the penalty, from 100,000 dinars to a million dinars for one who abuses his position as minister, as prime minister, as deputy prime minister, as MP of the ruling coalition, etc. At that time, we would not come to a situation where there is a large number of people, especially local media in Serbia, that in every city in Serbia, in a situation of emergency, there are some local committees that determine which teams will go, where political parties at press conferences, so every city happens to have a certain day in a week, next to a central conference held in Belgrade by Mr Tomislav Nikolic, the presidents of the district, municipal committees and of course no one should come, because there is a local committee that says - and what it is, but censorship - that can't go there, that there will be radicals to say this or that, and be sure, we've been doing this for the past 13 years and we will be doing it in the future, and we will speak the truth. That is why it is necessary for this amendment to be adopted, in order for everyone to be held accountable and in criminal terms to be fined and fined because of such pressure, because it deals with censorship, which is, in addition to the most serious crimes, in terms of promoting democratic principles, the worst possible act to put pressure on a journalist and to deal with it, and to force him to do censorship, to do as you command him, not his professional duty and his moral and professional codes.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-15-0.u28573	Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate coming forward for an amendment to member of the 2nd People's Council member, Golub Rajic? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was tabled by the People's Parliament of the Verse of Radeta. The amendmentr wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-15-0.u28574	My amendment to Article 3, both on the first and second points, Mr. Korach, you'll agree, I hope, is really essential. I suggested that in the first position of Article 3, the words "with due regard for the circumstances, check its origin, truth and completeness". Instead, it should stand - "fully and reliably establish the origin and verify the truthfulness of the information". I haven't been able to explain to myself what special attention is appropriate to circumstances, whether the writer, or the author of this text, meant this state of emergency, or whether it's something general. You predicted, I assume, that by applying this law and applying the law package that you passed last week, the state of emergency will continue as long as these laws are in force. I was even thinking it might be possible for this member to be the result of a ban on the National List. I reached the conclusion on the basis of a statement by Minister Lecic, who said on one television show that "Nacional" published a horoscope on March 12th, where for a horoscope sign, I think a lion, but in any case the horoscope sign of former Prime Minister Djindjic, wrote that members of that sign should make sure that they were threatened, something in that sense, something in any case that had no support in the law, and you had no law. Then I wondered what would have happened if someone's black cat had run over that day in front of the Prime Minister's car? Would you then, in accordance with your laws, arrest the man who owns that cat? In the second position of Article 3, I proposed an amendment solution to replace the point with a comma at the end of the text and add the text - "and bear full responsibility for the information transmitted". This part of the amendment refers to information published by one newspaper in another newspaper, without first confirming the truthfulness and accuracy of that information. For example, a chronicle for Zemun, a note that appears twice a month with a circulation of 2,000 copies, if I can finish the sentence, the text from the chronicle for Zemun conveys "Blic Nenjas" which has a much larger circulation. Of course, the consequences are, unfortunately, I don't have time to finish; it's more drastic when it's published in this paper without checking, and I hope that's going to end with my colleague Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-15-0.u28575	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? Yeah. ) The word is held by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-15-0.u28576	Ladies and gentlemen, these basic principles are contained both in Articles 2 and 3 of the declaration of character. The promoter would like to get the impression that public information is free, journalists have appropriate obligations and duties and to protect the interests of the person to whom it is written. Actually, it's not, because there's a lot of vague terms, so I'd like to, Mr. Korać, to instruct you that the decimal in the legal norm has its own weight. So don't be angry if there's a reverse order of words or something like that in the amendments. It all has a meaning. This, of course, should be done by someone professional at the Secretariat of Law, but you seem to be passing the laws outside the Secretariat of Legislatives. Only very bad translations of some of the texts you use when making the law. You're asking the press to check the origins of the information with due regard to the circumstances. You think it's enough for the information to come from the government, so it's appropriate to the circumstances and that the information is true. Like, now all kinds of humanitarians are going to prisons. They say their report on the condition they found, whether they were beaten, whether they were abused, I will not say whether or not they were, will only deliver it to the Serbian government. So, journalists will only be able to inform themselves from the Serbian government. As a citizen, I seriously doubt it because there are people who are released from custody who can tell anyone on the street what's going on. They train a man in a vest, beat him over a vest, hurt his internal organs, and he's nowhere blue. Don't talk about it, using some terms that can't be interpreted, to check, to just get the impression that something is democratic, but it's all quasi-democratic. I don't know if I've been able to convince you, but when we're looking for an outcast or a change of some terms in order to make a point, know that it's in the best interest. I'm telling you, we've worked really, really hard working on this law to fix it. I ask you to observe this way all of our amendments that we have submitted to this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-15-0.u28577	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. If not, we finish work for today, Tuesday, April 15. We will continue tomorrow, at 10.00 p.m., by discussing the amendment to Article 3 submitted jointly by MPs Dusan Cvetkovic and Djura Lazic. Two notices. The session of the Legislative Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will be held today at 6:00 p.m. on the ground floor, and tomorrow at 10.00 p.m. in the Chamber of Presidents of the Assembly is scheduled to meet with the president of parliamentary groups. Thank you.
